# CC-CEDICT 衍生的中→英釋義表，供 rime.lua 二分搜尋使用。
# 來源：https://www.mdbg.net/chinese/dictionary?page=cc-cedict （CC BY-SA 4.0）
# 格式：繁體詞<TAB>釋義（最多三個義項，以分號分隔）。依 UTF-8 位元組排序，勿手動重排。
11區	(ACG) Japan (from the anime "Code Geass", in which Japan was renamed Area 11)
2019冠狀病毒病	COVID-19, the coronavirus disease identified in 2019
21三體綜合症	trisomy; Down's syndrome
3D打印	to 3D print; 3D printing
3D打印機	3D printer
4S店	authorized full-service car dealership (offering sales, spare parts, after-sales service and customer support)
502膠	cyanoacrylate glue
95後	people born between 1995-01-01 and 1999-12-31
AA制	to split the bill; to go Dutch
AB制	to split the bill (where the male counterpart foots the larger portion of the sum)
A咖	(coll.) A-list; top-tier
A圈兒	at symbol, @
A片	adult movie; pornography
A菜	(Tw) A-choy, or Taiwanese lettuce (Lactuca sativa var. sativa) (from Taiwanese 萵仔菜, Tai-lo pr. [ue-á-tshài] or [e-á-tshài])
A貨	good-quality fake
BP機	(loanword) beeper; pager
B型超聲	type-B ultrasound
B站	(coll.) Bilibili, Chinese video-sharing website featuring scrolled user comments 彈幕|弹幕[dan4 mu4] overlaid on the videos
B超	B-mode ultrasonography; prenatal ultrasound scan
CP值	(Tw) value for money; bang for your buck
C位	(neologism, c. 2015) (coll.) most prominent position (e.g. in a group photo of entertainers) (loanword from "carry" or "center" or "core")
C盤	C drive or default startup drive (computing)
C羅	nickname of Portuguese soccer player Cristiano Ronaldo
DNA鑒定	DNA test; DNA testing
E仔	MDMA (C11H15NO2)
G弦褲	G-string
G點	G-spot
H橋	H bridge (electronics)
IP劇	screen adaptation (TV series or movie based on an online novel or video game etc)
JK制服	(Japanese) high school girl’s uniform
K人	(slang) to hit sb; to beat sb
K仔	ketamine (slang)
K他命	ketamine (C13H16ClNO) (slang)
K房	(slang) KTV; KTV room
K書	(Tw) to cram; to study (from Taiwanese 齧書, Tai-lo pr. [khè-su], lit. to gnaw a book, similar to Mandarin 啃書|啃书[ken3 shu1])
K歌	karaoke (slang)
K粉	ketamine (slang)
K線	candlestick (in a candlestick chart)
K線圖	candlestick chart
L照	nude picture (from 裸照[luo3 zhao4])
M巾	(coll.) menstrual pad
NG片段	(film and TV) blooper; outtake
NG鏡頭	(film and TV) blooper; outtake
N久	a very long time (etymology: in mathematics, n represents an arbitrarily large number)
N擋	neutral (gear)
OK繃	(Tw) band-aid; sticking plaster
OK鏡	OK lens, orthokeratology contact lens that helps reshape the cornea in order to eliminate nearsightedness or myopia
O型腿	bow legs; bow-leggedness
PA部	hotel staff work unit tasked with keeping the public areas of a hotel clean
PO文	(coll.) to post a message
P圖	(Internet slang) to photoshop a picture; photoshopped picture
P擋	park (gear); program mode (on a digital camera)
P民	(slang) shitizen; commoner; hoi polloi
QR扣	(Tw) (loanword) QR code
Q勁	springy mouthfeel
Q彈	(of a food's mouthfeel) springy; firm; al dente
TF卡	microSD card
Tony老師	(slang) hairdresser
T台	runway (for a fashion show etc); catwalk
T型台	runway (for a fashion show etc); catwalk
T字帳	T-account (accounting)
T字褲	thong (underwear)
T恤	(loanword) T-shirt
UP主	(Internet slang) uploader (person who uploads a video or other content to the Internet)
USB手指	USB flash drive
U凸內褲	contour pouch brief (men's underwear)
U型枕	travel pillow
U型池	(sports) vert ramp; half-pipe
U形轉彎	U-turn
U盤	USB flash drive; thumb drive
U盾	USB key used as a security token in Chinese online banking
V溝	low neckline that reveals the cleavage; décolleté; gully
XO醬	XO sauce, a spicy seafood sauce invented in Hong Kong in the 1980s
X光	X-ray
Z世代	Generation Z; Zoomers
e人	(slang) extroverted person
i人	(slang) introverted person
word姐	my big sister (Internet slang version of 我的姐[wo3 de5 jie3])
□	uptight; obstinate; to awkwardly force oneself to do sth (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [king], often written as ㄍㄧㄥ, no generally accepted hanzi form)
○	character used in Taiwan as a substitute for a real name (like "X" in English)
⺮	"bamboo" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 118)
々	iteration mark indicating repetition of the preceding character in horizontal writing (rare in modern Chinese)
〇	zero
〡	numeral 1 in the Suzhou numeral system 蘇州碼子|苏州码子[Su1 zhou1 ma3 zi5]
〢	numeral 2 in the Suzhou numeral system 蘇州碼子|苏州码子[Su1 zhou1 ma3 zi5]
〣	numeral 3 in the Suzhou numeral system 蘇州碼子|苏州码子[Su1 zhou1 ma3 zi5]
〤	numeral 4 in the Suzhou numeral system 蘇州碼子|苏州码子[Su1 zhou1 ma3 zi5]
〥	numeral 5 in the Suzhou numeral system 蘇州碼子|苏州码子[Su1 zhou1 ma3 zi5]
〦	numeral 6 in the Suzhou numeral system 蘇州碼子|苏州码子[Su1 zhou1 ma3 zi5]
〧	numeral 7 in the Suzhou numeral system 蘇州碼子|苏州码子[Su1 zhou1 ma3 zi5]
〨	numeral 8 in the Suzhou numeral system 蘇州碼子|苏州码子[Su1 zhou1 ma3 zi5]
〩	numeral 9 in the Suzhou numeral system 蘇州碼子|苏州码子[Su1 zhou1 ma3 zi5]
〸	numeral 10 in the Suzhou numeral system 蘇州碼子|苏州码子[Su1 zhou1 ma3 zi5]
〻	iteration mark indicating repetition of the preceding character in vertical writing (rare in modern Chinese)
ㄅㄧㄤˋ	(Tw) (coll.) cool; awesome; pr. [biang4]
ㄏㄤ	(Tw) (slang) popular; hot (from Taiwanese 烘, Tai-lo pr. [hang])
㐄	component in Chinese characters, mirror image of 夂[zhi3]
㐖	used in 㐖毒[Xie2 du2]
㐖毒	archaic name for India
㑊	used in 解㑊[xie4 yi4]
㑳	(old) beautiful; clever
㔾	"seal" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 26)
㕻	also pr. [tou4]
㗂	tight-lipped; to examine; to watch
㘓	used in 㘓哰|𪢌哰[lan2 lao2]
㘓哰	incoherent; unintelligible
㘚	(literary) (of a tiger) to growl; to roar
㘵	(used in place names)
㙍	(used in place names)
㙡	used in 雞㙡|鸡𭎂[ji1 zong1]
㙦	(used in place names)
㚻	used in 㚻姦|㚻奸[ji1 jian1]
㛂	graceful; frail and petite
㝵	to obtain (old variant of 得[de2])
㞎	(dialect) poo; (dialect) to shit
㞎㞎	(baby talk) poop
㞗	(dialect) penis; dick
㞞	(coll.) semen; (coll.) weak and incompetent
㟃	(used in place names)
㠇	(name of a mountain ridge)
㣟	to go; to walk
㥏	(literary) ashamed
㥮	(dialect) stubborn
㧯	round-bottomed wicker basket; (dialect) to lift
㨗	quick; nimble
㩳	(literary) to stand upright; (dialect) to push; to shove
㪃	to beat; to hit
㫰	(dialect) to dry (sth) in the sun; to dry (sth) in the air
㱾	a kind of metal or jade ornament worn in ancient times to ward off evil spirits
㲋	ancient name for an animal similar to rabbit but bigger
㳇	(used in place names)
㳘	(literary) (of a mountain stream) to flow down
㵐	Jue River in Hubei
㵐水	Jue River (in Hubei Province)
㵮	clear water
㶸	(precise meaning unknown, relates to iron)
㸌	to twinkle; to glint
㹢	used in 㺢㹢狓[huo4 jia1 pi2]
㹴	terrier; also pr. [geng3]
㹴犬	terrier
㺢	used in 㺢㹢狓[huo4 jia1 pi2]
㺢㹢狓	(loanword) okapi (Okapia johnstoni)
㺵	black jade (variant of 玖[jiu3])
㻬	a kind of jade
㻽	also pr. [sui4]
㿠	(literary) (of the face) pale due to qi and blood deficiency
䃎	(used in place names)
䅵	chaff; bran
䈰	pot-scrubbing brush made of bamboo strips
䍃	(archaic) vase; pitcher
䎃	(ornithology) down
䓬	(chemistry) tropylium ion
䕭	a kind of vegetable
䗥	used in 螉䗥[weng1 zong1]
䗪	Chinese ground beetle (Eupolyphaga sinensis)
䠀	to squat; to sit
䠷	used in 高䠷[gao1 tiao3]
䢺	(used in place names)
䥑	meitnerium (chemistry)
䰾	used in 䰾魚|鲃鱼[ba1 yu2]
䰾魚	barbel (fish)
䲁	blenny
䲘	Ochetobius elongatus, species of cyprinid fish found in eastern Asia
䳭	wheatear (bird of genus Oenanthe)
䴈	used in 鶆䴈|𱉵𬸩[lai2 ao3]
䴉	spoonbill; ibis; family Threskiornithidae
䴉嘴鷸	(bird species of China) ibisbill (Ibidorhyncha struthersii)
一	one; single; a (article)
一一	one by one; one after another
一一對應	one-to-one correspondence
一一映射	(math.) bijective map
一丁不識	(idiom) illiterate
一丁點	a tiny bit
一下	(after a verb) a bit; a little (indicating brief duration, or softening the tone, or suggesting giving sth a try)
一下兒	erhua form of 一下[yi1 xia4]
一下子	once; one time; (following a verb) for a moment; briefly
一不做，二不休	lit. either don't do it, or don't rest (idiom)
一不小心	to be a little bit careless; to have a moment of inattentiveness; accidentally
一世	generation; period of 30 years; one's whole lifetime
一丘之貉	jackals of the same tribe (idiom); fig. They are all just as bad as each other.
一丟丟	(coll.) a tiny bit
一中一台	"one China, one Taiwan" – the notion that China and Taiwan are separate political entities
一中原則	One-China principle, the official doctrine that Taiwan is a province of China
一之為甚	once is more than enough (idiom)
一乾二淨	thoroughly (idiom); completely; one and all
一了百了	(idiom) once the main problem is solved, all troubles are solved; death ends all one's troubles
一事無成	(idiom) to have achieved nothing; to be a total failure; to get nowhere
一二	one or two; a few; a little; just a bit
一二九運動	December 9th Movement (1935), student protest movement calling for resistance to Japanese aggression
一二八事變	January 28 Incident (1932), military conflict between China and Japan in Shanghai
一五一十	lit. count by fives and tens (idiom); to narrate systematically and in full detail
一些	some; a few; a little; (following an adjective) slightly ...er
一人得道，雞犬升天	(lit.) when a person attains enlightenment and immortality, even his chickens and dogs will ascend to heaven with him (idiom)
一介不取	to not even take a penny (as a bribe)
一代	an era; an age; a generation
一代不如一代	to be getting worse with each generation
一以貫之	(idiom) (of a principle, purpose etc) consistently upheld; adhered to from beginning to end
一作	first author (of an academic paper) (abbr. for 第一作者[di4 yi1 zuo4 zhe3])
一併	to lump together; to treat along with all the others
一來	firstly, ...
一來二去	gradually; little by little; in the course of time
一個	a; an; one; the whole (afternoon, summer vacation etc)
一個中國政策	one-China policy
一個人	by oneself (without assistance); alone (without company)
一個個	a number of; each and every one; one by one; one after another
一個勁	continuously; persistently; incessantly
一個半	one and a half
一個天南，一個地北	to live miles apart
一個將軍一個令	lit. one general, one order (idiom)
一個巴掌拍不響	lit. one palm alone cannot clap (proverb)
一個接一個	one by one; one after another
一個樣	the same; of the same type
一個蘿蔔一個坑	lit. every turnip to its hole (idiom)
一個頭兩個大	(coll.) to feel as though one's head could explode (Tw)
一側化	lateralization
一傳十，十傳百	(idiom) (of news etc) to spread like wildfire; to be disseminated far and wide
一價	monovalent (chemistry)
一元	(math.) single-variable; univariate
一元化	integration; integrated; unified
一元復始	a new year begins (idiom)
一元論	monism, belief that the universe is made of a single substance
一元醇	(chemistry) monohydric alcohol; alcohol with one hydroxyl group
一共	in total; altogether
一再	repeatedly
一刀兩斷	(idiom) to make a clean break with; to have nothing more to do with
一刀切	lit. to cut all at one stroke (idiom); to impose uniformity
一分一毫	(idiom) the tiniest bit
一分為二	one divides into two; to be two-sided
一分熟	rare (of steak)
一分耕耘，一分收穫	(saying) you reap what you sow
一分錢一分貨	you get what you pay for
一分錢兩分貨	high quality at bargain price
一切	everything; every; all
一切向錢看	to put money above everything else
一切如舊	everything as before
一切就緒	everything in its place and ready (idiom)
一切險	all risks (insurance)
一刻	a quarter of an hour; 15 minutes; a moment; an instant
一刻千金	(idiom) time is gold; every minute is precious
一刻鐘	a quarter of an hour
一則	on the one hand
一則以喜，一則以憂	happy on the one hand, but worried on the other
一剎那	a moment; an instant; in a flash
一力降十會	brute force overcomes clever tactics
一動不動	motionless
一勞永逸	to get sth done once and for all
一匙	spoonful
一千零一夜	One Thousand and One Nights; Arabian Nights
一半	half
一半天	in a day or two; soon
一卡通	the name of various contactless smart cards, notably Yikatong (mainly for public transport in Beijing) and iPASS (mainly for public transport in Taiwan)
一去不回	gone forever
一去不復返	gone forever
一去無影蹤	gone without a trace
一反常態	complete change from the normal state (idiom); quite uncharacteristic
一反往常	contrary to what usually happens
一口	readily; flatly (deny, admit and so on); a mouthful
一口價	fixed price; take-it-or-leave-it price
一口吃不成胖子	lit. you cannot get fat with only one mouthful (proverb)
一口吃個胖子	lit. to want to get fat with only one mouthful (proverb)
一口咬定	to arbitrarily assert; to allege; to stick to one's statement
一口氣	one breath; in one breath; at a stretch
一句	a line of verse; a sentence
一句話	in a word; in short
一同	together
一吐為快	to get sth off one's chest
一向	a period of time in the recent past
一周	one week; all the way around; a whole cycle
一味	persistently; stubbornly; blindly
一呼百應	(idiom) (of a call) to elict an enthusiastic response; to receive extensive approval
一呼百諾	one command brings a hundred responses (idiom); having hundreds of attendants at one's beck and call
一命嗚呼	to die (idiom); to breathe one's last; to give up the ghost
一品	superb; first-rate; (of officials in imperial times) the highest rank
一品紅	poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima)
一品鍋	dish containing a variety of meats and vegetables arranged in a broth in a clay pot
一哄而散	to disperse in confusion (idiom)
一哄而起	(of a group of people) to rush into action
一員	a member (of an organization)
一哥	(coll.) top-ranked male; leading male; top male personality (in a particular field, esp. in entertainment or sports)
一哭二鬧三上吊	(lit.) to cry, then shout, then threaten suicide (saying)
一唱一和	to echo one another (idiom)
一唱三嘆	(idiom) (of literature or music) concise yet deeply evocative; inviting repeated savoring
一問三不知	lit. to reply "don't know" whatever the question (idiom)
一回事	one and the same (thing); one thing (as distinct from another)
一回生二回熟	unfamiliar at first, but well accustomed soon enough (idiom)
一國兩制	one country, two systems (PRC proposal regarding Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan)
一團亂糟	a chaotic mess
一團和氣	(idiom) to keep on the right side of everyone (often at the expense of principle)
一團漆黑	pitch-dark; (fig.) completely in the dark; totally ignorant of
一團火	fireball; ball of fire
一團糟	chaos; bungle; complete mess
一地雞毛	complete mess; in a shambles
一堆	pile; heap; a lot of; a bunch of
一場空	all in vain; futile
一塊	a piece; a chunk
一塌糊塗	muddled and completely collapsing (idiom); in an awful condition
一塵不染	(idiom) untainted by even a speck of dust; spotlessly clean; (of a person) honest; incorruptible
一壁	at the same time; simultaneously; while
一夔已足	one talented person is enough for the job (idiom)
一夕	overnight; instantly; very quickly
一夕數驚	(lit.) one scare after another in a single night (idiom)
一多對應	one-to-many correspondence
一夜之間	(lit. and fig.) overnight
一夜情	one night stand
一夜無眠	to have a sleepless night
一夜爆紅	to become popular overnight
一夜露水	one-night stand; ephemeral
一大早	at dawn; at first light; first thing in the morning
一大通	(coll.) a whole lot of ...; an endless stream of ... (used in relation to excessive or tedious amounts of talk, explanations, complaints etc)
一天一個樣	to change from day to day
一天到晚	all day long; the whole day
一夫一妻	monogamy
一夫多妻	polygyny
一夫當關，萬夫莫開	(idiom) one man guarding the pass can prevent the passage of ten thousand
一失足成千古恨	a single slip may cause everlasting sorrow (idiom)
一套	suit; a set; a collection
一如	to be just like
一如往常	as usual
一如所料	as expected
一如既往	(idiom) just as in the past; as before; continuing as always
一妻制	monogyny
一姐	(coll.) top-ranked female; leading female; top female personality (in a particular field, esp. in entertainment or sports)
一孔之見	(idiom) partial view; limited outlook
一字	in a row; in a line
一字一淚	each word is a teardrop (idiom)
一字不差	(idiom) word for word; verbatim; without a single mistake or omission
一字不提	to not mention a single word (about sth) (idiom)
一字不漏	without missing a word
一字不識	totally illiterate
一字之師	one who can correct a misread or misspelt character and thus be your master
一字兒	erhua form of 一字[yi1 zi4]
一字千金	one word worth a thousand in gold (idiom)
一字巾	headband; strip of cloth worn around the head
一字縱隊	single file
一字褒貶	(lit.) to dispense praise or blame with a single word (idiom)
一字馬	the splits (in gymnastics, dance or martial arts)
一學就會	to pick up (a skill) in a very short time; to take to sth like a duck to water
一定	surely; certainly; definitely; fixed; settled
一家	the whole family; the same family
一家之主	master of the house; head of the family
一家人	the whole family; (lit. and fig.) members of the same family
一家人不說兩家話	lit. family members speak frankly with one another, not courteously, as if they were from two different families (idiom)
一家子	the whole family
一宿	one whole night; all night
一審	first instance (law)
一寸光陰一寸金	(saying) time is precious
一寸光陰一寸金，寸金難買寸光陰	(lit.) an interval of time is worth an ounce of gold, money cannot buy you time (saying)
一對	couple; pair
一對一	one-to-one; one-on-one
一對一鬥牛	one-on-one basketball game
一對兒	a pair; a couple
一小撮	handful (of)
一小部分	a small part; a small section
一小陣兒	very brief period of time
一展身手	to showcase one's talents; to display one's prowess
一層	one layer; one level
一山不容二虎	lit. the mountain can't have two tigers (idiom)
一己	oneself
一帆風順	propitious wind throughout the journey (idiom); plain sailing
一席之地	(acknowledged) place; a role to play; niche
一席話	the content of a conversation; words; remarks
一帶	region; area
一帶一路	Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), Chinese infrastructure and investment strategy launched in 2013
一帶而過	to skate around; to skip over; to skimp
一年一度	(idiom) annual; once a year
一年之計在於春	the whole year must be planned for in the spring (idiom)
一年到頭	all year round
一年半	a year and a half
一年半載	about a year
一年四季	all year round
一年多	more than a year
一年期	one year period (in a contract or budget)
一年生	(botany) (of a plant) annual
一度	for a time; at one time; one time
一廂情願	one's own wishful thinking
一式二份	in duplicate
一彈指頃	a snap of the fingers (idiom); in a flash; in the twinkling of an eye
一往情深	deeply attached; devoted
一往無前	to advance courageously (idiom); to press forward
一律	same; identical; uniformly; all; without exception
一徑	directly; straightaway; straight
一心	wholeheartedly; heart and soul
一心一德	of one heart and one mind (idiom)
一心一意	concentrating one's thoughts and efforts; single-minded; bent on
一心二用	to do two things at once (idiom); to multitask
一心多用	to multitask
一念之差	momentary slip; false step; ill-considered action
一意	focus; with complete devotion; stubbornly
一意孤行	obstinately clinging to one's course (idiom); willful; one's own way
一應	all; every
一應俱全	with everything needed available
一成不變	(idiom) immutable; impervious to change; set in stone
一戰	World War I (1914–1918)
一房一廳	one bedroom and one living room
一手	a skill; mastery of a trade; by oneself
一手交錢，一手交貨	lit. one hand exchanges the cash, the other the goods (idiom)
一手包辦	to take care of a matter all by oneself; to run the whole show
一手遮天	lit. to hide the sky with one hand; to hide the truth from the masses
一打	dozen
一技之長	proficiency in a particular field (idiom)
一把好手	expert; dab hand
一把屎一把尿	to have endured all sorts of hardships (to raise one's children) (idiom)
一把年紀	to be getting on in years; an advanced age
一把手	working hand; member of a work team; participant
一把抓	to attempt all tasks at once
一把死拿	stubborn; inflexible
一把眼淚一把鼻涕	with one's face covered in tears (idiom)
一把鑰匙開一把鎖	One key opens one lock.
一抓一大把	(coll.) to be a dime a dozen; easy to come by
一抿子	a little bit
一拍兩散	(of marriage or business partners) to break up; to separate
一拍即合	lit. to be together from the first beat (idiom); to hit it off
一掃而空	(idiom) to make a clean sweep of; to clean out
一排	row
一探究竟	to check out; to investigate
一推六二五	1 divided by 16 is 0.0625 (abacus rule)
一掬同情之淚	to shed tears of sympathy (idiom)
一揮而就	to finish (a letter, a painting) at a stroke
一撥兒	group of people
一擁而上	to swarm around; flocking (to see)
一擁而入	to swarm in (of people etc) (idiom)
一擊入洞	hole in one (golf)
一擲千金	lit. stake a thousand pieces of gold on one throw (idiom); to throw away money recklessly
一攬子	all-inclusive; undiscriminating
一改再改	to change (sth) repeatedly
一改故轍	complete change from the old rut (idiom); dramatic change of direction
一敗塗地	lit. defeated, the ground blanketed with bodies (idiom)
一文不值	worthless (idiom); no use whatsoever
一文不名	to be penniless
一斑	lit. one spot (on the leopard); fig. one small item in a big scheme
一方	a party (in a contract or legal case); one side; area
一方面	on the one hand
一旁	aside; to the side of
一族	social group; subculture; family
一日三秋	a single day apart seems like three seasons (idiom)
一日三餐	to have three meals a day
一日不如一日	to be getting worse by the day
一日不見，如隔三秋	one day apart seems like three years (idiom)
一日之計在於晨	make your day's plan early in the morning (idiom)
一日之雅	lit. friends for a day (idiom); fig. casual acquaintance
一日千里	lit. one day, a thousand miles (idiom); rapid progress
一日為師，終身為父	(idiom) teacher for one day, father forever; students should have deep respect and lifelong gratitude for their teachers
一日遊	day trip; one-day tour
一旦	in case (sth happens); if; once (sth happens, then...)
一早	early in the morning; at dawn
一星半點	just the tiniest bit; a hint of
一是一，二是二	lit. one is one, two is two (idiom)
一時	a period of time; a while; for a short while
一時半刻	(idiom) a short time; a little while
一時半晌	a short time; a little while
一時半會	a short time; a little while
一時半會兒	a short time; a little while
一時半霎	a short time; a little while
一時瑜亮	two remarkable persons living at the same period (as 周瑜[Zhou1 Yu2] and 諸葛亮|诸葛亮[Zhu1 ge3 Liang4])
一時間	for a moment; momentarily
一晃	(of passing time) in an instant; (of a sight) in a flash
一曝十寒	one day's sun, ten days' frost (idiom, from Mencius); fig. to work for a bit then skimp
一更	first of the five night watch periods 19:00-21:00 (old)
一會	a moment; a while; in a moment
一會兒	a moment; a while; in a moment
一月	January; first month (of the lunar year)
一月份	January
一望無垠	to stretch as far as the eye can see (idiom)
一望無際	as far as the eye can see (idiom)
一望而知	(idiom) to be evident at a glance
一朝一夕	lit. one morning and one evening (idiom)
一朝天子一朝臣	new emperor, new officials (idiom); a new chief brings in new aides
一朝被蛇咬，十年怕井繩	(lit.) once bitten by a snake, one is scared all one's life at the mere sight of a rope (saying)
一木難支	lit. a single post cannot prop up a falling house (idiom)
一本正經	(idiom) in deadly earnest; deadpan
一本萬利	small capital, huge profit (idiom); to put in a little and get a lot out
一杯羹	lit. a cup of soup; fig. to get part of the profits
一東一西	far apart
一板一眼	lit. one strong beat and one weak beats in a measure of music (two beats in the bar) (idiom); fig. follow a prescribed pattern to the letter
一板三眼	lit. one strong beat and three weak beats in a measure of music (four beats in the bar) (idiom); fig. scrupulous attention to detail
一枝獨秀	lit. only one branch of the tree is thriving (idiom)
一柱擎天	lit. to support the sky as a single pillar (idiom)
一根筋	stubborn; inflexible; one-track minded
一桿進洞	(golf) hole in one
一條心	to be of one mind; to think or act alike
一條繩上的螞蚱	lit. grasshoppers tied together with a piece of string (idiom)
一條路走到黑	lit. to follow one road until dark (idiom)
一條道走到黑	to stick to one's ways; to cling to one's course
一條龍	lit. one dragon; integrated chain; coordinated process
一條龍服務	one-stop service
一棍子打死	to deal a single fatal blow
一概	all; without any exceptions; categorically
一概而論	to lump different matters together (idiom)
一槍命中	to hit with the first shot
一模一樣	(idiom) exactly alike; identical; also pr. [yi1mo2-yi1yang4]
一樣	same; like; equal to
一次	first; first time; once
一次函數	linear function (math.)
一次又一次	repeatedly; over and over again
一次性	one-off (offer); one-time; single-use
一次方程	linear equation
一次方程式	(math.) linear equation
一次生，兩次熟	unfamiliar at first but you get used to it
一次總付	lump-sum (finance)
一步一個腳印	one step, one footprint (idiom); steady progress; reliable
一步到位	to accomplish in one step; to achieve the desired result in one go
一步登天	reaching heaven in a single bound (idiom); (esp. with negative: don't expect) instant success
一步裙	pencil skirt
一毛一樣	(coll.) exactly alike; identical
一毛不拔	(lit.) unwilling to spare a single hair (idiom)
一氣	at one go; at a stretch; for a period of time
一氣之下	in a fit of pique; in a fury
一氣呵成	to do something at one go; to flow smoothly
一氧化二氮	nitrous oxide N2O; laughing gas
一氧化氮	nitric oxide
一氧化碳	carbon monoxide CO
一水兒	(coll.) of the same type; identical
一決雌雄	to have a showdown; to fight for mastery; to compete for a championship
一波三折	calligraphic flourish with many twists; fig. many twists and turns
一波未平，一波又起	before the first wave subsides, a new wave rises (idiom); a new problem arises before the old is solved
一派胡言	a bunch of nonsense
一派謊言	a pack of lies
一流	top quality; front ranking
一清二楚	to be very clear about sth (idiom)
一清二白	perfectly clean; blameless; unimpeachable (idiom)
一清如水	lit. as clear as water (idiom)
一清早	early in the morning
一準	certainly
一溜煙	like a wisp of smoke; (to disappear etc) in an instant
一潭死水	a pool of stagnant water; stagnant or listless condition
一炮打響	(idiom) to hit the jackpot with a single shot; to achieve success at one's first try
一炮而紅	to win instant success (idiom); to become an instant hit
一無所動	totally unaffected; unimpressed
一無所有	not having anything at all (idiom); utterly lacking
一無所獲	to gain nothing; to end up empty-handed
一無所知	(idiom) not knowing anything at all; completely ignorant
一無所聞	unheard of
一無所長	not having any special skill; without any qualifications
一無是處	(idiom) not one good point; everything about it is wrong
一物降一物	lit. one object bests another object
一犯再犯	to keep doing (the wrong thing)
一琴一鶴	carrying very little luggage (idiom)
一瓶子不響，半瓶子晃蕩	lit. a full bottle makes no sound; a half-filled bottle sloshes (idiom)
一生	all one's life; throughout one's life
一生一世	a whole lifetime (idiom); all my life
一甲	1st rank or top three candidates who passed the imperial examination (i.e. 狀元|状元[zhuang4 yuan2], 榜眼[bang3 yan3], and 探花[tan4 hua1], respectively)
一甲子	sixty years
一男半女	(idiom) a son or daughter; a child
一畝三分地	a piece of land of 1.3 mu 畝|亩[mu3]; (fig.) one's turf
一病不起	to fall gravely ill, never to recover (idiom)
一瘸一拐	to limp; to hobble
一發	(Japanese mahjong) to complete one's hand within a single turn after declaring riichi (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 一発 "ippatsu")
一發不可收拾	once it gets started there's no stopping it
一發而不可收	to be impossible to stop once started
一百一	faultless; impeccable
一盤散沙	lit. like a sheet of loose sand; fig. unable to cooperate (idiom)
一盤棋	chessboard layout; (fig.) overall situation
一目了然	obvious at a glance (idiom)
一目十行	ten lines at a glance (idiom); to read very rapidly
一目瞭然	obvious at a glance (idiom)
一直	straight (in a straight line)
一直以來	in the past always; for a long time now; until now
一眨眼	in a wink
一眼	a glance; a quick look; a glimpse
一眼望去	as far as the eye can see
一眼看穿	to see through something at first glance (idiom)
一眾	a group of people; a whole group (esp. in formal or journalistic usage)
一睹	to look; to have a glimpse at; to observe (sth's splendor)
一瞥	glance; glimpse
一瞬	one instant; very short time; the twinkle of an eye
一瞬間	split second
一矢中的	to hit the target with a single shot; to say something spot on (idiom)
一知半解	(idiom) to have a superficial knowledge of a subject; to know a smattering of sth
一石二鳥	to kill two birds with one stone (idiom)
一碗水端平	lit. to hold a bowl of water level (idiom); fig. to be impartial
一神教	monotheistic religion; monotheism
一神論	monotheism; unitarianism (denying the Trinity)
一秉虔誠	earnestly and sincerely (idiom); devoutly
一秘	first secretary
一種	one kind of; one type of
一空	leaving none left; (sold etc) out
一窩蜂	like a swarm of bees; in droves (used to describe people flocking to do sth)
一窮二白	impoverished; backward both economically and culturally
一窺端倪	to infer easily; to guess at a glance; to get a clue
一竅不通	lit. doesn't (even) enter a single aperture (of one's head)
一站式	one-stop (service, shop etc)
一笑了之	to laugh away (instead of taking seriously)
一笑置之	to dismiss with a laugh; to make light of
一筆不苟	lit. not even one stroke is negligent (idiom)
一筆勾銷	to write off at one stroke
一筆帶過	(idiom) to mention only very briefly; to skate over (a topic)
一筆抹殺	to blot out at one stroke; to reject out of hand
一等	first class; grade A
一等一	(coll.) top-notch; first-rate; outstanding
一等獎	first prize
一箭之仇	a wrong suffered (idiom); old grievance; previous defeat
一箭雙鵰	lit. one arrow, two golden eagles (idiom)
一籌莫展	to be unable to find a solution; to be at wits' end
一籮筐	bucketloads of; in large quantities; extremely
一粒老鼠屎壞了一鍋粥	lit. one pellet of rat feces spoiled the whole pot of congee (idiom)
一系列	a series of; a string of
一紙空文	a worthless piece of paper (idiom)
一級	first class; category A
一級士官	corporal (army)
一級方程式	Formula One (motor racing)
一級棒	first-rate; excellent (loanword from Japanese 一番, ichiban)
一級頭	first stage (diving)
一統	to unify; unified
一絲一毫	one thread, one hair (idiom); a tiny bit; an iota
一絲不掛	not wearing one thread (idiom); absolutely naked
一絲不苟	not one thread loose (idiom); strictly according to the rules
一經	as soon as; once (an action has been completed)
一維	one-dimensional (math.)
一網打盡	lit. to catch everything in the one net (idiom)
一線	front line; front-line position
一線之間	a hair's breadth apart; a fine line; a fine distinction
一線之隔	a fine line; a fine distinction
一線希望	a gleam of hope
一線生機	(idiom) a chance of survival; a fighting chance; a ray of hope
一總	altogether; in all
一而再，再而三	again and again
一聲	first tone in Mandarin (high, level tone)
一聲不吭	to not say a word
一聲不響	to keep totally silent; noiselessly
一肚子	bellyful (of sth); full of (sth)
一肚皮	bellyful (of sth); full of (sth)
一股子	a whiff of; a taint of; a thread of
一股清流	(fig.) a breath of fresh air
一股腦	all of it; lock, stock and barrel
一胎制	the one-child policy
一胎化	practice of allowing only one child per family
一脈相承	traceable to the same stock (idiom); of a common origin (of trends, ideas etc)
一腔	full of (zeal, anger etc)
一臉茫然	puzzled; bewildered
一致	consistent; unanimous; in agreement; together; in unison
一致字	(orthography) consistent words (e.g. "dean", "bean", and "lean", where "-ean" is pronounced the same in each case)
一致性	consistency; coherence; uniformity
一致性效應	consistency effect
一舉	a move; an action; in one move
一舉一動	(idiom) every movement; each and every move
一舉兩得	(lit.) one action, two gains (idiom); (fig.) two birds with one stone
一舉成功	success at one go; to succeed at the first attempt
一舉成名	(idiom) to become famous in one stroke; to shoot to fame (originally referred to passing the imperial examination)
一舉手一投足	every little move; every single movement
一般	same; ordinary; so-so
一般人	average person
一般來說	generally speaking
一般來講	generally speaking
一般原則	general principle
一般性	general; generality
一般而言	generally speaking
一般般	not particularly good; so-so
一般見識	(idiom) to lower oneself to (sb's) level
一般規定	ordinary provision (law)
一般說來	generally speaking; in general
一般貿易	general trade (i.e. importing and export without processing)
一落千丈	lit. to drop a thousand zhang in one fall (idiom)
一葉知秋	lit. the falling of one leaf heralds the coming of autumn (idiom)
一葉障目	lit. eyes obscured by a single leaf (idiom)
一著不慎，滿盤皆輸	One careless move and the whole game is lost. (idiom)
一號	first day of the month; toilet
一號木桿	driver (golf)
一號電池	D size battery
一血	(gaming) first blood
一行	party; delegation
一衣帶水	(separated only by) a narrow strip of water
一襲	an outfit of (clothing)
一見傾心	love at first sight
一見如故	familiarity at first sight
一見鍾情	to fall in love at first sight (idiom)
一見高低	lit. to fight it out with sb to see who is best (idiom)
一視同仁	to treat everyone equally favorably (idiom); not to discriminate between people
一親芳澤	to get close to; to get on intimate terms with
一覺醒來	to wake up from a sleep
一覽	at a glance; (in book titles) overview
一覽無遺	be plainly visible
一覽無餘	to cover all at one glance (idiom); a panoramic view
一覽眾山小	(last line of the poem 望岳 by Tang poet Du Fu 杜甫[Du4 Fu3]) with one look I shall see all the smaller mountains down below (from the summit of Mt Tai 泰山[Tai4 Shan1])
一覽表	table; schedule; list
一角鯨	narwhal (Monodon monoceros)
一觸即潰	to collapse on the first encounter; to give way at once
一觸即發	could happen at any moment; on the verge
一言	one sentence; brief remark
一言一動	(one's) every word and deed (idiom)
一言一行	every word and action (idiom)
一言不合	(idiom) to have a disagreement (typically leading to a quarrel or fight)
一言不發	to not say a word (idiom)
一言九鼎	one word worth nine sacred tripods (idiom); words of enormous weight
一言以蔽之	one word says it all (idiom, from Analects); to cut a long story short
一言千金	one word worth a thousand in gold (idiom); valuable advice
一言堂	(sign hung in a shop) prices fixed – no bargaining (old)
一言抄百總	to cut a long story short
一言既出，駟馬難追	lit. once said, a team of horses cannot unsay it (idiom); a promise must be kept
一言為定	(idiom) it's a deal; that's settled then
一言為重	each word carries weight; a promise must be kept (idiom)
一言難盡	hard to explain in a few words (idiom); complicated and not easy to express succinctly
一語不發	to not say a word (idiom)
一語中的	(idiom) to hit the mark with a comment; to say sth spot on
一語成讖	(idiom) to have one's words turn out to be (tragically) prophetic
一語道破	one word says it all (idiom); to hit the nail on the head
一語雙關	to make a pun; to have a double meaning; double entendre
一說	an expression of opinion; according to some
一諾千金	(lit.) a promise worth a thousand pieces of gold (idiom)
一貧如洗	(idiom) penniless; destitute
一貫	consistent; constant; from start to finish
一走了之	to avoid a problem by walking away from it; to quit
一起	(in) the same place; together; in company (with); altogether; in total
一路	the whole journey; all the way; going the same way
一路上	along the way; the whole way; (fig.) the whole time
一路來	all the way; all along; since the start
一路平安	to have a pleasant journey; Bon voyage!
一路貨色	(idiom) (pejorative) as detestable as each other; birds of a feather; cut from the same cloth
一路順風	to have a pleasant journey (idiom)
一路風塵	to live an exhausting journey
一蹴即至	lit. to get there in one step (idiom); fig. easily done
一蹴可幾	to succeed at the first try (idiom); easy as pie
一蹴而就	to get there in one step (idiom); easily done; success at a stroke
一蹶不振	one stumble, unable to rise (idiom); a setback leading to total collapse
一躍而起	to jump up suddenly; to bound up; to rise up in one bound
一身	whole body; from head to toe; single person
一身兩役	one person taking on two tasks simultaneously
一身是膽	devoid of fear (idiom); intrepid
一身汗	sweating all over
一較高下	to compete against; to measure oneself against
一輩子	(for) a lifetime
一輪	first round or stage (of a match, election, talks, planned policy etc)
一轉眼	in the blink of an eye
一辭莫贊	left speechless by sth perfect (idiom)
一通百通	grasp this fundamental point and all the rest will follow (idiom)
一逞獸欲	to give way to one's beastly lust
一連	in a row; in succession; running
一連串	a succession of; a series of
一遍	one time (all the way through); once through
一遍又一遍	over and over
一過性	(medicine) transient; temporary
一道	together
一遞一個	one after another
一遞一聲	(of singers etc) one answering the other
一邊	one side; either side; on the one hand
一邊倒	to have the advantage overwhelmingly on one side
一部二十四史，不知從何說起	It's a long and intricate story, I hardly know where to start.
一部分	portion; part of; subset
一醉方休	to get thoroughly drunk (idiom); to get plastered
一針見血	lit. to draw blood on the first prick (idiom)
一錘子買賣	a one-off, short-sighted deal; a one-shot, all-out attempt
一錘定音	lit. to fix the tone with a single hammer blow
一錢不值	(idiom) not worth a penny; utterly worthless
一錢如命	(idiom) stingy; penny-pinching
一錯再錯	to repeat errors; to continue blundering; to make continuous mistakes
一鍋粥	(lit.) a pot of porridge; (fig.) a complete mess
一長一短	(idiom) talking endlessly; long-winded
一門式	one-stop (service, shop etc)
一門心思	to set one's heart on sth (idiom)
一閃念	sudden idea; flash of insight
一閃而過	to flash past; to flit by
一陣	a burst; a fit; a peal
一陣子	a while; a spell; a short time
一雨成秋	a sudden shower towards the end of summer brings an abrupt arrival of autumn (idiom)
一雪前恥	to wipe away a humiliation (idiom)
一霎	in a flash
一霎時	in an instant
一霎眼	suddenly; in an instant
一霎間	in a flash
一靈真性	soul; spirit
一面	one side; one aspect; simultaneously... (and...)
一面之交	to have met once; casual acquaintance
一面之緣	(idiom) one-time encounter (e.g. 有一面之緣|有一面之缘[you3 yi1 mian4 zhi1 yuan2] "to have met once before")
一面之詞	one side of the story; one-sided statement
一面倒	to be entirely on one side; one-sided; lopsided
一頭	one head; a head full of sth; one end (of a stick)
一頭栽進	to plunge into; to run headlong into
一頭熱	one-sided enthusiasm (abbr. for 剃頭挑子一頭熱|剃头挑子一头热[ti4 tou2 tiao1 zi5 yi1 tou2 re4])
一頭霧水	to be confused; to be baffled
一顆老鼠屎壞了一鍋湯	lit. one pellet of rat feces spoiled the whole pot of soup (idiom)
一類	same type; category 1 (i.e. class A)
一類保護動物	class A protected animal
一顰一笑	every frown and every smile
一飲而盡	to drain the cup in one gulp (idiom)
一飽眼福	to feast one's eyes on (idiom)
一馬勺壞一鍋	one ladle (of sth bad) spoils the (whole) pot (idiom)
一馬平川	flat land one could gallop straight across (idiom); wide expanse of flat country
一馬當先	(idiom) to take the lead
一騎絕塵	(idiom) to lead the pack by a wide margin; to leave one's competitors trailing behind in one's dust
一驚一乍	frightened; flustered
一骨碌	with a rolling or twisting movement
一體	an integral whole; all concerned; everybody
一體兩面	(fig.) two sides of the same coin
一體化	to integrate; to unify
一鱗半爪	lit. one scale and half a claw (idiom); fig. only odd bits and pieces
一鳴驚人	to amaze the world with a single brilliant feat (idiom); an overnight celebrity
一黑早	at daybreak
一點	a bit; a little bit
一點一滴	bit by bit; every little bit
一點一點	little by little; bit by bit; gradually
一點不	not at all
一點就通	a hint is all that is needed
一點水一個泡	honest and trustworthy (idiom)
一點點	a little bit
一黨	one-party (state)
一黨專制	one party dictatorship
一鼓作氣	in a spurt of energy
一鼻孔出氣	lit. to breathe through the same nostril (idiom); fig. two people say exactly the same thing (usually derog.)
一齊	at the same time; simultaneously
丁	male adult; the 4th of the 10 Heavenly Stems 天干[tian1 gan1]
丁丁	(neologism) (slang) penis (丁丁 resembles "JJ", which is short for 雞雞|鸡鸡[ji1 ji1])
丁丁炒麵	chopped fried noodles
丁丑	fourteenth year D2 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1997 or 2057
丁二烯	butadiene C4H6; biethylene
丁二醇	butyl glycol
丁亥	twenty-fourth year D12 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2007 or 2067
丁克	Dual Income, No Kids (DINK) (loanword)
丁內酯	butyrolactone
丁冬	(onom.) ding dong; jingling of bells; clanking sound
丁加奴	former transliteration of Terengganu, Malaysia, replaced by 登嘉樓|登嘉楼[Deng1 jia1 lou2] in 2005
丁卯	fourth year D4 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1987 or 2047
丁卯戰爭	first Manchu invasion of Korea (1627)
丁卯胡亂	first Manchu invasion of Korea (1627)
丁型肝炎	hepatitis D
丁基	(chemistry) butyl group
丁夫	(in ancient times) a man old enough for corvée or military service
丁字	T-shape
丁字尺	T-square; set square (carpenter's tool)
丁字梁	T-girder
丁字步	T-step (basic dance position, with the feet forming a T shape)
丁字街	T-junction
丁字褲	thong (underwear)
丁字鎬	hammer pick
丁寵家庭	double income family who have pets rather than children (see also 丁克[ding1 ke4])
丁巳	fifty-fourth year D6 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1977 or 2037
丁憂	(literary) to be in mourning after the death of a parent
丁是丁，卯是卯	lit. to keep ding (the fourth heavenly stem) distinct from mao (the fourth earthly branch) (idiom)
丁未	forty-fourth year D8 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1967 or 2027
丁格犬	dingo (Canis dingo)
丁汝昌	Ding Ruchang (1836–1895), commander of the Qing North China Navy
丁烯	butene or butylene C4H8
丁烷	butane
丁玲	Ding Ling (1904–1986), Chinese novelist, author of the novel "The Sun Shines over the Sanggan River" 太陽照在桑乾河上|太阳照在桑干河上[Tai4 yang2 Zhao4 zai4 Sang1 gan1 He2 shang4], persecuted in the 1950s as "anti-Party"
丁磊	Ding Lei (1971–), founder and CEO of NetEase 網易|网易[Wang3 yi4]
丁糖	tetrose (CH2O)4, monosaccharide with four carbon atoms
丁肇中	Samuel C. C. Ting (1936-), American physicist, 1976 Nobel Prize laureate in physics
丁腈手套	nitrile glove
丁腈橡膠	nitrile rubber
丁艱	(literary) to be in mourning after the death of a parent
丁酉	thirty-fourth year D10 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1957 or 2017
丁醇	butanol; butyl alcohol C4H9OH
丁醛	butyraldehyde; butanal
丁零噹啷	(onom.) sound of a bell: ding-a-ling
丁青縣	Dêngqên, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
丁韙良	William A.P. Martin (1827-1916), American missionary who lived 62 years in China between 1850 and 1916, and helped found many Chinese colleges, first president of Peking University
丁香	lilac (Syringa spp); clove (Syzygium aromaticum)
丁骨牛排	T-bone steak
丁鯛	tench
丁鱥	tench (Tinca tinca)
丁點	tiny bit
丂	"breath" or "sigh" component in Chinese characters
七	seven; 7
七七事變	Marco Polo Bridge Incident of 7th July 1937, regarded as the beginning of the Second Sino-Japanese War 抗日戰爭|抗日战争[Kang4 Ri4 Zhan4 zheng1]
七七八八	almost; nearing completion; bits and piece
七上八下	at sixes and sevens; perturbed state of mind; in a mess
七事	(archaic) the seven duties of a sovereign
七分之一	one seventh
七分熟	medium well (of steak)
七十	seventy; 70
七十七國集團	Group of 77, loose alliance of developing countries, founded in 1964
七十年代	the seventies; the 1970s
七和弦	seventh (musical cord)
七喜	7 Up (soft drink); Hedy Holding Co., PRC computer manufacturer
七嘴八舌	lively discussion with everybody talking at once
七國集團	G7 (Group of Seven), a forum of seven major advanced economies: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and the US
七堵區	Qidu, a district of Keelung City 基隆市[Ji1 long2 Shi4], Taiwan
七夕	double seven festival, evening of seventh of lunar seventh month
七夕節	Qixi Festival or Double Seven Festival on the 7th day of the 7th lunar month
七大姑八大姨	distant relatives
七大工業國集團	G7, the group of 7 industrialized countries: US, Japan, Britain, Germany, France, Italy and Canada (now G8, including Russia)
七姊妹星團	Pleiades M45
七孔	the seven apertures of the human head: 2 eyes, 2 ears, 2 nostrils, 1 mouth
七巧板	tangram (traditional Chinese block puzzle)
七帶石斑魚	Epinephelus septemfasciatus
七年之癢	seven-year itch
七弦琴	guqin or seven-stringed zither
七彎八拐	(idiom) twisting and turning; (idiom) tricky and complicated
七彩	seven colors; a variety of colors; multicolored; rainbow-colored
七律	verse form consisting of 8 lines of 7 characters, with rhyme on alternate lines (abbr. for 七言律詩|七言律诗[qi1 yan2 lu : 4 shi1])
七情	seven emotional states
七情六欲	(idiom) various emotions and desires
七手八腳	(idiom) with everyone lending a hand (eagerly but somewhat chaotically)
七扭八歪	misshapen; crooked; uneven (idiom)
七折八扣	lit. various cuts and deductions (idiom); fig. greatly reduced
七拼八湊	assembled at random; a motley collection
七政四餘	seven heavenly bodies and four imaginary stars (in astrology and feng shui)
七方	(Chinese medicine) the seven kinds of prescriptions 大方[da4 fang1], 小方[xiao3 fang1], 緩方|缓方[huan3 fang1], 急方[ji2 fang1], 奇方[ji1 fang1], 偶方[ou3 fang1] and 重方[chong2 fang1] or 複方|复方[fu4 fang1]
七日熱	leptospirosis
七旬	70 years; one's seventies; 70 days
七星區	Qixing, a district of Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
七星瓢蟲	seven-spotted ladybug (Coccinella septempunctata)
七星關區	Qixingguan, a district of Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
七曜	the seven planets of premodern astronomy (the Sun, the Moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn)
七月	July; seventh month (of the lunar year)
七月份	July
七武士	Seven Samurai (movie)
七河州	Semirechye region of Kazakhstan, bordering Lake Balkash 巴爾喀什湖|巴尔喀什湖[Ba1 er3 ka1 shi2 Hu2]
七爺八爺	term used in Taiwan for 黑白無常|黑白无常[Hei1 Bai2 Wu2 chang2]
七碳糖	heptose (CH2O)7, monosaccharide with seven carbon atoms
七竅	the seven apertures of the human head: 2 eyes, 2 ears, 2 nostrils, 1 mouth
七竅生煙	lit. spouting smoke through the seven orifices (idiom)
七級浮屠	seven floor pagoda
七老八十	in one's seventies (age); very old (of people)
七聲	tones of the musical scale
七聲音階	heptatonic scale
七臺河市	Qitaihe, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
七葉樹	Chinese horse chestnut (Aesculus chinensis)
七葷八素	confused; distracted
七號電池	AAA battery (Taiwan equivalent: 四號電池|四号电池[si4 hao4 dian4 chi2])
七角形	heptagon
七言律詩	verse form consisting of 8 lines of 7 characters, with rhyme on alternate lines
七邊形	heptagon
七里河區	Qilihe, a district of Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
七里香	orange jasmine (Murraya paniculata)
七零八碎	bits and pieces; scattered fragments
七零八落	(idiom) everything broken and in disorder
七項全能	heptathlon
七魄	seven mortal forms in Daoism, representing carnal life and desires
七鰓鰻	lamprey (jawless proto-fish of family Petromyzontidae)
七龍珠	Dragon Ball, Japanese manga and anime series
万	used in 万俟[Mo4 qi2]
万俟	two-character surname Moqi
丈	measure of length, ten Chinese feet (3.3 m); to measure; husband
丈二和尚，摸不著頭腦	lit. like a three-meter high monk, you can't rub his head (idiom)
丈人	wife's father (father-in-law); old man
丈八蛇矛	ancient spear-like weapon 18 Chinese feet 尺[chi3] in length, with a wavy spearhead like a snake's body
丈夫	husband
丈母	wife's mother; mother-in-law
丈母娘	wife's mother; mother-in-law
丈量	to measure; measurement
三	surname San
三K黨	Ku Klux Klan; KKK
三P	(slang) threesome
三七	pseudoginseng (Panax pseudoginseng), hemostatic herb
三七二十一	three sevens are twenty-one (idiom); the facts of the matter
三七仔	(slang) pimp
三七開	ratio seventy to thirty
三七開定論	thirty percent failure, seventy percent success, the official PRC verdict on Mao Zedong
三三兩兩	in twos and threes
三下五除二	three, set five remove two (abacus rule); efficiently
三下兩下	quickly and effortlessly (idiom)
三不	the three no's (abbreviated catchphrase)
三不五時	(Tw) from time to time; frequently
三不朽	the three imperishables, three ways to distinguish oneself that aren't forgotten by history: through one's virtue 立德[li4 de2], one's service 立功[li4 gong1] and one's writings 立言[li4 yan2] (from the Zuo Zhuan 左傳|左传[Zuo3 Zhuan4])
三不沾	air ball (basketball)
三不知	to know nothing about the beginning, the middle or the end
三不管	of undetermined status; unregulated
三世	the Third (of numbered kings)
三中全會	third plenum of a national congress of the Chinese Communist Party
三九天	the twenty seven days after the Winter Solstice, reputed to be the coldest days of the year
三五	several; three or five
三五成群	in groups of three or four (idiom)
三井	Mitsui (Japanese company)
三亞市	Sanya, prefecture-level city in Hainan Province 海南省[Hai3 nan2 Sheng3]
三人成虎	three men talking makes a tiger (idiom); repeated rumor becomes a fact
三人行	(slang) threesome
三人行，則必有我師	If three walk together, one of them can teach me sth (Confucius)
三人行，必有我師	lit. if three walk together, one can be my teacher (idiom, from the Analects of Confucius)
三仇	animosity or resentment towards three groups (the bureaucrats, the wealthy, and the police) due to perceived abuse of power
三代	three generations of a family
三代同堂	three generations under one roof
三令五申	to order again and again (idiom)
三件套式西裝	three-piece suit
三伏	the three annual periods of hot weather, namely 初伏[chu1 fu2], 中伏[zhong1 fu2] and 末伏[mo4 fu2], which run consecutively over a period from mid-July to late August
三位一體	Holy Trinity; trinity
三俠五義	Sanxia wuyi (lit. Three knight-errants and five righteous one), novel edited from stories of late Qing dynasty pinghua 評話|评话 master storyteller Shi Yukun 石玉昆
三個世界	the Three Worlds (as proposed by Mao Zedong), i.e. the superpowers (USA and USSR), other wealthy countries (UK, France, Japan etc), and the developing countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America
三個代表	the Three Represents, a set of three guiding principles for the CCP introduced by Jiang Zemin 江澤民|江泽民[Jiang1 Ze2 min2] in 2000 and enshrined in the Constitution in 2004
三個和尚沒水喝	lit. three monks have no water to drink (idiom)
三個女人一個墟	three women makes a crowd
三個女人一臺戲	three women are enough for a drama (idiom)
三個臭皮匠，合成一個諸葛亮	lit. three ignorant cobblers add up to a genius (idiom); fig. collective wisdom
三個臭皮匠，賽過一個諸葛亮	lit. three ignorant cobblers add up to a genius (idiom); fig. collective wisdom
三個臭皮匠，賽過諸葛亮	lit. three ignorant cobblers add up to a genius (idiom); fig. collective wisdom
三個臭皮匠，頂個諸葛亮	lit. three ignorant cobblers add up to a genius (idiom); fig. collective wisdom
三倍	triple; three times as much; threefold
三催四請	to coax and plead
三價	trivalent
三元	(old) first place in civil service examinations at three levels: provincial 解元[jie4 yuan2], metropolitan 會元|会元[hui4 yuan2] and palace 狀元|状元[zhuang4 yuan2]
三元區	Sanyuan, a district of Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
三元醇	(chemistry) triol; alcohol with three hydroxyl groups
三元音	triphthong (such as putonghua uei etc)
三光	the sun, the moon, and the stars
三光政策	Three Alls Policy (kill all, burn all, loot all), Japanese policy in China during WWII
三克油	thank you (humorous phonetic rendering of the English phrase)
三兩	two or three
三八	International Women's Day 婦女節|妇女节[Fu4 nu:3 jie2], 8th March; foolish
三八大蓋	(coll.) Arisaka Type 38 rifle (Japanese army rifle used 1905-1945)
三八節	International Women's Day (March 8)
三八線	38th parallel, forming the DMZ border between North and South Korea
三公經費	"three public expenditures" of the PRC government, i.e. air travel, food and entertainment, and public vehicles
三分	somewhat; to some degree
三分之一	one third
三分熟	medium rare (of steak)
三分球	(basketball) three-point shot
三分鐘熱度	brief period of enthusiasm; flash in the pan
三分頭	regular men's haircut; short back and sides
三包	"three-guarantee service": repair, exchange, refund
三北	China's three northern regions, 東北|东北[Dong1 bei3], 華北|华北[Hua2 bei3] and 西北[Xi1 bei3]
三北防護林	Green Wall of China, a massive afforestation program on the eastern margin of the Gobi Desert aimed at stopping the desert's expansion, started in 1978 and planned to be completed by 2050
三十	thirty; 30
三十二相	the thirty-two physical characteristics of Buddha
三十八度線	38th parallel
三十六字母	thirty six initial consonants of Song phonetic theory
三十六計	The Thirty-Six Stratagems, a Chinese essay used to illustrate a series of stratagems used in politics, war, and in civil interaction
三十六計，走為上策	of the thirty-six stratagems, the best option is to flee (idiom)
三十年河東，三十年河西	the river flows thirty years to the East, thirty years to the West (proverb)
三十而立	thirty years old and therefore independent (idiom, from Confucius)
三千大千世界	cosmos (Buddhism)
三原縣	Sanyuan, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
三叉戟	trident
三叉神經	trigeminal nerve
三反	"Three Anti" campaign (anti-corruption, anti-waste, anti-bureaucracy), early PRC purge of 1951–52
三反運動	"Three Anti" campaign (anti-corruption, anti-waste, anti-bureaucracy), early PRC purge of 1951-52
三句話不離本行	to talk shop all the time (idiom)
三台縣	Santai, a county in Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
三合一	three in one; triple
三合土	traditional Chinese building material made by mixing three components (typically lime, clay, and sand)
三合星	(astronomy) triple star system
三合會	triad, Chinese crime gang
三合院	residence consisting of structures surrounding a courtyard on three sides
三味線	shamisen, three-stringed Japanese musical instrument
三和弦	(music) triad; three-note chord
三國	Three Kingdoms period (220–280) in Chinese history
三國史記	History of Three Kingdoms (Korean: Samguk Sagi), the oldest extant Korean history, compiled under Kim Busik 金富軾|金富轼[Jin1 Fu4 shi4] in 1145. The three kingdoms are Goguryeo 高句麗|高句丽[Gao1 gou1 li2], Baekje 百濟|百济[Bai3 ji4], Silla 新羅|新罗[Xin1 luo2].
三國志	History of the Three Kingdoms, fourth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], composed by Chen Shou 陳壽|陈寿[Chen2 Shou4] in 289 during Jin Dynasty 晉朝|晋朝[Jin4 chao2], 65 scrolls
三國演義	Romance of the Three Kingdoms by Luo Guanzhong 羅貫中|罗贯中[Luo2 Guan4 zhong1], one of the Four Classic Novels of Chinese literature, a fictional account of the Three Kingdoms at the break-up of the Han around 200 AD, portraying Liu Bei's 劉備|刘备[Liu2 Bei4] Shu Han 蜀漢|蜀汉[Shu3 Han4] as heroes and Cao Cao's 曹操[Cao2 Cao1] Wei 魏[Wei4] as villains
三圍	BWH, abbr. for a woman's three measurements, namely: bust 胸圍|胸围[xiong1 wei2], waist 腰圍|腰围[yao1 wei2] and hip 臀圍|臀围[tun2 wei2]
三大紀律八項注意	the Three Rules of Discipline and Eight Points for Attention, a military doctrine issued in 1928 by Mao Zedong for the Red Army, which included a number of injunctions demanding high standards of behavior and respect for civilians during wartime
三天不打，上房揭瓦	three days without a beating, and a child will scale the roof to rip the tiles (idiom)
三天兩頭	lit. twice every three days (idiom); practically every day; frequently
三天打魚，兩天曬網	lit. to fish for three days and sun-dry the nets for two days (proverb)
三夷教	the three foreign religions that had been introduced to China by the time of the Tang dynasty: Nestorianism, Manichaeism and Zoroastrianism
三妻四妾	(idiom) to have many wives and concubines; to have a harem
三姑六婆	women with disreputable or illegal professions (idiom)
三字經	Three Character Classic, 13th century reading primer consisting of Confucian tenets in lines of 3 characters
三官大帝	the three gods in charge of heaven, earth and water (Daoism)
三家村	(lit.) village of three households
三寶	the Three Precious Treasures of Buddhism, namely: the Buddha 佛, the Dharma 法 (his teaching), and the Sangha 僧 (his monastic order)
三寶太監	Sanbao Eunuch, official title of Zheng He 鄭和|郑和[Zheng4 He2]
三寶鳥	(bird species of China) Oriental dollarbird (Eurystomus orientalis)
三寸不爛之舌	to have a silver tongue; to have the gift of the gab
三寸金蓮	(historical) bound foot (esp. one only three inches long, considered the ideal size of a woman's foot)
三對三鬥牛	three-on-three basketball game
三小	(Tw) (vulgar) what the hell? (from Taiwanese 啥潲, Tai-lo pr. [siánn-siâ], equivalent to Mandarin 什麼|什么[shen2 me5])
三尖杉酯鹼	harringtonine (chemistry)
三尖瓣	(anatomy) tricuspid valve
三局兩勝	best of three
三屜桌	three-drawer desk (traditional Chinese piece of furniture)
三岔口	At the Crossroads, famous opera, based on a story from 水滸傳|水浒传[Shui3 hu3 Zhuan4]
三島由紀夫	Mishima Yukio (1925-1970), Japanese author, pen name of (平岡公威|平冈公威, Hiraoka Kimitake)
三峽	Three Gorges on the Chang Jiang or Yangtze, namely: Qutang Gorge 瞿塘峽|瞿塘峡[Qu2 tang2 Xia2], Wuxia Gorge 巫峽|巫峡[Wu1 Xia2] and Xiling Gorge 西陵峽|西陵峡[Xi1 ling2 Xia2]
三峽大壩	Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze River
三峽水庫	Three Gorges Reservoir on the Changjiang or Yangtze
三度	third (musical interval)
三廂	sedan (automobile body type)
三廢	three types of waste product, namely: waste water 廢水|废水[fei4 shui3], exhaust gas 廢氣|废气[fei4 qi4], industrial slag 廢渣|废渣[fei4 zha1]
三弦	sanxian, large family of 3-stringed plucked musical instruments, with snakeskin covered wooden soundbox and long neck, used in folk music, opera and Chinese orchestra
三得利	Suntory, Japanese beverage company
三從四德	Confucian moral injunctions for women, namely: obey in turn three men father, husband and son, plus the four virtues of morality 德[de2], physical charm 容, propriety in speech 言 and efficiency in needlework 功
三心二意	in two minds about sth (idiom); half-hearted; shilly-shallying
三思而後行	think again and again before acting (idiom); consider carefully in advance
三思而行	think three times then go (idiom); don't act before you've thought it through carefully
三手病	repetitive strain injury (resulting from frequent use of one's thumb, wrist etc)
三折肱	(lit.) break one's arm three times (to become a good doctor); (fig.) extensive experience (esp. gained through repeated hardship)
三折肱為良醫	(lit.) break one's arm three times to become a good doctor (idiom)
三拗湯	san'ao decoction (TCM)
三振	to strike out; strikeout (baseball, softball); (Tw) to ditch
三教	the Three Doctrines (Daoism, Confucianism, Buddhism)
三教九流	the Three Religions (Daoism, Confucianism, Buddhism) and Nine Schools (Confucians, Daoists, Yin-Yang, Legalists, Logicians, Mohists, Political Strategists, Eclectics, Agriculturists)
三文治	(loanword) sandwich
三文魚	salmon (loanword)
三斑	(Tw) common name for paradise fish (Macropodus opercularis)
三族	(old) three generations (father, self and sons)
三旬九食	lit. to have only nine meals in thirty days (idiom)
三明市	Sanming, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
三明治	(loanword) sandwich
三星	three major stars of the Three Stars 參宿|参宿[Shen1 xiu4] Chinese constellation
三星堆	archaeological site of Sanxingdui outside Chengdu (Sichuan), exhibiting remarkable bronze artifacts from the 11-12th centuries BC
三星集團	Samsung Group
三春	the three spring months
三昧	Samadhi (Buddhist term)
三更	third of the five night watch periods 23:00-01:00 (old); midnight
三更半夜	(idiom) in the depth of the night; very late at night
三曹	the Three Caos (Cao Cao 曹操 and his sons Cao Pi 曹丕 and Cao Zhi 曹植), who established the Wei or Cao Wei dynasty 曹魏, and were all three noted poets and calligraphers
三月	March; third month (of the lunar year)
三月份	March
三月街	Third Month Fair, traditional festival of the Bai Nationality 白族[Bai2 zu2]
三朋四友	friends; cronies
三板	sampan
三柱門	(sports) (cricket) wicket (set of stumps and bails)
三框欄	radical 匚[fang1] (Kangxi radical 22)
三條	three of a kind (poker)
三極管	triode (vacuum tube or transistor)
三權分立	separation of powers
三權鼎立	separation of powers
三次	third; three times; (math.) degree three, cubic (equation)
三次元	three-dimensional; the real world (cf. 二次元[er4 ci4 yuan2])
三次冪	(math.) cube; power of 3
三次方	cube (third power, math.)
三次方程	cubic equation (math.)
三次曲線	cubic curve (geometry)
三歸依	the Three Pillars of Faith (Buddha, dharma, sangha), aka 三寶|三宝[san1 bao3]
三段論	syllogism (deduction in logic)
三毛貓	tortoiseshell cat; calico cat
三民主義	Dr Sun Yat-sen's 孫中山|孙中山 Three Principles of the People (late 1890s)
三民區	Sanmin, a district of Kaohsiung City 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 Shi4], Taiwan
三氟化硼	boron trifluoride
三氯化磷	phosphorous trichloride
三氯化鐵	ferric chloride FeCl3
三氯氧磷	phosphorous oxychloride
三氯氰胺	melamine C3H6N6
三氯甲烷	chloroform (trichloromethane CHCl3)
三氯蔗糖	sucralose
三水區	Sanshui, a district of Foshan City 佛山市[Fo2 shan1 Shi4], Guangdong
三江並流	the Three Parallel Rivers of Yunnan Protected Areas, a region in northwestern Yunnan where three major rivers – the Jinsha River (upper Yangtze) 金沙江[Jin1 sha1 Jiang1], Lancang River (Mekong) 瀾滄江|澜沧江[Lan2 cang1 Jiang1], and Nu River (Salween) 怒江[Nu4 Jiang1] – run roughly parallel to each other for over 300 kilometers, recognized as a World Heritage Site
三江侗族自治縣	Sanjiang Dong Autonomous County, in Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
三江平原	Sanjiang or Three rivers plain in Heilongjiang, vast wetland watered by Heilongjiang 黑龍江|黑龙江[Hei1 long2 jiang1] or Amur, Songhua 松花江[Song1 hua1 jiang1], Ussuri 烏蘇里江|乌苏里江[Wu1 su1 li3 jiang1]
三江源	Sanjiangyuan National Nature Reserve, high plateau region of Qinghai containing the headwaters of Changjiang or Yangtze, Huanghe or Yellow River and Lancang or Mekong River
三江生態旅遊區	Sanjiang Ecological Tourist Area in Wenchuan county 汶川縣|汶川县[Wen4 chuan1 xian4], northwest Sichuan
三沙市	Sansha, prefecture-level city in Hainan Province 海南省[Hai3 nan2 Sheng3]
三河市	Sanhe, a county-level city in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
三法司	the three judicial chief ministries (in imperial China)
三洋	Sanyō, Japanese electronics company
三流	third-rate; inferior
三浦	Miura (Japanese surname and place name)
三浦梅園	MIURA Baien (1723-1789), Japanese neo-Confucian philosopher and pioneer economist, author of The Origin of value 價原|价原[Jia4 yuan2]
三溫暖	sauna (loanword) (Tw)
三炮	(Northeastern dialect) simple-minded person
三無	lacking three key attributes (or at least one of them)
三無人員	person without identification papers, a normal residence permit or a source of income
三無企業	enterprise with no premises, capital or regular staff
三無產品	product lacking one or more of three requirements such as production license, inspection certificate, and manufacturer's name and location
三焦	(TCM) the three truncal cavities (thoracic, abdominal and pelvic), known as the "triple heater" or "San Jiao"
三牲	the three sacrificial animals (originally cow, sheep and pig; later pig, chicken and fish)
三班倒	three-shift system (work rostering)
三瓦兩舍	places of pleasure (like brothels, tea houses etc)
三生有幸	the blessing of three lifetimes (idiom)
三用電表	multimeter
三田	Mita, Sanda, Mitsuda etc (Japanese surname or place name)
三甲	3rd rank of candidates who passed the imperial examination
三番五次	over and over again (idiom)
三番兩次	repeatedly (idiom)
三疊紀	Triassic (geological period 250-205m years ago)
三百六十行	all walks of life (idiom); every trade
三皇	the three legendary sovereigns of the third millennium BC: Suiren 燧人[Sui4 ren2], Fuxi 伏羲[Fu2 Xi1] and Shennong 神農|神农[Shen2 nong2], or 天皇|天皇[Tian1 huang2], 地皇|地皇[Di4 huang2] and 人皇|人皇[Ren2 huang2]
三皇五帝	three sovereigns 三皇[san1 huang2] and five emperors 五帝[wu3 di4] of myth and legend
三皇炮捶	Pao Chui (Chinese martial art)
三相點	triple point (thermodynamics)
三硝基甲苯	trinitrotoluene (TNT)
三碳糖	triose (CH2O)3, monosaccharide with three carbon atoms, such as glyceraldehyde 甘油醛[gan1 you2 quan2]
三磷酸腺苷	adenosine triphosphate (ATP)
三秒膠	(Tw) superglue
三稜草	sedge herb (Cyperus rotundus)
三稜鏡	(triangular) prism
三穗縣	Sansui, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
三等分	to trisect
三等分角	(math.) to trisect an angle
三節鞭	three-section staff (old-style weapon)
三級	grade 3; third class; category C
三級士官	staff sergeant
三級片	third category movie (containing sexual or violent content)
三級跳	triple jump (athletics); hop, skip and jump
三級跳遠	triple jump (athletics); hop, skip and jump
三索錦蛇	copperhead race (Elaphe radiata), kind of snake
三維	three-dimensional; 3D
三維空間	three-dimensional space; 3D
三綱五常	three principles and five virtues (idiom)
三緘其口	(idiom) reluctant to speak about it; tight-lipped
三聚氰胺	melamine C3H6N6
三聚體	trimer (chemistry)
三聯式發票	(Tw) triplicate uniform invoice, a type of receipt 統一發票|统一发票[tong3 yi1 fa1 piao4] issued to a business or organization with a VAT identification number or 統一編號|统一编号[tong3 yi1 bian1 hao4]
三聯書店	Joint Publishing, bookstore chain and publisher, founded in Hong Kong in 1948
三聯管	(cell biology) microtubule triplet
三胚層動物	triploblastic animals (having three germ layers)
三胞胎	triplets
三腳兩步	hurriedly; just a few steps away
三腳架	tripod; derrick crane
三腳貓	sb with only rudimentary skills (in a particular area)
三自	abbr. for 三自愛國教會|三自爱国教会[San1 zi4 Ai4 guo2 Jiao4 hui4], Three-Self Patriotic Movement
三自愛國教會	Three-Self Patriotic Movement, PRC government-sanctioned Protestant church from 1949
三自教會	Three-Self Patriotic Movement, PRC government-sanctioned Protestant church from 1949
三色堇	pansy
三色紫羅蘭	pansy
三色貓	calico cat
三茶六飯	lit. to offer three kinds of tea and six different dishes
三菱	Mitsubishi (Japanese conglomerate)
三葉星雲	Trifid Nebula, M20
三葉草	clover; trefoil
三葉蟲	(paleontology) trilobite
三藏	Tripitaka, the three main types of text that collectively constitute the Buddhist canon of scriptures: sutras, commandments and commentaries
三藏法師	Buddhist monk who has mastered the scriptures; (esp.) Xuanzang 玄奘[Xuan2 zang4] (602–664)
三藩之亂	Three feudatories rebellion against Qing 1673-1681 during the reign of Kangxi
三藩叛亂	rebellion against the Qing of 1670s, pacified by Kangxi
三藩市	San Francisco (California)
三蘇	the Three Su's (famous Song dynasty writers Su Xun 蘇洵|苏洵[Su1 Xun2] and his sons Su Shi 蘇軾|苏轼[Su1 Shi4] and Su Zhe 蘇轍|苏辙[Su1 Zhe2])
三號木桿	spoon (golf)
三號電池	C size battery (PRC) (Taiwan equivalent: 二號電池|二号电池[er4 hao4 dian4 chi2])
三親六故	old friends and relatives
三觀	(neologism) the three core personal values: worldview (世界觀|世界观[shi4 jie4 guan1]), view of life (人生觀|人生观[ren2 sheng1 guan1]) and value system (價值觀|价值观[jia4 zhi2 guan1])
三角	triangle; (math.) trigonometry (abbr. for 三角學|三角学[san1 jiao3 xue2])
三角債	triangular debt
三角凳	three-legged stool
三角函數	trigonometric function
三角學	trigonometry
三角巾	sling (for a wounded arm)
三角帶	V-belt (a type of drive belt with a trapezoidal cross-section)
三角座	Triangulum (constellation)
三角形	triangle
三角恐龍	triceratops (dinosaur)
三角戀	love triangle
三角戀愛	love triangle
三角旗	triangular flag; pennant
三角板	set square; triangle (for drawing right angles)
三角柱體	triangular prism (math.)
三角法	trigonometry (math.)
三角洲	delta (geography)
三角測量法	triangulation (surveying)
三角肌	deltoid muscle (over the shoulder)
三角腹帶	athletic supporter
三角褲	briefs; panties
三角褲衩	briefs; panties
三角錐	triangular pyramid (math.)
三角鐵	triangle (musical instrument); angle iron
三角關係	triangular relationship; (esp.) a love triangle
三角龍	triceratops
三言兩句	in a few words (idiom); expressed succinctly
三言兩語	in a few words (idiom); expressed succinctly
三論宗	Three Treatise School (Buddhism)
三貂角	Cape San Diego or Santiao, easternmost point of Taiwan Island
三貞九烈	(of a widow) faithful to the death to her husband's memory
三資企業	foreign, private and joint ventures
三足烏	three-legged Golden Crow that lives in the sun (in northeast Asian and Chinese mythology)
三足金烏	three-legged Golden Crow that lives in the sun (in northeast Asian and Chinese mythology)
三足鼎立	(idiom) to form a tripartite balance of power
三趾啄木鳥	(bird species of China) Eurasian three-toed woodpecker (Picoides tridactylus)
三趾濱鷸	(bird species of China) sanderling (Calidris alba)
三趾翠鳥	(bird species of China) black-backed dwarf kingfisher (Ceyx erithaca)
三趾鴉雀	(bird species of China) three-toed parrotbill (Paradoxornis paradoxus)
三趾鷗	(bird species of China) black-legged kittiwake (Rissa tridactyla)
三跪九叩	to kneel three times and kowtow nine times (formal etiquette on meeting the emperor)
三蹦子	(coll.) motorized three-wheeler
三軍	(in former times) upper, middle and lower army
三軍用命	(of a team) to throw oneself into the battle
三輪車	pedicab; tricycle
三輪車夫	pedicab driver
三農問題	the three core challenges of rural development in mainland China (agriculture 農業|农业[nong2 ye4], rural areas 農村|农村[nong2 cun1] and farmers 農民|农民[nong2 min2]), first identified as a policy focus in the 1990s
三退	withdrawal from the Communist Party, the Communist Youth League, and the Young Pioneers of China
三通	T-joint; T-piece; T-pipe
三連勝	hat-trick (sports)
三道眉草鵐	(bird species of China) meadow bunting (Emberiza cioides)
三邊形	triangle
三部曲	trilogy; (fig.) three-stage process; three-part progression
三都水族自治縣	Sandu Shui Autonomous County, in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
三酸甘油酯	triglyceride
三里屯	Sanlitun (Beijing street name)
三里河	Sanlihe (Beijing street name)
三重	Sanchong, a district of New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
三重奏	trio (musical ensemble)
三鍵	triple bond (chemistry); triple link
三鐵	triathlon (Tw)
三長兩短	unexpected misfortune; unexpected accident; sudden death
三門峽市	Sanmenxia, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
三門縣	Sanmen, a county in Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
三陪小姐	female escort; bar girl
三隻手	pickpocket
三音	third (musical interval, e.g. do-mi)
三音度	third (musical interval)
三項	three items; three events; three terms
三項全能	triathlon
三項式	trinomial (math.)
三頭六臂	(lit.) (having) three heads and six arms (idiom)
三頭肌	triceps muscle; triceps brachii
三顧茅廬	lit. to make three visits to the thatched cottage (idiom) (allusion to an episode in Romance of the Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4] in which Liu Bei 劉備|刘备[Liu2 Bei4] recruits Zhuge Liang 諸葛亮|诸葛亮[Zhu1 ge3 Liang4] to his cause by visiting him three times)
三馬同槽	three horses at the same trough (idiom, alluding to Sima Yi 司馬懿|司马懿[Si1 ma3 Yi4] and his two sons); conspirators under the same roof
三駕馬車	troika; (fig.) three driving forces; three-person leadership structure
三體	trisomy
三體問題	three-body problem (mechanics)
三魂	three immortal souls in Daoism, representing spirit and intellect
三魂七魄	three immortal souls and seven mortal forms in Daoism, contrasting the spiritual and carnal side of man
三鮮	three fresh ingredients (in cooking)
三鹿	Sanlu (brand)
三鹿集團	Sanlu Group, Chinese state-owned dairy products company involved in the 2008 melamine poisoning scandal
三麻	three-player mahjong
三點全露	(slang) naked; nude
三點水	name of "water" radical 氵[shui3] in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 85)
上	(bound form) up; upper; above; previous; first (of multiple parts)
上一個	previous one
上一次當，學一次乖	to take sth as a lesson for next time (idiom); once bitten, twice shy
上一號	(coll.) to go pee; to go to the bathroom
上一頁	preceding page
上上之策	the best policy; the best thing one can do in the circumstances
上下	the top and bottom of sth
上下五千年	Tales from 5000 Years of Chinese History in three volumes by Cao Yuzhang 曹餘章|曹余章[Cao2 Yu2 zhang1]
上下其手	to raise and lower one's hand (idiom); to signal as conspiratorial hint
上下床	bunk bed
上下文	(textual) context
上下文菜單	context menu (computing)
上下班	to start and finish work
上下鋪	bunk bed
上不了檯面	too disreputable, crude or inferior to be presented publicly or taken seriously
上乘	first-class; best quality; also pr. [shang4 sheng4]
上了年紀	to be getting on in years; to be of the older generation
上交	to hand over to; to give to higher authority
上代	previous generation
上任	to take office; previous (incumbent); predecessor
上位	seat of honor; person in a high-ranking position
上位概念	superordinate concept
上位詞	(semantics) hypernym
上佳	excellent; outstanding; great
上來	to come up; to approach; (verb complement indicating success)
上供	to make offerings (to gods or ancestors)
上個	first (of two parts); last (week etc); previous
上個星期	last week
上個月	last month
上傳	to upload
上刀山，下油鍋	lit. to climb mountains of swords and enter cauldrons of boiling oil (idiom)
上刀山，下火海	lit. to climb mountains of swords and enter seas of flames (idiom)
上分	(coll.) (gaming) to progress to the next level; to level up
上刑	severe punishment; worst punishment; to torture
上前	to advance; to step forward
上升	to rise; to go up; to ascend
上升空間	upside; potential to rise
上升趨勢	an upturn; an upward trend
上午	morning
上半	first half
上半場	first half of a game or contest
上半夜	first half of the night (from nightfall to midnight)
上半天	morning
上半年	first half of the year
上半時	first half of a game or contest
上半晌	forenoon; morning; a.m.
上半葉	the first half (of a period)
上半身	the upper body
上半部分	upper part; top half
上去	to go up
上口	to be able to read aloud fluently
上古	the distant past; ancient times; antiquity
上古漢語	Old Chinese (linguistics)
上台	to rise to power (in politics); to go on stage (in the theater)
上司	boss; superior
上合	SCO (Shanghai Cooperation Organization) (abbr. for 上海合作組織|上海合作组织[Shang4 hai3 He2 zuo4 Zu3 zhi1])
上合組織	Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO)
上吊	to hang oneself
上同調	cohomology (invariant of a topological space in math.)
上吐下瀉	to vomit and have diarrhea
上周	last week
上呼吸道感染	upper respiratory tract infection
上品	top-quality
上唇	upper lip; (entomology) labrum
上善若水	the ideal is to be like water (which benefits all living things and does not struggle against them) (quotation from the "Book of Dao" 道德經|道德经[Dao4 de2 jing1])
上回	last time; the previous time
上坡	uphill; upslope; to move upwards
上坡段	uphill section (of a race)
上坡路	uphill road; slope up; fig. upward trend
上城區	Shangcheng, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
上域	(math.) codomain
上報	to report to one's superiors; to appear in the news
上場	on stage; to go on stage; to take the field
上墳	to visit a grave
上外	abbr. for 上海外國語大學|上海外国语大学[Shang4 hai3 Wai4 guo2 yu3 Da4 xue2]
上夜	to be on night duty
上大號	(coll.) to defecate; to poop
上天	Heaven; Providence; God; the sky above; to fly skywards
上天入地	lit. to go up to heaven or down to Hades (idiom)
上天無路，入地無門	lit. there is no road to the sky, nor door into the earth (idiom)
上夸克	up quark (particle physics)
上奏	(historical) to submit a memorial to the throne; to make a formal submission to the emperor
上好	first-rate; top-notch
上學	to go to school; to attend school
上官	two-character surname Shangguan
上家	preceding player (in a game)
上將	general; admiral; air chief marshal
上將軍	top general; commander-in-chief
上尉	captain (military rank)
上層	upper layer
上層建築	superstructure
上山	to climb a hill; to go to the mountains
上山下鄉	to work in the fields (esp. young school-leavers)
上岸	to go ashore; to climb ashore
上峰	peak; summit; (old) higher authorities
上崗	to take up one's post; to go on duty; to take up a job
上工	to go to work; to start work
上市	to hit the market (of a new product)
上市公司	listed company
上帝	God
上年	last year
上年紀	(of a person) to get old
上床	to go to bed; (coll.) to have sex
上座	seat of honor (at a banquet, meeting etc)
上座率	seat occupancy rate; percentage of available seats that are filled (in a theater, cinema, restaurant etc)
上座部	Theravada school of Buddhism
上廁所	to go to the bathroom
上弦	to wind up a watch, clockwork toy etc
上弦月	first quarter moon
上心	carefully; meticulously; to set one's heart on sth
上思縣	Shangsi, a county in Fangchenggang City 防城港市[Fang2 cheng2 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
上手	to obtain; to master; overhand (serve etc)
上揚	(of prices etc) to rise
上揚趨勢	upward trend; tendency to increase
上文	the text above; the preceding text
上新	to introduce new items; to roll out new offerings or content
上新世	Pliocene (geological epoch from 5m-2m years ago)
上方	place above (it); upper part (of it)
上方寶劍	imperial sword (giving bearer plenipotentiary powers)
上旬	first third of a month
上星	to broadcast via satellite; satellite (channel etc)
上星劇	satellite television show
上星期	last week; previous week
上映	to screen; to show (a movie)
上書	to write a letter (to the authorities); to present a petition
上月	last month
上有天堂，下有蘇杭	lit. there is heaven above, and there is 蘇杭|苏杭[Su1 Hang2] below (idiom)
上有政策，下有對策	The higher ups have policies while the lower downs have their own ways of getting around them. (idiom)
上有老下有小	lit. above are the elderly, below are the young (idiom)
上期	previous period (week, month or quarter etc)
上杭縣	Shanghang, a county in Longyan City 龍巖市|龙岩市[Long2 yan2 Shi4], Fujian
上林縣	Shanglin, a county in Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
上架	to put goods on shelves; (of a product) to be available for sale
上栗縣	Shangli, a county in Pingxiang City 萍鄉市|萍乡市[Ping2 xiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
上校	high ranking officer in Chinese army; colonel
上桌	to place (food) on the table; to sit down to eat (at the dining table)
上桿	backswing (golf)
上梁不正下梁歪	lit. If the upper beam is not straight, the lower beam will be crooked (idiom); fig. subordinates imitate their superiors' vices
上榜	to appear on the public roll of successful examinees (i.e. pass an exam)
上樑	to lay an upper beam; (a building's) upper beam
上樓	to go upstairs
上標	superscript
上檔鍵	(computing) Shift key
上次	last time
上款	addressee; name of recipient on painting or scroll
上氣不接下氣	(idiom) to be out of breath; to gasp for air
上水	upper reaches (of a river); to go upstream; to add some water
上汽	abbr. for 上海汽車工業集團|上海汽车工业集团, Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp. (SAIC)
上流	upper class
上流社會	upper class; high society
上浣	first ten days of a lunar month
上浮	to float up
上海	Shanghai municipality (short name 滬|沪[Hu4])
上海交通大學	Shanghai Jiao Tong University
上海合作組織	Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO)
上海外國語大學	Shanghai International Studies University (SISU)
上海大劇院	Shanghai Grand Theater
上海大學	Shanghai University
上海市	Shanghai municipality (short name 滬|沪[Hu4])
上海戲劇學院	Shanghai Theatre Academy
上海文廣新聞傳媒集團	Shanghai Media Group
上海汽車工業集團	Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp. (SAIC)
上海浦東發展銀行	Shanghai Pudong Development Bank
上海環球金融中心	Shanghai World Financial Center (SWFC), skyscraper
上海白菜	baby bok choy; Shanghai bok choy
上海話	Shanghainese; Shanghai dialect
上海證券交易所	Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE)
上海證券交易所綜合股價指數	Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) Composite Index
上海財經大學	Shanghai University of Finance and Economics (SUFE)
上海音樂學院	Shanghai Conservatory of Music
上海體育場	Shanghai Stadium
上游	upper reaches (of a river); upper level; upper echelon
上湯	(regional) stock (used in Chinese cooking)
上演	to screen (a movie); to stage (a play); a screening
上漲	to rise; to go up
上火	to get angry; to suffer from excessive internal heat (TCM)
上焦	(TCM) upper burner, the part of the body within the thoracic cavity (above the diaphragm, including the heart and lungs)
上熱搜	(Internet) (of a search query) to be trending
上片	(of a movie) to start screening (Tw)
上牌	to obtain a license plate
上牙膛	palate (roof of the mouth)
上犬式	upward-facing dog (yoga pose)
上猶縣	Shangyou, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
上班	to go to work; to be on duty; to start work
上班族	office workers (as social group)
上班時間	working hours; office hours
上環	(coll.) to be fitted with an IUD; (of a doctor) to insert an IUD
上田	Ueda (Japanese surname and place name)
上界	upper bound
上當	taken in (by sb's deceit); to be fooled; to be duped
上當受騙	(idiom) to be duped; to get scammed
上疏	(of a court official) to present a memorial to the emperor (old)
上癮	to get into a habit; to become addicted
上發條	to wind up (a watch or other clockwork mechanism)
上皮	(anatomy) epithelium; epithelial tissue
上相	photogenic; (old) high official
上眼瞼	upper eyelid
上眼藥	to apply eye drops; (fig.) to speak ill of sb; to bad-mouth
上瞼	upper eyelid
上確界	supremum (math.); least upper bound
上稅	to pay taxes
上空	the skies above a certain place; (aviation) airspace; (Tw) topless
上第	top notch; highest quality
上等	highest quality; top-notch
上等兵	private first class (army rank)
上策	best course of action; best policy
上算	to be worthwhile; to be worth it
上箭頭	up-pointing arrow
上箭頭鍵	up arrow key (on keyboard)
上籃	(basketball) layup
上級	higher authorities; superiors
上級領導	high-level leadership; top brass
上綱上線	to make a mountain out of a molehill
上網	to go online; to connect to the Internet
上網本	netbook
上緊發條	to wind the spring up tight; (fig.) to gear up; to ready oneself
上線	to go online; to put sth online; to reach a specific standard
上繳	to transfer (income, profits etc) to higher authorities
上聲	falling and rising tone; third tone in modern Mandarin
上肢	upper limb (from shoulder to fingertips)
上膘	(of livestock) to fatten up; to put on weight
上膛	roof of the mouth; to load a gun
上臂	upper arm
上臉	to turn red in the face (while drinking)
上船	to get on the boat
上色	to color (a picture etc); to dye (fabric etc)
上艾瑟爾	Overijssel, province of the Netherlands
上菜	to serve food
上菜秀	dinner show; dinner and floor show
上萬	over ten thousand; fig. untold numbers; innumerable
上蒼	Heaven; God
上蔡縣	Shangcai, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
上虞區	Shangyu, a district of Shaoxing City 紹興市|绍兴市[Shao4 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
上行	(of trains) up (i.e. towards the capital)
上行下傚	subordinates follow the example of their superiors (idiom)
上街	to go onto the streets; to go shopping
上街區	Shangjie, a district of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
上衣	jacket; upper outer garment
上裝	upper garment
上西天	(Buddhism) to go to the Western Paradise; (fig.) to die
上覆	to inform
上訪	to seek an audience with higher-ups (esp. government officials) to petition for sth
上訴	to appeal (a judicial case); appeal
上訴法院	appeals court
上課	to go to class; to attend class; to go to teach a class
上調	to raise (prices); to adjust upwards
上諭	imperial edict
上證	Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), abbr. for 上海證券交易所|上海证券交易所[Shang4 hai3 Zheng4 quan4 Jiao1 yi4 suo3]
上證綜合指數	SSE (Shanghai Stock Exchange) Composite Index
上議院	Upper Chamber; Upper House; Senate
上貢	to present tribute (to a suzerain, the emperor etc)
上賊船	lit. to board a pirate ship (idiom); fig. to associate with criminals
上路	to start on a journey; to be on one's way
上身	upper part of the body; to put on (clothes on the upper body)
上車	to get on or into (a bus, train, car etc)
上軌道	to stay on track; to proceed smoothly
上載	to upload; also pr. [shang4zai4]
上輩	ancestors; one's elders
上輩子	one's ancestors; past generations; a former incarnation
上農	a rich farmer
上述	aforementioned; above-mentioned
上進	to make progress; to do better; fig. ambitious to improve oneself
上進心	ambition; desire for self-improvement
上達	to reach the higher authorities
上邊	the top; above; overhead
上部	upper section
上都	Shangdu, also known as Xanadu, summer capital of the Yuan Dynasty (1279-1368)
上野	Ueno, district in Taitō Ward, Tokyo; Ueno (Japanese surname)
上鉤	to take the bait
上鎖	to lock; to be locked
上鏡	photogenic; to appear on film or in the media
上鐘	to clock in for work
上門	to drop in; to visit; to lock a door
上門女婿	live-in son-in-law; husband living with the wife's family
上門客	bricks-and-mortar customer; walk-in customer
上門費	house call fee; callout fee
上限	upper bound
上陣	to go into battle
上雲	(computing) to migrate to the cloud
上面	on top of; above-mentioned; also pr. [shang4 mian5]
上面級	(rocketry) upper stage
上鞋	to sole a shoe; to stitch the sole to the upper
上頁	previous page
上頜	maxilla (upper jaw)
上頜骨	maxilla (upper jaw)
上頭	(of alcohol, love etc) to go to one's head; (of an idea, a song etc) to get into one's head; to capture one's attention
上顎正門齒	maxillary central incisor
上風	on the up; currently winning; rising (in popularity etc)
上館子	to eat out; to eat at a restaurant
上饒市	Shangrao, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
上首	seat of honor; first place
上香	to offer incense (at a temple etc)
上馬	to get on a horse; to mount
上高縣	Shanggao, a county in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
上黨區	Shangdang, a district of Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
上齒	upper teeth
上龍	pliosaurus
下	down; downwards; below
下一代	the next generation
下一個	the next one
下一次	next; coming; forthcoming; next time; the next occasion
下一步	the next step
下一站	the next stop (of a bus etc)
下一頁	next page
下三濫	riffraff; scum; lowlife
下不了臺	to be unable to extricate oneself gracefully; to be put on the spot
下不來	awkward; embarrassed; cannot be accomplished
下不來臺	to be put on the spot; to find oneself in an awkward situation
下不為例	not to be repeated; not to be taken as a precedent; just this once
下世	to die; future incarnation; next life
下丘腦	hypothalamus (anatomy)
下九流	the lowest professions
下乳	to promote lactation (TCM); (coll.) underboob
下人	(old) servant; (dialect) children; grandchildren
下令	to give an order; to issue an order
下任	next office holder; next to serve
下位詞	(semantics) hyponym
下作	contemptible; disgusting
下來	to come down; (completed action marker)
下修	to revise downward
下個	second (of two parts); next (week etc); subsequent
下個星期	next week
下個月	next month
下凡	(of immortals) to descend to the human world
下列	the following; listed below
下劃線	underscore _; underline
下午	afternoon; p.m.
下午好	(greeting) good afternoon
下午茶	afternoon tea (light afternoon meal, typically pastries with tea or coffee)
下半	second half
下半場	second half of a game or contest
下半夜	second half of the night (from midnight to sunrise)
下半天	afternoon
下半年	second half of the year
下半旗	to fly a flag at half-mast as a sign of mourning
下半時	second half of a game or contest
下半身	lower half of one's body
下去	to go down; to descend; to go on
下同	similarly hereinafter
下咽	(anatomy) hypopharynx
下咽癌	hypopharyngeal cancer
下唇	lower lip
下單	to place an order; to order
下嚥	to swallow (food or drink)
下回	next chapter; next time
下地	to go down to the fields; to get up from bed; to leave one's sickbed
下坡	downhill slope
下坡路	downhill road; (fig.) downhill path
下垂	to droop; to sag; to hang down
下場	to leave (the stage, an exam room, the playing field etc)
下場門	exit door (of the stage)
下墜	(of objects) to fall; to drop; to droop
下士	lowest-ranked noncommissioned officer (e.g. corporal in the army or petty officer, third class in the navy)
下夸克	down quark (particle physics)
下奶	to produce milk; to lactate; to promote lactation
下嫁	(of a woman) to marry a man of lower social status; to marry down
下定決心	to make a firm resolution
下定義	to define
下家	player whose turn comes next (in a game); next one; my humble home
下寒武	lower Cambrian (geological period approx 530 million years ago)
下寒武統	lower Cambrian series (geological strata from approx 530 million years ago)
下屆	next office holder; next to serve
下層	underlayer; lower class; lower strata
下屬	subordinate; underling
下屬公司	subsidiary (company)
下山	to go down a hill; (of the sun or moon) to set
下崗	(of a guard, sentry etc) to come off duty
下崽	(of animals) to give birth; to foal, to whelp etc
下工	to knock off (at the end of a day's work); to finish work
下工夫	to put in time and energy; to concentrate one's efforts
下巴	chin
下巴頦	chin
下廚	to go to the kitchen (to prepare a meal); to cook
下弦	last quarter, aka third quarter (phase of the moon)
下弦月	third quarter moon, aka last quarter moon
下情	feelings of the masses; my situation (humble speech)
下意識	subconscious mind
下手	to start; to put one's hand to; to set about
下拜	to bow down low; to make obeisance; to kneel and bow
下挫	(of sales, prices etc) to fall; to drop; decline
下擺	hem of a skirt; shirt tail
下放	to delegate; to decentralize
下文	the text below; the following text
下方	underneath; below; the underside
下旋	(sport) backspin
下旋削球	(golf, tennis) undercut
下旬	last third of the month
下星期	next week
下月	next month
下期	next period (week, month or quarter etc)
下架	to take down from the shelves (e.g. a contaminated product)
下棋	to play chess
下榻	to stay (at a hotel etc during a trip)
下樓	to go downstairs
下標	subscript; suffix; index
下檔	(Tw) (of a film, TV drama etc) to end its run; to stop being shown
下檻	(architecture) doorsill
下次	next time
下款	signature on letter; name of donor
下死勁	to do one's utmost
下毒	to put poison in sth; to poison
下毒手	to attack murderously; to strike treacherously
下毛毛雨	to drizzle; to rain lightly
下水	downstream; to go into the water; to put into water
下水禮	launching ceremony
下水管	drainpipe
下水道	underground drain; sewer
下決心	to determine; to resolve
下沉	to sink down
下沉市場	the Chinese market, excluding first- and second-tier cities
下注	to pour; to pour down (of rain); to lay a bet
下流	lower course of a river; low-class; mean and lowly
下浣	last ten days of the lunar month
下浮	downward fluctuation (of prices etc)
下海	to go out to sea; to enter the sea (to swim etc)
下港	(Tw) southern Taiwan (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [ē-káng])
下游	lower reaches (of a river); lower level; lower echelon
下滑	to slide down (a slope etc); (fig.) to decline
下焦	(TCM) lower burner, the part of the body within the pelvic cavity (below the navel, including the kidneys, bladder and intestines)
下片	to stop screening a movie; to end the run of a movie
下犬式	downward-facing dog (yoga pose)
下狠心	to resolve (to do sth); to toughen up
下獄	to imprison
下班	to finish work; to get off work; next service (train, bus etc)
下田	to go out to work in the fields
下界	lower bound (math.); world of mortals
下畫線	underline
下發	to issue (a memorandum etc) to lower levels
下眼瞼	lower eyelid
下確界	(math.) infimum; greatest lower bound
下筆	to put pen to paper
下箭頭	down-pointing arrow
下箭頭鍵	down arrow key (on keyboard)
下箸	(literary) to eat
下級	low ranking; low level; underclass
下網	to cast a fishing net; (computing) to go offline
下線	to go offline; (of a product) to roll off the assembly line
下線儀式	product launching ceremony
下聘	to send the betrothal gifts; (fig.) to conclude a marriage
下肚	to consume (food or drink); to eat; to drink
下肢	lower limb (from hip to toes)
下腰	(gymnastics) to do a bridge; to do a crab
下腳	to get a footing
下腳料	remnants of material from an industrial process; offcut; scraps
下腹部	lower abdomen
下至上	bottom to top
下臺	to go off the stage; to fall from position of prestige
下臺階	to extricate oneself; way out
下花園區	Xiahuayuan, a district of Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
下落	whereabouts; to drop; to fall
下落不明	unaccounted; unknown whereabouts
下葬	to bury; to inter
下藥	to prescribe medicine; to drug; to poison
下蛋	to lay eggs
下行	(of trains) down (i.e. away from the capital)
下裝	to take off costume and makeup; bottom garment (trousers etc)
下西洋	to sail west (from China) (used in reference to the 15th century voyages of Zheng He 鄭和|郑和[Zheng4 He2] to regions bordering the Indian Ocean)
下視	to look down from above; (fig.) to look down on; to despise
下視丘	(anatomy) hypothalamus (Tw)
下訂單	to place an order (commerce)
下設	(of an organization) to have as a subunit
下詔	to hand down an imperial edict
下課	to finish class; to get out of class
下調	to adjust downwards; to lower (prices, wages etc)
下議院	lower chamber (of legislative body); lower house; the House of Commons
下賤	humble; lowly; depraved
下跌	to fall; to tumble
下跪	to kneel; to go down on one's knees
下蹲翻	(weightlifting) clean; squat clean
下身	lower part of the body; genitalia; trousers
下車	to get off or out of (a bus, train, car etc)
下載	to download; also pr. [xia4zai4]
下輩	offspring; future generations; younger generation of a family
下輩子	the next life
下轄	to administer; to have jurisdiction over
下逐客令	to ask sb to leave; to show sb the door
下週	next week
下達	to transmit to lower levels; to issue (a command, decree etc)
下邊	under; the underside; below
下鄉	to go to the countryside
下酒	to be appropriate to have with alcohol; to down one's drink
下酒菜	dish that goes well with alcoholic drinks; snack eaten with drinks
下里巴人	folk songs of the state of Chu 楚國|楚国[Chu3 guo2]
下野	to step down from office; to go into opposition
下錨	to drop anchor
下鍋	to put into the pot (to cook)
下關	Shimonoseki (city in Japan)
下降	to decline; to drop; to fall
下限	lower bound
下院	lower house (of parliament)
下陰	the genitals
下陷	to subside; subsidence
下陸區	Xialu, a district of Huangshi City 黃石市|黄石市[Huang2 shi2 Shi4], Hubei
下雨	to rain
下雪	to snow
下面	below; under; next
下頁	next page
下頜	lower jaw; mandible
下頜下腺	submandibular salivary gland
下頜骨	lower jaw; mandible
下頦	chin; Taiwan pr. [xia4hai2]
下頭	(slang) (of a person or manner) off-putting; (slang) to feel put off
下頷	lower jaw; mandible
下頷骨	lower jawbone; mandible
下顎	mandible (lower jaw)
下風	leeward; downwind; disadvantageous position
下飛機	to get off a plane; to deplane
下飯	to eat one's rice with an accompanying dish (to make the rice more palatable)
下館子	to eat out; to eat at a restaurant
下馬	to dismount from a horse; (fig.) to abandon (a project)
下馬威	display of severity immediately on taking office
下馱	geta (Japanese clogs)
下體	the lower part of the body (usu. a euphemism for the genitals)
下麵	to boil noodles
下鼻甲	inferior nasal conchae
下齒	bottom teeth
下龍灣	Ha Long Bay, Vietnam
丌	"pedestal" component in Chinese characters
不	no; not so; (bound form) not; un-
不一	to vary; to differ
不一定	not necessarily; maybe
不一會	soon
不一樣	different; distinctive; unlike
不一而足	by no means an isolated case; numerous
不一致字	(orthography) inconsistent words (e.g. "through", "bough" and "rough", where "-ough" is not pronounced the same in each case)
不三不四	(idiom) dubious; shady; neither one thing nor the other; neither fish nor fowl; nondescript
不下	to be not less than (a certain quantity, amount etc)
不下於	as many as; no less than; not inferior to; as good as; on a par with
不中意	not to one's liking
不中用	unfit for anything; no good; useless
不丹	Bhutan
不主故常	not to stick to the old conventions
不久	not long (after); before too long; soon
不久前	not long ago
不乏	there is no lack of
不乾不淨	unclean; filthy; foul-mouthed
不乾不淨，吃了沒病	a little dirt never killed anybody (proverb)
不了	no thanks (used to politely but informally decline)
不了了之	to settle a matter by leaving it unsettled
不予	(formal) not to (do sth)
不予理會	to ignore; to brush off; to dismiss
不予置評	to make no comment; "no comment"
不予評論	No comment!
不事張揚	quietly; without ostentation
不事生產	not to do anything productive; to idle away one's time
不二	the only (choice, way etc); undivided (loyalty)
不二價	one price for all; fixed price
不二法門	the one and only way; the only proper course to take
不亞	no less than; not inferior to
不亞於	no less than; not inferior to
不亢不卑	neither haughty nor humble; neither overbearing nor servile
不亦	(literary) isn't it truly …?; how … it is!
不亦樂乎	lit. isn't that a joy? (quote from Confucius)
不人道	inhuman
不仁	not benevolent; heartless; numb
不以人廢言	not to reject a word because of the speaker (idiom, from Analects); to judge on the merits of the case rather than preference between advisers
不以為意	not to mind; unconcerned
不以為然	not to accept as correct (idiom); to object; to disapprove
不以物喜，不以己悲	not to become attached to material things, not to pity oneself
不以規矩，不能成方圓	without rules, nothing can be done (idiom, from Mencius); one must follow some rules
不以詞害誌	don't let rhetoric spoil the message (idiom); don't get carried away with flowery speech to the detriment of what you want to say
不以辭害志	don't let rhetoric spoil the message (idiom); don't get carried away with flowery speech to the detriment of what you want to say
不休	endlessly; ceaselessly
不但	not only (... but also ...)
不住	(verb complement) unable to firmly or securely (grasp, recall etc)
不作死就不會死	serves you right for doing sth so stupid (Internet slang)
不作為	nonfeasance; omission (law)
不佞	without eloquence; untalented; I, me (humble)
不佳	not good
不來梅	Bremen (city in Germany)
不來梅港	Bremerhaven, German port
不依	not to comply; not to go along with; not to let off easily
不依不饒	not to overlook, nor spare (idiom); unwilling to forgive
不便	inconvenient; inappropriate; unsuitable
不便險	travel insurance covering flight delay, baggage loss etc (abbr. for 旅遊不便保險|旅游不便保险[lu : 3 you2 bu4 bian4 bao3 xian3])
不俗	impressive; out of the ordinary
不信任動議	motion of no confidence (against the government, in parliamentary debates)
不信任投票	vote of no-confidence
不信任案	no-confidence motion
不修邊幅	not care about one's appearance (idiom); slovenly in dress and manner
不倒翁	roly-poly toy
不倦	tireless; untiring; indefatigable
不倫	(of a relationship) improper (adulterous, incestuous, teacher-student etc)
不倫不類	out of place; inappropriate; incongruous
不值	not worth
不值一文	worthless (idiom); no use whatsoever
不值一笑	of no value; worthless
不值一駁	(idiom) (of an argument) not even worthy of a rebuttal
不值得	unworthy
不值錢	of little value
不假思索	(idiom) to act without taking time to think; to react instantly; to fire from the hip
不偏不倚	(idiom) even-handed; impartial; unbiased
不偏斜	not leaning to one side; impartial; even-handed
不做聲	keep silent; not say a word
不做虧心事，不怕鬼敲門	he who never wrongs others does not fear the knock in the night; you can rest with a clear conscience
不停	incessant
不偷不搶	to be law-abiding (idiom)
不備	unprepared; off guard
不傷脾胃	lit. doesn't hurt the spleen or the stomach
不僅	not just; not limited to
不僅僅	not only; not just
不僅如此	not only that, but ...
不像樣	in no shape to be seen; unpresentable; beyond recognition
不像話	unreasonable; shocking; outrageous
不光	not the only one; not only
不光彩	disgraceful; dishonorable
不克	cannot; to not be able (to); to be unable to
不免	inevitably
不免一死	cannot avoid being killed; cannot escape death; to be mortal
不兒	(coll.) no (contracted form of 不是[bu4 shi4])
不兒道	(dialect) contracted form of 不知道[bu4 zhi1 dao4]
不入時宜	out of step with current thinking; outmoded
不入虎穴，焉得虎子	How do you catch the tiger cub without entering the tiger's lair? (idiom); Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
不公	unjust; unfair
不共戴天	(idiom) (of enemies) cannot live under the same sky; absolutely irreconcilable
不兼容性	incompatibility
不再	no more; no longer
不准	not to allow; to forbid; to prohibit
不准許	forbidden; not allowed
不凍港	ice-free port; open port
不凡	extraordinary; remarkable; exceptional
不出所料	as expected
不分	not to distinguish; to make no distinction
不分上下	not to know one's place
不分伯仲	lit. unable to distinguish eldest brother from second brother (idiom); they are all equally excellent
不分勝敗	to not be able to distinguish who's winning
不分勝負	unable to determine victory or defeat (idiom); evenly matched
不分彼此	to make no distinction between what's one's own and what's another's (idiom)
不分情由	indiscriminate
不分晝夜	day and night; round-the-clock
不分皂白	not distinguishing black or white (idiom); not to distinguish between right and wrong
不分系	to enroll without declaring one's major or department (in one's first year(s) of university)
不分軒輊	well-matched; equally matched
不分青紅皂白	not distinguishing red-green or black-white (idiom)
不分高下	equally matched; not much to distinguish who is stronger
不切合實際	impractical; not conforming to reality
不切實際	unrealistic; impractical
不刊之論	indisputable statement; unalterable truth
不划算	it isn't worth it; not cost-effective; not profitable
不列顛	Britain; British; Great Britain
不列顛哥倫比亞	British Columbia, Pacific province of Canada
不列顛哥倫比亞省	British Columbia, Pacific province of Canada
不列顛戰役	Battle of Britain (Jul-Oct 1940)
不列顛諸島	British Isles
不利	unfavorable; disadvantageous; harmful
不到	not to arrive; not reaching; insufficient
不到火候不揭鍋	don't act until the time is ripe (idiom)
不到長城非好漢	lit. until you reach the Great Wall, you're not a proper person; fig. to get over difficulties before reaching the goal
不到黃河心不死	lit. not to stop until one reaches the Yellow River (idiom)
不力	not to do one's best; not to exert oneself
不加	without; not; un-
不加修飾	undecorated; unvarnished; no frills
不加區別	indiscriminate
不加拘束	unrestricted
不加掩飾	undisguised
不加理睬	without giving due consideration; to ignore; to overlook
不加選擇	indiscriminate
不動	motionless
不動搖	unmoved
不動產	real estate; immovable property; immovables
不動聲色	not a word or movement (idiom); remaining calm and collected
不動點	fixed point (of a map) (math.)
不動點定理	fixed point theorem (math.)
不務正業	not to engage in honest work; to ignore one's proper occupation
不勝	cannot bear or stand; be unequal to; very
不勝其擾	unable to put up with (sth) any longer
不勝其煩	to be pestered beyond endurance
不勝其苦	unable to bear the pain (idiom)
不勝枚舉	too numerous to mention individually or one by one
不勝酒力	to become intoxicated after having only one or two drinks
不勞而獲	(idiom) to reap without sowing; to get sth without working for it; to sponge off others
不匱	(literary) to never have a deficiency; to never be lacking
不區分大小寫	case insensitive; not distinguishing capitals from lowercase letters
不卑不亢	neither servile nor overbearing (idiom)
不協調	uncoordinated; disharmony
不即不離	to be neither too familiar nor too distant; to keep sb at arm's length
不厭	not to tire of; not to object to
不厭其煩	not to mind taking all the trouble (idiom); to take great pains
不去理	not to pay attention to; to leave sth as it is; to ignore
不及	to fall short of; not as good as; too late
不及格	to fail; to flunk
不及物動詞	intransitive verb
不受歡迎	unwelcome
不只	not only; not merely
不可	cannot; should not; must not
不可一世	(idiom) to consider oneself unexcelled in the world; to be insufferably arrogant
不可以	may not
不可估量	inestimable; incalculable; beyond measure
不可侵犯	inviolable
不可分割	inalienable; unalienable; inseparable
不可分離	inseparable
不可勝數	countless; innumerable
不可勝言	inexpressible (idiom); beyond description
不可同日而語	lit. mustn't speak of two things on the same day (idiom); not to be mentioned in the same breath
不可名狀	indescribable; beyond description
不可告人	(idiom) to be kept secret; not to be divulged
不可多得	hard to come by; rare
不可導	not differentiable (function in calculus)
不可少	indispensable; essential
不可思議	(idiom) inconceivable; unimaginable; unfathomable
不可或缺	necessary; must have
不可抗力	force majeure; act of God
不可抗拒	act of God; force majeure (law); irresistible (idiom)
不可挽回	irreversible
不可撤銷信用證	irrevocable letter of credit
不可收拾	(idiom) irremediable; unmanageable; out of hand; hopeless
不可數	uncountable
不可數名詞	uncountable noun (in grammar of European languages)
不可數集	uncountable set (math.)
不可枚舉	innumerable (idiom)
不可理喻	(idiom) impervious to reason; unreasonable
不可知論	agnosticism, the philosophical doctrine that some questions about the universe are in principle unanswerable
不可磨滅	indelible
不可端倪	impossible to get even an outline (idiom); unfathomable; not a clue
不可終日	to be unable to carry on even for a single day
不可缺少	indispensable
不可置信	unbelievable; incredible
不可能	impossible; cannot
不可解	insoluble (i.e. impossible to solve)
不可言喻	inexpressible (idiom)
不可逆	irreversible
不可逆轉	irreversible
不可逾越	impassable; insurmountable; insuperable
不可避免	(idiom) inevitable; unavoidable
不可開交	to be awfully (busy etc)
不合	to not conform to; to be unsuited to; to be out of keeping with
不合作	noncooperation
不合時宜	out of step with current thinking; outmoded
不合法	illegal
不合理	unreasonable
不合體統	not according with decorum; scandalous; bad form
不吉	unlucky; inauspicious; ominous
不吉利	ominous
不同	different; distinct; not the same
不同凡響	lit. not a common chord (idiom); outstanding; brilliant
不同尋常	out of the ordinary; unusual
不名一文	without a penny to one's name; penniless; stony-broke
不名一錢	to be penniless
不名數	abstract number
不名譽	disreputable; disgraceful
不吐不快	to have to pour out what's on one's mind (idiom)
不吐氣	unaspirated
不吝	not to stint; to be generous (with praise etc); to be prepared to (pay a fee, give of one's time etc)
不吝珠玉	(idiom) (courteous) please give me your frank opinion; your criticism will be most valuable
不吝賜教	to be so kind as to enlighten me
不含糊	unambiguous; unequivocal; explicit
不周	not satisfactory; thoughtless; inconsiderate
不周山	Buzhou Mountain, a mountain from Chinese legend
不周延	undistributed
不咋地	(dialect) not that great; not up to much; nothing special
不咋的	(dialect) not that great; not up to much; nothing special
不和	not to get along well; to be on bad terms; to be at odds
不咎既往	not censure sb for his past misdeeds; overlook sb's past mistakes
不問	to pay no attention to; to disregard; to ignore
不問青紅皂白	not distinguishing red-green or black-white (idiom)
不啻	just as; no less than; like (sth momentous)
不啻天淵	no less than from heaven to the abyss (idiom); differing widely
不善	bad; ill; not good at
不喜勿噴	(Internet slang) if you don't like it, don't flame; please don't attack me if you disagree
不單	not the only; not merely; not simply
不圓通	inflexible; unaccommodating
不圖	not to seek (sth); to have no expectation of (sth)
不在	not to be present; to be out; (euphemism) to pass away
不在乎	not to care
不在了	to be dead; to have passed away
不在其位，不謀其政	don't meddle in affairs that are not part of your position (Confucius)
不在意	to pay no attention to; not to mind
不在狀態	to be out of form; not to be oneself
不在話下	to be nothing difficult; to be a cinch
不均	uneven; distributed unevenly
不堪	cannot bear; cannot stand; utterly
不堪一擊	(idiom) unable to withstand a single blow; to collapse at the first blow
不堪入目	unbearable to look at; an eyesore
不堪入耳	(idiom) (of speech, music etc) vulgar; offensive to the ear
不堪忍受	unbearable
不堪設想	too horrible to contemplate; unthinkable; inconceivable
不外	not beyond the scope of; nothing more than
不外乎	nothing else but
不外露	not exposed; concealed from view
不夠	not enough; insufficient; inadequate
不大	not very (clear, far away etc); not too; not often; infrequently
不大離	pretty close; just about right; not bad
不太好	not so good; not too well
不失	still possesses; yet retains (some positive attribute that contrasts with another of its attributes)
不失時機	to seize the opportune moment; to lose no time
不失為	can be regarded as; qualifies as (something positive)
不好	no good
不好受	unpleasant; hard to take
不好惹	not to be trifled with; not to be pushed around; stand no nonsense
不好意思	to feel embarrassed; to find it embarrassing
不好說	hard to say; can't be sure
不如	not equal to; not as good as; inferior to; it would be better to
不如人意	leaving much to be desired; unsatisfactory; undesirable
不妙	(of a turn of events) not too encouraging; far from good
不妥	not proper; inappropriate
不妥協	uncompromising
不妨	there is no harm in; might as well
不孕	infertile; unable to conceive a child; infertility
不孕症	female infertility
不孚眾望	not living up to expectations (idiom)
不孝	unfilial
不孝有三，無後為大	there are three ways to be unfilial; having no sons is the worst (from Mencius 孟子[Meng4 zi3])
不學無術	without learning or skills (idiom); ignorant and incompetent
不安	unpeaceful; unstable; uneasy
不安其室	(idiom) (of a married woman) to be unfaithful; to have extramarital affairs
不安分	restless; unsettled
不安好心	to have bad intentions
不完全歸納推理	inference by incomplete induction
不完全葉	(botany) an incomplete leaf – one that lacks a lamina, petiole, or stipule
不完善	imperfect
不定	indefinite; indeterminate; (botany) adventitious
不定元	indeterminate element (math.), often denoted by x
不定冠詞	indefinite article (e.g. English a, an)
不定式	infinitive (grammar)
不定形	indeterminate form
不定方程	(math.) indeterminate equation
不定期	non-scheduled; irregularly
不定積分	indefinite integral (math.)
不定詞	infinitive
不宜	not suitable; inadvisable; inappropriate
不客氣	you're welcome; don't mention it; impolite
不宣而戰	open hostilities without declaring war; start an undeclared war
不容	must not; cannot; to not allow
不容小覷	(idiom) not to be underestimated; not to be taken lightly
不容置疑	unquestionable
不容置辯	peremptory; not to be denied; not brooking argument
不寒而慄	lit. not cold, yet shivering (idiom); fig. to tremble with fear
不實	untrue; false; unfounded; (literary) (of a plant) to not bear fruit
不對	incorrect; wrong; amiss
不對勁	not right; amiss; to feel uncomfortable or unwell; to not get along
不對勁兒	erhua form of 不對勁|不对劲[bu4 dui4 jin4]
不對盤	(of a person) objectionable
不對碴兒	not proper; not fit for the occasion
不對稱	unsymmetrical; asymmetric
不對頭	fishy; not right; amiss
不少	many; quite a few; a good number of
不屈	unyielding; unbending
不屈不撓	unyielding; indomitable
不屑	to disdain to do sth; to think sth not worth doing
不屑一顧	to disdain as beneath contempt (idiom)
不巧	too bad; unfortunately; as luck would have it
不差	to not lack
不已	(used after a verb) endlessly; incessantly
不帶	not to have; without; un-
不帶電	uncharged; electrically neutral
不干涉	noninterference; nonintervention
不平	uneven; injustice; unfairness
不平凡	marvelous; marvelously
不平則鳴	where there is injustice, there will be an outcry
不平常	remarkable; remarkably; unusual
不平等	inequality; unfairness
不平等條約	(term coined c. 1920s) unequal treaty – a treaty between China and one or more aggressor nations (including Russia, Japan and various Western powers) which imposed humiliating conditions on China (in the 19th and early 20th centuries)
不平衡	disequilibrium
不幸	misfortune; adversity; unfortunate
不幸之事	mishap
不幸之幸	a fortune in misfortune; a positive in the negative
不幸言中	to turn out just as one predicted or feared
不待說	needless to say; it goes without saying
不很	not very
不得	must not; may not; not to be allowed
不得不	have no choice or option but to; cannot but; have to
不得了	desperately serious; disastrous; extremely
不得人心	not to enjoy popular support; to be unpopular
不得其門而入	to be unable to get into (a house, an organization, a field of study, a particular type of career etc)
不得勁	awkward; unhandy; be indisposed
不得已	to act against one's will; to have no alternative but to; to have to
不得已而為之	to have no other choice; to be the last resort
不得而知	unknown; unable to find out
不得要領	to fail to grasp the main points
不復	no longer; not again
不必	need not; does not have to; not necessarily
不必要	needless; unnecessary
不忍	cannot bear to
不忍心	can't bear to (do sth emotionally painful)
不忙	(polite formula) there's no hurry; take your time
不快	unhappy; in low spirits; (of a knife) not sharp
不忮不求	(idiom) to be free of jealousy or greed
不念舊惡	do not recall old grievances (idiom, from Analects); forgive and forget
不忿	unsatisfied; unconvinced; indignant
不怎麼	not very; not particularly
不怎麼樣	not up to much; very indifferent; nothing great about it
不怒而威	(idiom) to have an aura of authority; to have a commanding presence
不怕	fearless; not worried (by setbacks or difficulties); even if
不怕一萬，就怕萬一	better to be safe than sorry (proverb); to be prepared just in case
不怕不識貨，只怕貨比貨	lit. don't worry about not knowing goods, but about comparing them (proverb)
不怕不識貨，就怕貨比貨	lit. don't worry about not knowing goods, but about comparing them (proverb)
不怕官，只怕管	lit. it is not an official to be feared, but a person in direct control over sb (proverb)
不怕慢，就怕站	it's better to make slow progress than no progress at all (proverb)
不怕神一樣的對手，就怕豬一樣的隊友	(saying) a boneheaded teammate can do you more harm than the most formidable opponent
不怕賊偷就怕賊惦記	much worse than having something stolen is when a thief has you in his sights (idiom)
不怠	unremitting in one's efforts
不急之務	(idiom) a matter of no great urgency
不恤	not to worry; not to show concern
不恤人言	not to worry about the gossip (idiom); to do the right thing regardless of what others say
不恥下問	not feel ashamed to ask and learn from one's subordinates
不恭	disrespectful
不息	continually; without a break; ceaselessly
不悅	displeased; annoyed
不患寡而患不均	do not worry about scarcity, but rather about uneven distribution (idiom, from Analects)
不悱不發	a student should not be guided until he has made an effort to express his thoughts (idiom)
不情之請	(idiom) (humble expression) my presumptuous request
不情願	unwilling
不惑	without doubt; with full self-confidence; forty years of age
不惜	not stint; not spare; not hesitate (to do sth)
不惜一戰	to be ready to go to war
不惜血本	to spare no effort; to devote all one's energies
不惟	not only
不想	unexpectedly; to one's surprise
不愉快	disagreeable; unpleasant
不意	unexpectedly; unawareness; unpreparedness
不愧	to be worthy of; to deserve to be called; to prove oneself to be
不愧下學	not ashamed to learn from subordinates (idiom)
不愧不怍	no shame, no subterfuge (idiom); just and honorable
不慌不忙	(idiom) calm; unhurried; composed
不慍不火	calm; unruffled
不慎	incautious; inattentive
不憚	(literary) unafraid
不憤不啟	a student shall not be enlightened until he has tried hard by himself (idiom)
不懂裝懂	to pretend to understand when you don't
不懈	untiring; unremitting; indefatigable
不懈怠	untiring; without slacking
不應期	refractory period (physiology)
不懷好意	(idiom) to harbor evil designs; to harbor malicious intentions
不成	won't do; unable to
不成功便成仁	to succeed or die trying (idiom)
不成文	unwritten (rule)
不成文法	unwritten law
不成材	worthless; good-for-nothing
不成樣子	shapeless; deformed; ruined
不成體統	not according with decorum (idiom); scandalous; bad form
不戰不和	neither war nor peace
不才	untalented; I; me (humble)
不打不成器	spare the rod and spoil the child (idiom)
不打不成才	spare the rod and spoil the child (idiom)
不打不成相識	don't fight, won't make friends (idiom); an exchange of blows may lead to friendship
不打不相識	lit. don't fight, won't make friends (idiom); an exchange of blows may lead to friendship
不打緊	unimportant; not serious; it doesn't matter
不打自招	to confess without being pressed; to make a confession without duress
不承認主義	policy of non-recognition
不折不扣	a hundred percent; to the letter; out-and-out
不抵抗主義	policy of nonresistance
不拉嘰	(nasty, stupid etc) as can be
不拉幾	(dialect) extremely
不拘	not stick to; not confine oneself to; whatever
不拘一格	not stick to one pattern
不拘小節	to not bother about trifles (idiom)
不振	lacking in vitality; depressed (market, spirits etc)
不捨	reluctant to part with (sth or sb); unwilling to let go of
不提也罷	best not to mention it; drop it; never mind
不插電	unplugged (of rock musicians performing on acoustic instruments)
不揣冒昧	to venture to; to presume to; to take the liberty of
不摸頭	not acquainted with the situation; not up on things
不撞南牆不回頭	to stubbornly insist on one's own ideas (idiom)
不擇手段	by fair means or foul; by hook or by crook; unscrupulously
不擴散核武器條約	Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
不支	to be unable to endure
不攻自破	(of a rumor etc) to collapse (in the light of facts etc)
不敗之地	(idiom) invincible position
不敢恭維	(idiom) less than impressed; underwhelmed
不敢當	lit. I dare not (accept the honor); fig. I don't deserve your praise
不敢自專	not daring to act for oneself (idiom)
不敢苟同	to beg to differ (idiom)
不敢越雷池一步	dare not go one step beyond the prescribed limit
不敢高攀	lit. not dare to pull oneself up high (humble term)
不敬	disrespect; irreverent; rude
不敵	no match for; cannot beat
不料	unexpectedly; to one's surprise
不斷	unceasing; uninterrupted; continuous
不方便	inconvenience; inconvenient
不日	within the next few days; in a few days time
不明	not clear; unknown; to fail to understand
不明不白	(idiom) obscure; dubious; shady
不明事理	not understanding things (idiom); devoid of sense
不明就裡	not to understand the situation; unaware of the ins and outs
不明確	indefinite; unclear
不明覺厲	although I don't understand it, it seems pretty awesome (Internet slang)
不明飛行物	UFO (unidentified flying object)
不易	not easy to do sth; difficult; unchanging
不易之論	perfectly sound proposition; unalterable truth; irrefutable argument
不是	no; is not; not
不是一家人不進一家門	people who don't belong together, don't get to live together (idiom)
不是冤家不聚頭	destiny will make enemies meet (idiom)
不是吃素的	not to be trifled with; to be reckoned with
不是味兒	not the right flavor; not quite right; a bit off
不是嗎	isn't that so?
不是東西	(derog.) to be a good-for-nothing; worthless nobody; no-good
不是滋味	to be upset; to feel disgusted
不是魚死就是網破	lit. either the fish dies or the net gets torn (idiom)
不時	from time to time; now and then; occasionally
不時之需	a possible period of want or need
不景氣	slack; in a slump
不智	unwise
不暇	to have no time (for sth); to be too busy (to do sth)
不曾	hasn't yet; hasn't ever
不會	improbable; unlikely; will not (act, happen etc)
不月	amenorrhoea; irregular menstruation
不服	not to accept sth; to want to have sth overruled or changed
不服氣	unwilling to concede; defiant; indignant
不服水土	(of a stranger) not accustomed to the climate of a new place
不期	unexpectedly; to one's surprise
不期然而然	happen unexpectedly; turn out contrary to one's expectations
不期而至	to arrive unexpectably; unexpected
不期而遇	meet by chance; have a chance encounter
不朽	to last forever; eternal; enduring
不材	(literary) (of a tree) useless for lumber
不枉	not in vain
不標準	nonstandard; incorrect
不歡而散	to part on bad terms; (of a meeting etc) to break up in discord
不止	incessantly; without end; more than
不止一次	many times; on more than one occasion
不正之風	unhealthy tendency
不正常	abnormal
不正當	dishonest; unfair; improper
不正當競爭	unfair competition; illicit competition
不正當關係	improper relationship; illicit relationship
不正確	incorrect; erroneous
不歸路	road to ruin; course of action from which there is no turning back
不死不休	to fight to one's last gasp
不死心	unwilling to give up; unresigned
不死藥	elixir of life
不比	unlike
不毛	barren
不毛之地	(idiom) barren land; desert
不求人	backscratcher (made from bamboo etc)
不求收獲	not expecting any reward; not asking for favors
不求有功，但求無過	lit. not aiming to achieve the best possible result, but rather trying to avoid making mistakes (idiom)
不求甚解	lit. not requiring a detailed understanding (idiom); only looking for an overview
不治	to die of illness or injury despite receiving medical help
不治之症	incurable disease
不治而癒	to recover spontaneously (from an illness)
不沾鍋	non-stick pan (Tw)
不法	lawless; illegal; unlawful
不法分子	criminal; lawbreaker; outlaw
不注意	thoughtless; not pay attention to
不消	to not need; needless (to say)
不清	unclear
不清楚	unclear; not understood; currently unknown
不減當年	(of one's skills, appearance etc) not to have deteriorated a bit
不渝	(literary) (of loyalty, affection etc) unchanging; unwavering; constant
不測	unexpected; measureless; unexpected circumstance
不湊巧	unluckily
不準確	imprecise
不溫不火	(of sales, TV show ratings etc) lukewarm; moderate; so-so
不溶	insoluble
不滿	dissatisfied; discontented; resentful
不滿意	dissatisfied
不濟	(coll.) no good; of no use
不為人知	not known to anyone; secret; unknown
不為左右袒	to remain neutral in a quarrel (idiom)
不為已甚	refrain from going to extremes in meting out punishment
不為所動	to remain unmoved
不為過	not an exaggeration; not excessive; not wide of the mark
不為酒困	not a slave to the bottle; able to enjoy alcohol in moderation
不無	not without
不無小補	not be without some advantage; be of some help
不然	not so; no; or else
不爭	widely known; incontestable; undeniable
不爭氣	to be disappointing; to fail to live up to expectations
不爽	not well; out of sorts; in a bad mood
不特	not only
不獨	not only
不理	to refuse to acknowledge; to pay no attention to; to take no notice of
不理不睬	to completely ignore (idiom); to pay no attention to
不甘	unreconciled to; not resigned to; unwilling
不甘人後	(idiom) not want to be outdone; not content to lag behind
不甘寂寞	unwilling to remain lonely or idle; unwilling to be left out
不甘後人	(idiom) not want to be outdone; not content to lag behind
不甘心	not reconciled to; not resigned to
不甘於	unwilling to accept
不甘示弱	(idiom) not to be outdone
不甚	(literary) not very
不用	need not
不用客氣	you're welcome; don't mention it; no need to stand on ceremony
不用找	"keep the change" (restaurant expression)
不用說	needless to say; it goes without saying
不用謝	You're welcome; Don't mention it
不由	can't help (doing sth)
不由分說	to allow no explanation
不由得	can't help; cannot but
不由自主	(idiom) can't help but; involuntarily
不畏	unafraid; to defy
不畏強暴	not to submit to force (idiom); to defy threats and violence
不畏強權	not to submit to force (idiom); to defy threats and violence
不當	unsuitable; improper; inappropriate
不當一回事	not regard as a matter (of any importance)
不當事	useless; regard as useless
不當家不知柴米貴	a person who doesn't manage a household would not be aware how expensive it is (idiom)
不當得利	unjust enrichment
不當緊	not important; of no consequence
不疾不徐	neither too fast nor too slow (idiom)
不痛不癢	lit. doesn't hurt, doesn't tickle (idiom); sth is wrong, but not quite sure what
不登大雅之堂	lit. not fit for elegant hall (of artwork); not presentable; coarse
不白之冤	unrighted wrong; unredressed injustice
不盡	not completely; endlessly
不盡根	surd (math.)
不盡然	not always; not entirely; not necessarily so; not entirely correct
不相上下	equally matched; about the same
不相容	incompatible
不相容原理	(Pauli) exclusion principle (physics)
不相干	to be irrelevant; to have nothing to do with
不相符	not in harmony
不省人事	to lose consciousness; unconscious; in a coma
不看僧面看佛面	lit. not for the monk's sake but for the Buddha's sake (idiom)
不眠不休	without stopping to sleep or have a rest (idiom)
不睦	to not get along well; to be at odds
不瞅不睬	(idiom) to ignore completely; to pay no attention to
不知	not to know; unaware; unknowingly
不知丁董	forgetting the fate of Ding and Dong (idiom)
不知不覺	(idiom) unconsciously; unwittingly
不知何故	somehow
不知凡幾	one can't tell how many; numerous similar cases
不知去向	whereabouts unknown; gone missing
不知天高地厚	not to know the immensity of heaven and earth
不知好歹	unable to differentiate good from bad (idiom)
不知就裡	unaware of the inner workings; naive; unwitting
不知所之	whereabouts unknown
不知所云	to not know what sb is driving at; to be unintelligible
不知所以	(idiom) to not know the reason; (idiom) to not know what to do
不知所措	not knowing what to do (idiom); at one's wits' end
不知所終	(idiom) to vanish without a trace; to go missing
不知所謂	nonsense; nonsensical; incomprehensible
不知所蹤	to vanish without a trace; to go missing
不知死活	to act recklessly (idiom)
不知疲倦	untiring; not recognizing tiredness
不知痛癢	numb; unfeeling; indifferent
不知羞恥	to have no sense of shame; brazen
不知者不罪	One who does not know is not guilty
不知輕重	lit. not knowing what's important (idiom); no appreciation of the gravity of things
不知進退	not knowing when to come or leave (idiom); with no sense of propriety
不破不立	without destruction there can be no construction
不碎玻璃	shatterproof or safety glass
不確定性原理	Heisenberg's uncertainty principle (1927)
不確實	untrue
不祥	ominous; inauspicious
不祥之兆	(idiom) bad omen
不禁	can't help (doing sth); can't refrain from
不移	steadfast; inalienable
不稂不莠	useless; worthless; good-for-nothing
不穩	unstable; unsteady
不穩平衡	unstable equilibrium
不穩性	instability
不空成就佛	Amoghasiddhi Buddha
不窮	endless; boundless; inexhaustible
不端	improper; dishonorable
不符	inconsistent; not in agreement with; not agree or tally with
不第	to fail the civil service examination (in imperial China)
不等	unequal; varied
不等價交換	exchange of unequal values
不等式	inequality (math.)
不等號	inequality sign (≠, < , ≤, >, ≥)
不等邊三角形	scalene triangle
不算	to not calculate; to not count; to not be considered (as)
不管	not to be concerned; regardless of; no matter
不管三七二十一	regardless of the consequences
不管不顧	(idiom) to pay scant regard to (sth); (idiom) unheeding; reckless
不管怎樣	in any case; no matter what
不管白貓黑貓，捉住老鼠就是好貓	it doesn't matter whether a cat is white or black; as long as it catches mice it's a good cat (variant of a Sichuanese saying used in a speech by Deng Xiaoping 鄧小平|邓小平[Deng4 Xiao3 ping2] in 1962, usually associated with his economic reforms starting in 1978, in which pragmatism was favored over ideological purity)
不簡單	not simple; rather complicated; remarkable; marvelous
不粘鍋	non-stick pan
不約而同	(idiom) (of two or more people) to take the same action without prior consultation; (usu. used adverbially) all (or both) of them, independently; as if by prior agreement
不結盟	nonalignment
不結盟運動	Non-Aligned Movement (NAM)
不絕	unending; uninterrupted
不絕如縷	hanging by a thread; very precarious; almost extinct
不絕於耳	(of sound) to never stop; to fall incessantly on the ear; to linger on
不絕於途	to come and go in an incessant stream
不給力	lame (unimpressive); a huge letdown; not to try at all
不經一事，不長一智	lit. you can't gain knowledge without practical experience (idiom)
不經之談	absurd statement; cock-and-bull story
不經意	not paying attention; carelessly; by accident
不經意間	without paying attention; without noticing; unconsciously
不緊不慢	(idiom) to take one's time; unhurried; leisurely
不置可否	decline to comment; not express an opinion; be noncommittal
不羈	unruly; uninhibited
不義	injustice
不義之財	ill-gotten wealth or gains
不翼而飛	to disappear without trace; to vanish all of a sudden; to spread fast
不老泉	fountain of youth
不耐受	intolerance (for lactose, gluten or other foods)
不耐煩	impatient; to lose patience
不聞不問	not to hear, not to question (idiom); to show no interest in sth
不聲不響	(idiom) wordless; silent; taciturn; without speaking
不聽命	to disobey
不聽老人言，吃虧在眼前	(idiom) ignore your elders at your peril
不肖	(literary) unlike one's parents; degenerate; unworthy
不育	to be infertile; to have no offspring
不育性	sterility
不育症	sterility; barrenness
不能	cannot; must not; should not
不能不	have to; cannot but
不能自已	unable to control oneself; to be beside oneself
不脛而走	to get round fast; to spread like wildfire
不自在	uneasy; ill at ease
不自然	unnatural; artificial
不自由，毋寧死	give me liberty or give me death
不自量	not take a proper measure of oneself; to overrate one's own abilities
不自量力	(idiom) to overestimate one's capabilities
不至於	unlikely to go so far as to; not as bad as
不致	not in such a way as to; not likely to
不興	out of fashion; outmoded; impermissible
不舉	erectile dysfunction; impotence
不舒服	unwell; feeling ill; to feel uncomfortable
不舒適	uncomfortable
不良	bad; harmful; unhealthy
不良人	(Tang dynasty) official responsible for tracking down and arresting lawbreakers
不良傾向	harmful trend
不苟	not lax; not casual; careful
不若	not as good as; not equal to; inferior
不菲	(of a price, expense, income etc.) considerable; substantial
不萊梅	Bremen (city in Germany)
不落俗套	to conform to no conventional pattern; unconventional; offbeat
不落痕跡	to leave no trace; seamless; professional
不落窠臼	not follow the beaten track; have an original style
不著	no need; need not
不著痕跡	to leave no trace; seamlessly; unobtrusively
不著邊際	not to the point; wide of the mark; neither here nor there
不著陸飛行	nonstop flight
不蒸饅頭爭口氣	not to be crushed (idiom); to be determined to have one's revenge
不虛此行	(idiom) it's been a worthwhile trip
不虞	unexpected; eventuality; contingency
不虞匱乏	to have ample supplies (or money etc)
不行	won't do; be out of the question; be no good
不行了	(coll.) on the point of death; dying
不衰	unfailing; never weakening; enduring
不要	don't!; must not
不要在一棵樹上吊死	don't insist on only taking one road to Rome (idiom)
不要緊	unimportant; not serious; it doesn't matter
不要臉	to have no sense of shame; shameless
不見	not to see; not to meet; to have disappeared
不見不散	lit. Even if we don't see each other, don't give up and leave (idiom)
不見了	to have disappeared; to be missing; nowhere to be found
不見兔子不撒鷹	you don't release the hawk until you've seen the hare (idiom)
不見天日	all black, no daylight (idiom); a world without justice
不見得	not necessarily; not likely
不見棺材不落淚	lit. not to shed a tear until one sees the coffin (idiom)
不見經傳	not found in the classics (idiom); unknown; unfounded
不規則	irregular
不規則三角形	scalene triangle (math.)
不規則四邊形	irregular quadrilateral; trapezium
不規範	not standard; abnormal; irregular
不覺	unconsciously
不解	to not understand; to be puzzled by; indissoluble
不解風情	unromantic; insensitive
不觸目	unobtrusive
不言不語	to not say a word (idiom); to keep silent
不言而喻	(idiom) it goes without saying; it is self-evident
不言自明	self-evident; needing no explanation (idiom)
不計	to disregard; to take no account of
不計其數	lit. their number cannot be counted (idiom); fig. countless
不記名投票	secret ballot
不許	not to allow; must not; can't
不該	should not
不詳	not in detail; not quite clear
不語	(literary) not to speak
不誤	used in expressions of the form 照[zhao4] + {verb} + 不誤|不误[bu4 wu4], in which 照[zhao4] means "as before", and the overall meaning is "carry on (doing sth) regardless" or "continue (to do sth) in spite of changed circumstances", e.g. 照買不誤|照买不误[zhao4 mai3 bu4 wu4], to keep on buying (a product) regardless (of price hikes)
不說自明	goes without saying; obvious; self-evident
不調和	discord
不請自來	to turn up without being invited; unsolicited
不論	whatever; no matter what (who, how etc); regardless of
不諱	without concealing anything; to pass away; to die
不諳世故	unworldly; unsophisticated
不諳水性	to not know how to swim; to not be a strong swimmer
不謀而合	to agree without prior consultation; to happen to hold the same view
不謂	cannot be deemed; unexpectedly
不謝	you're welcome; don't mention it; not at all
不識一丁	total illiterate; unable to read the simplest characters
不識大體	to fail to see the larger issue (idiom)
不識好歹	unable to tell good from bad (idiom); undiscriminating
不識字	illiterate
不識廬山真面目	lit. not to know the true face of Lushan Mountain (idiom)
不識抬舉	fail to appreciate sb's kindness; not know how to appreciate favors
不識時務	to show no understanding of the times (idiom); cannot adapt to current circumstances
不識時變	to show no understanding of the times (idiom); cannot adapt to current circumstances
不識泰山	can't recognize Mt Taishan (idiom); fig. not to recognize a famous person
不識高低	can't recognize tall or short (idiom); doesn't know what's what
不變	constant; unvarying; (math.) invariant
不變價格	fixed price; constant price
不變資本	constant capital
不變量	invariant quantity; invariant (math.)
不讓鬚眉	(idiom) to compare favorably with men in terms of ability, bravery etc
不象話	unreasonable; shocking; outrageous
不豫	(literary) unhappy; displeased
不負	to live up to
不負眾望	to live up to expectations (idiom)
不貲	immeasurable; incalculable
不貳過	(literary) to not repeat the same mistake
不費事	not troublesome
不費吹灰之力	as easy as blowing off dust; effortless; with ease
不賴	(coll.) not bad; good; fine
不贊一詞	to keep silent; to make no comment
不贊成	disapproval; to disapprove
不起眼	unremarkable; nothing out of the ordinary
不越雷池	not overstepping the prescribed limits; to remain within bounds
不足	insufficient; lacking; deficiency
不足掛齒	not worth mentioning (idiom)
不足月	premature (birth, child)
不足為外人道	(idiom) no need to tell others; let's keep this between ourselves
不足為奇	not at all surprising (idiom)
不足為怪	not at all surprising (idiom)
不足為慮	to give no cause for anxiety; nothing to worry about
不足為訓	not to be taken as an example; not an example to be followed
不足為道	to be not worth mentioning
不足道	inconsiderable; of no consequence; not worth mentioning
不足齒數	not worth mentioning; not worth considering
不軌	errant
不輕饒	not to forgive easily; not to let off
不輟	incessant; relentless
不辨菽麥	lit. cannot tell beans from wheat (idiom); fig. ignorant of practical matters
不辭勞苦	to spare no effort
不辭而別	to leave without saying good-bye
不辭辛苦	to make nothing of hardships
不近人情	(idiom) not amenable to reason; unreasonable
不迭	cannot cope; find it too much; incessantly
不送	don't bother to see me out
不送氣	unaspirated
不透明	opaque
不透氣	airtight
不透水	waterproof; watertight; impermeable
不通	to be obstructed; to be blocked up; to be impassable
不逞之徒	desperado
不速	uninvited (guest); unexpected (appearance); unwanted presence
不速之客	(idiom) uninvited or unexpected guest
不速而至	to arrive without invitation; unexpected guest; unwanted presence
不連續	discontinuous; discrete
不連續面	surface of discontinuity
不逮捕特權	the right of immunity from arrest afforded by the Taiwan ROC Constitution, for the duration of meetings, unless caught actually committing a crime, to members of the National Assembly, the Legislative Yuan, or a supervisory committee
不遂	to fail; to fail to materialize; not to get one's way
不過	only; merely; no more than
不過如此	(idiom) nothing more than this; that's all; no big deal; not very impressive
不過意	to be sorry; to feel apologetic
不過爾爾	not more than so-so (idiom); mediocre; nothing out of the ordinary
不遑	to have no time to (do sth)
不遑多讓	lit. to have no time for civilities (idiom); fig. not to be outdone
不道德	immoral
不違農時	not miss the farming season; do farm work in the right season
不遜	rude; impertinent
不遠千里	make light of traveling a thousand li
不適	unwell; indisposed; out of sorts
不適當	inadequate; unfit
不遺餘力	to spare no pains or effort (idiom); to do one's utmost
不避斧鉞	not trying to avoid the battle-ax (idiom)
不避艱險	shrink or flinch from no difficulty or danger
不醉不歸	lit. to not go home until drunk (idiom)
不銹鋼	stainless steel
不錯	correct; right; not bad
不鏽鋼	stainless steel
不鏽鐵	rust-resistant iron (an informal term for certain nickel-free stainless steels, usually of lower quality and less corrosion-resistant than true stainless steel such as 304 or 316)
不長進	not improving; backward; below par
不開竅	unable to understand; can't get the point
不關痛癢	unimportant; of no consequence
不隨意	unconscious; involuntary
不隨意肌	involuntary muscle
不雅	graceless; vulgar; indecent
不雅觀	offensive to the eye; unbecoming; unsightly
不離不棄	to stand by (sb) (idiom); steadfast loyalty
不離兒	not bad; pretty good; pretty close
不露聲色	not show one's feeling or intentions
不靈	not work; be ineffective
不韙	fault; error
不順	unfavorable; adverse
不題	we will not elaborate on that (used as pluralis auctoris)
不願	unwilling
不顧	in spite of; regardless of
不顧一切	(idiom) to disregard all negative considerations; to cast aside all concerns
不顧前後	regardless of what's before or after (idiom); rushing blindly into sth
不顧大局	to give no consideration to the bigger picture (usually implying selfishness)
不顯山不露水	lit. to not show the mountain and to not reveal the water (idiom); fig. to hide the key facts
不食人間煙火	otherworldly; detached from the mundane concerns of ordinary life
不飽和	unsaturated
不飽和脂肪酸	unsaturated fatty acid
不首先使用	no first use (policy for nuclear weapons); NFU
不香嗎	(slang) would be better (abbr. for 這錢買排骨它不香嗎|这钱买排骨它不香吗[zhe4 qian2 mai3 pai2 gu3 ta1 bu4 xiang1 ma5] for that money, a pork cutlet would be more appetizing, would it not?)
不體面	to not appear to be decent or respectful; shameful
不齒	to despise; to hold in contempt
丏	hidden from view; barrier to ward off arrows
丐	to beg for alms; beggar
丐幫	beggars' union; a group of beggars
丐版	(slang) basic version (of a product)
丑	surname Chou
丑時	1-3 am (in the system of two-hour subdivisions used in former times)
丑牛	Year 2, year of the Bull or Ox (e.g. 2009)
丑角	clown role in opera; clown; buffoon
丑鴨	(bird species of China) harlequin duck (Histrionicus histrionicus)
且	and; moreover; yet
且不說	not to mention; leaving aside
且休	rest for now; stop (usually imperative form)
且慢	to wait a moment; do not go too soon
且末縣	Qiemo, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
且末遺址	ruins of Cherchen, Qarqan or Chiemo, archaeological site in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州, Xinjiang
且聽下回分解	to listen to the next chapter for an explanation
且說	thus
丕	grand
丕變	radical change
世	life; age; generation
世上	on earth
世世	from age to age
世世代代	for many generations
世事	affairs of life; things of the world
世交	(long time) friend of the family
世人	people (in general); people around the world; everyone
世仇	feud
世代	for many generations; generation; era
世代交替	(biology) alternation of generations
世代相傳	passed on from generation to generation (idiom); to hand down
世伯	uncle (affectionate name for a friend older than one's father)
世俗	profane; secular; worldly
世務	worldly affairs
世博	abbr. for 世界博覽會|世界博览会[Shi4 jie4 Bo2 lan3 hui4], World Expo
世博會	World Expo (abbr. for 世界博覽會|世界博览会[Shi4 jie4 Bo2 lan3 hui4])
世子	crown prince; heir of a noble house
世宗	Sejong the Great or Sejong Daewang (1397-1450), reigned 1418-1450 as fourth king of Joseon or Chosun dynasty, in whose reign the hangeul alphabet was invented
世宗大王	Sejong the Great or Sejong Daewang (1397-1450), reigned 1418-1450 as fourth king of Joseon or Chosun dynasty, in whose reign the hangeul alphabet was invented
世家	family influential for generations; aristocratic family
世尊	World Honored One; Revered One of the World (Buddha)
世局	the world situation; the state of the world
世情	worldly affairs; the ways of the world
世態	the ways of the world; social behavior
世態炎涼	the hypocrisy of the world (idiom)
世故	sophisticated; worldly-wise
世母	wife of father's elder brother (old)
世濤	stout (beer) (loanword)
世爵	Spyker
世界	world
世界人權宣言	Universal Declaration of Human Rights
世界博覽會	World Expo; abbr. to 世博[Shi4 bo2]
世界各地	all over the world; everywhere; in all parts of the world
世界和平	world peace
世界報	the name of various newspapers, notably Le Monde (France), El Mundo (Spain) and Die Welt (Germany)
世界大戰	world war
世界小姐選美	Miss World Beauty Pageant
世界屋脊	the roof of the world (usually refers to Tibet or Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau 青藏高原[Qing1 Zang4 gao1 yuan2])
世界強國	world power
世界文化遺產	(UNESCO) World Cultural Heritage
世界旅遊組織	World Tourism Organization (UNWTO)
世界日報	World Journal, US newspaper
世界末日	end of the world
世界杯	World Cup
世界氣象組織	World Meteorological Organization (WMO)
世界波	(soccer slang) spectacular, world-class goal; wonder goal (originally Cantonese: 波 is borrowed from English "ball", Jyutping [bo1])
世界海關組織	World Customs Organization
世界知名	world famous
世界知識產權組織	World Intellectual Property Organization
世界第一	ranked number one in the world; the world's first
世界糧食署	World food program (United Nations aid agency)
世界紀錄	world record
世界級	world-class
世界經濟	global economy; world economy
世界經濟論壇	World Economic Forum
世界維吾爾代表大會	World Uighur Congress
世界聞名	world famous
世界自然基金會	World Wildlife Fund WWF
世界衛生大會	World Health Assembly
世界衛生組織	World Health Organization (WHO)
世界觀	worldview; world outlook; Weltanschauung
世界語	Esperanto
世界變暖	global warming
世界貿易	world trade; global trade
世界貿易中心	World Trade Center
世界貿易組織	World Trade Organization (WTO)
世界運動會	World Games
世界野生生物基金會	World Wildlife Fund (WWF)
世界金融中心	World Financial Center (New York City)
世界銀行	World Bank
世相	the ways of the world
世祿	hereditary benefits such as rank and wealth
世祿之家	family with hereditary emoluments
世系	lineage; genealogy; family tree
世紀	century
世紀末	end of the century
世紀末年	final years of the century
世維會	World Uighur Congress (abbr. for 世界維吾爾代表大會|世界维吾尔代表大会[Shi4 jie4 Wei2 wu2 er3 Dai4 biao3 Da4 hui4])
世職	hereditary office
世胄	hereditary house; noble or official family
世行	World Bank (abbr. for 世界銀行|世界银行[Shi4 jie4 Yin2 hang2])
世衛	World Health Organization (WHO) (abbr. for 世界衛生組織|世界卫生组织[Shi4 jie4 Wei4 sheng1 Zu3 zhi1])
世衛組織	World Health Organization (WHO) (abbr. for 世界衛生組織|世界卫生组织[Shi4 jie4 Wei4 sheng1 Zu3 zhi1])
世襲	succession; inheritance; hereditary
世襲之爭	succession struggle; dispute over inheritance
世襲君主國	hereditary monarchy
世襲罔替	(of a position or title) to be passed down unaltered through generations within a family
世說新語	A New Account of the Tales of the World, collection of anecdotes, conversations, remarks etc of historic personalities, compiled and edited by Liu Yiqing 劉義慶|刘义庆[Liu2 Yi4 qing4]
世貿	World Trade Organization (WTO); abbr. for 世界貿易組織|世界贸易组织
世貿中心大樓	World Trade Center (the twin towers destroyed by the 9-11 terrorists)
世貿大廈	World Trade Center
世貿組織	WTO (World Trade Organization)
世足	World Cup (soccer) (Tw)
世運	World Games (abbr. for 世界運動會|世界运动会[Shi4 jie4 Yun4 dong4 hui4])
世道	the ways of the world; the morals of the time
世銀	World Bank (abbr. for 世界銀行|世界银行[Shi4 jie4 Yin2 hang2])
世錦賽	world championship
世間	world; earth
世面	the wider world; diverse aspects of society
世風	public morals
世風日下	public morals are degenerating with each passing day (idiom)
丘	mound; hillock; grave
丘八	soldier (from the two components of the 兵 character) (derog.)
丘北縣	Qiubei, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
丘壑	hills and valleys; remote, secluded area
丘成桐	Shing-Tung Yau (1949-), Chinese-American mathematician, Fields medalist in 1982
丘比特	Cupid, son of Venus and Mars, Roman god of love and beauty
丘爾金	Churkin (name)
丘疹	pimple
丘縣	Qiu county in Hebei
丘腦	thalamus
丘腦損傷	thalamic lesions
丘逢甲	Qiu Fengjia or Ch'iu Feng-chia (1864-1912), Taiwanese Hakkanese poet
丘陵	hills
丘鷸	(bird species of China) Eurasian woodcock (Scolopax rusticola)
丙	third of the ten Heavenly Stems 十天干[shi2 tian1 gan1]; third in order
丙三醇	glycerine; same as 甘油
丙二醇	propylene glycol; propane-1,2-diol C3H6(OH)2
丙午	forty-third year C7 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1966 or 2026
丙型	type C; type III; gamma-
丙型肝炎	hepatitis C
丙基	propyl group (chemistry)
丙子	thirteenth year C1 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1996 or 2056
丙子戰爭	second Manchu invasion of Korea (1636)
丙子胡亂	second Manchu invasion of Korea (1636)
丙寅	third year C3 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1986 or 2046
丙戌	twenty-third year C11 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2006 or 2066
丙氨酸	alanine (Ala), an amino acid
丙烯	propylene C3H6
丙烯腈	acrylo-nitrile
丙烯酸	acrylic acid C3H4O2
丙烯酸酯	acrylic ester
丙烯醛	acrolein CH2CHCHO
丙烷	propane
丙環唑	propiconazole (antifungal agent)
丙申	thirty-third year C9 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1956 or 2016
丙種射線	gamma ray
丙等	third rank; third category; third grade
丙糖	triose (CH2O)3, monosaccharide with three carbon atoms, such as glyceraldehyde 甘油醛[gan1 you2 quan2]
丙綸	polypropylene fiber
丙辰	fifty-third year C5 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1976 or 2036
丙酮	acetone CH3COCH
丙酮酸	pyruvic acid CH3COCOOH
丙酮酸脫氫酶	pyruvate dehydrogenase
丙酸氟替卡松	fluticasone propionate
丙醇	propanol; propyl alcohol C3H7OH
丙醚	n-propyl ether
丙醛	propionaldehyde; propanal CH3CH2CHO
丞	deputy
丞相	the most senior minister of many kingdoms or dynasties (with varying roles)
丟	to lose; to put aside; to throw
丟三落四	forgetful; empty-headed
丟下	to abandon
丟丑	to lose face
丟人	to lose face
丟人現眼	to make an exhibition of oneself; to be a disgrace
丟份子	(coll.) to lose face; to be disgraced
丟到家	to lose (face) utterly
丟包	(computing) packet loss; to lose a packet
丟命	to die
丟失	to lose; to misplace
丟官	(of an official) to lose one's job
丟手	to wash one's hands of sth; to have nothing further to do with sth
丟掉	to lose; to throw away; to discard
丟棄	to discard; to abandon
丟烏紗帽	lit. to lose one's black hat; to be sacked from an official post
丟番圖方程	(math.) Diophantine equation
丟盔棄甲	(idiom) to throw away one's helmet and armor while fleeing from defeat
丟眉丟眼	to wink at sb
丟眉弄色	to wink at sb
丟臉	to lose face; humiliation
丟輪扯砲	(idiom) flustered; confused
丟開	to cast or put aside; to forget for a while
丟面子	to lose face
丟飯碗	to lose one's job
丟魂	to be distracted
並	and; furthermore; also
並不	not at all; by no means
並不在乎	really does not care
並且	and; besides; moreover; furthermore; in addition
並入	to merge into; to incorporate in
並列	to stand side by side; to be juxtaposed
並口	parallel port (computing)
並坐	to sit together
並存	to exist at the same time; to coexist
並排	side by side; abreast
並未	(used to stress that sth did not turn out as one might have expected) did not actually ...; has not actually ...
並條	drawing (textile industry)
並激	parallel excitation; shunt excitation
並發	to happen simultaneously
並發計算	concurrent computing
並稱	joint name; combined name
並立	to exist side by side; to exist simultaneously
並系群	paraphyletic group
並聯	parallel connection
並肩	alongside; shoulder to shoulder; side by side
並肩作戰	(idiom) to fight side by side; (by extension) to join forces
並臻	to arrive simultaneously
並舉	to develop simultaneously; to undertake concurrently
並蒂蓮	lit. twin lotus flowers on one stalk; fig. a devoted married couple
並處	to impose an additional penalty
並行	to proceed in parallel
並行不悖	to run in parallel without hindrance; not mutually exclusive
並行口	parallel port (computing)
並行程序	parallel program
並行計算	parallel computing; (Tw) concurrent computing
並進	to advance together
並重	to give equal emphasis to; to attach equal importance to
並非	really isn't
並駕齊驅	(idiom) to run neck and neck; to keep pace with; to keep abreast of; on par with one another
丨	vertical stroke (in Chinese characters), referred to as 豎筆|竖笔[shu4 bi3]
丫	fork; branch; bifurcation
丫巴兒	fork (of a tree, road, argument etc); bifurcation; fork junction
丫挺	(Beijing dialect) bastard; damned
丫杈	fork (of a tree); tool made of forked wood
丫環	servant girl; maid
丫角	traditional hairstyle for children, with two pointy braids, giving it a horn-like appearance
丫頭	girl; servant girl
丫頭片子	(coll.) silly girl; little girl
丫髻	bun (of hair); topknot
丫鬟	servant girl; maid
中	within; among; in; middle; center; while (doing sth); during
中世紀	medieval; Middle Ages
中中	middling; average; impartial
中二病	(neologism) strange behavior characteristic of a teenager going through puberty (loanword from Japanese "chūnibyō")
中亞	Central Asia
中亞夜鷹	(bird species of China) Vaurie's nightjar (Caprimulgus centralasicus)
中亞細亞	Central Asia
中亞草原	Central Asian grasslands
中亞鴿	(bird species of China) yellow-eyed pigeon (Columba eversmanni)
中人	go-between; mediator; intermediary
中介	to act as intermediary; to link; intermediate
中介所	agency
中介資料	metadata
中企業	medium sized enterprise
中伏	the second of the three annual periods of hot weather (三伏[san1 fu2]), which begins in late July and lasts either 10 or 20 days, depending on the Chinese calendar in that year
中位數	(statistics) median
中低端	mid-to-low-range
中俄	China-Russia
中俄伊犁條約	Treaty of Saint Petersburg of 1881, whereby Russia handed back Yili province to Qing China in exchange for compensation payment and unequal treaty rights
中俄北京條約	the Treaty of Beijing of 1860 between Qing China and Tsarist Russia
中俄尼布楚條約	Treaty of Nerchinsk (1698) between Qing China and Russia
中俄改訂條約	Treaty of Saint Petersburg of 1881, whereby Russia handed back Yili province to Qing China in exchange for compensation payment and unequal treaty rights
中俄邊界協議	Sino-Russian Border Agreement of 1991
中俄關係	Sino-Russian relations
中保	middleman and guarantor
中信銀行	China CITIC Bank
中值定理	mean value theorem (in calculus)
中傷	to slander; to defame; to get hit (by a bullet); to be wounded
中元	Ghost Festival on 15th day of 7th lunar month when offerings are made to the deceased
中元普渡	Ghosts' festival on 15th day of 7th moon
中元節	Ghost Festival on 15th day of 7th lunar month when offerings are made to the deceased
中共	abbr. for 中國共產黨|中国共产党[Zhong1 guo2 Gong4 chan3 dang3], Chinese Communist Party
中共中央	Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, abbr. for 中國共產黨中央委員會|中国共产党中央委员会[Zhong1 guo2 Gong4 chan3 dang3 Zhong1 yang1 Wei3 yuan2 hui4]
中共中央宣傳部	Propaganda Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China
中共中央組織部	Organization Department of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, which oversees appointments of Party members to official positions throughout China
中共中央辦公廳	General Office of the Central Committee of the CCP, which handles administrative, logistical and technical affairs for the Central Committee
中分	to part one's hair in the middle
中前衛	center forward (soccer position)
中北大學	North University of China (Shanxi)
中北部	north central area
中區	central district (of a city); central zone
中午	noon; midday
中南	South Central China (Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Guangdong, Guangxi, Hainan)
中南半島	Indochina
中南海	Zhongnanhai, palace adjacent to the Forbidden City, now the central headquarters of the Communist Party and the State Council
中南部	south central region
中印	China-India
中印半島	Indochina
中卷	adult squid, typically more than 15 cm long with a slender body and fins in the shape of a big rhombus (Tw)
中原	Central Plain, the middle and lower regions of the Yellow river, including Henan, western Shandong, southern Shanxi and Hebei
中原區	Zhongyuan, a district of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
中原大學	Chung Yuan Christian University, in Taiwan
中古	Sino-Cuban; China-Cuba
中古漢語	Middle Chinese (linguistics)
中向性格	ambiversion; ambiverted
中和	Zhonghe or Chungho city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
中和劑	neutralizing agent; neutralizer
中和市	Zhonghe or Chungho city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
中和抗體	(immunology) neutralizing antibody
中圈套	to fall in a trap
中國	China
中國中央電視台	China Central Television (CCTV), PRC state TV network
中國中心主義	Sinocentrism
中國交通建設	China Communications Construction Company
中國交通運輸協會	China Communications and Transportation Association (CCTA)
中國人	Chinese person
中國人大	China National People's Congress
中國人權民運信息中心	Information Center for Human Rights and Democracy, Hong Kong
中國人權組織	Human Rights in China (New York-based expatriate PRC organization)
中國人民大學	Renmin University of China
中國人民對外友好協會	Chinese People's Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries (CPAFFC)
中國人民志願軍	the Chinese People's Volunteer Army deployed by China to aid North Korea in 1950
中國人民政治協商會議	CPPCC (Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference)
中國人民武裝警察部隊	Chinese People's Armed Police Force (PAP, aka CAPF)
中國人民解放軍	People's Liberation Army (PLA), the unified armed forces of the People's Republic of China
中國人民解放軍海軍	Chinese People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN)
中國人民解放軍空軍	People's Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF)
中國人民銀行	People's Bank of China
中國伊斯蘭教協會	Chinese Patriotic Islamic Association
中國作協	China Writers Association (CWA) (abbr. for 中國作家協會|中国作家协会[Zhong1 guo2 Zuo4 jia1 Xie2 hui4])
中國作家協會	China Writers Association (CWA)
中國保險監督管理委員會	China Insurance Regulatory Commission (CIRC)
中國傳媒大學	Communication University of China (CUC), the highest institute of radio, film and television education in China
中國光大銀行	China Everbright Bank
中國共產主義青年團	Communist Youth League of China; China Youth League
中國共產黨	Communist Party of China
中國共產黨中央委員會	Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, abbr. to 中共中央[Zhong1 Gong4 Zhong1 yang1]
中國共產黨中央委員會宣傳部	Propaganda Department of the Communist Party of China
中國剩餘定理	Chinese remainder theorem (math.)
中國化	to sinicize; to take on Chinese characteristics
中國北方工業公司	China North Industries Corporation (Norinco)
中國同盟會	Tongmenghui, Sun Yat-sen's alliance for democracy, founded 1905, became the Guomindang 國民黨|国民党 in 1912
中國商用飛機	COMAC (Chinese aeronautics company)
中國商飛	COMAC, Chinese aeronautics company (abbr. for 中國商用飛機|中国商用飞机[Zhong1 guo2 Shang1 yong4 Fei1 ji1])
中國國家博物館	National Museum of China
中國國家原子能機構	China Atomic Energy Agency (CAEA)
中國國家航天局	China National Space Administration (CNSA)
中國國民黨革命委員會	Revolutionary Committee of the Kuomintang
中國國防科技信息中心	China Defense Science and Technology Information Center (CDSTIC)
中國國際廣播電台	China Radio International; CRI
中國國際航空公司	Air China Ltd.
中國國際貿易促進委員會	China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT)
中國地球物理學會	Chinese Geophysical Society
中國地質大學	China University of Geosciences
中國地質調查局	China Geological Survey (CGS)
中國地震台網	China Earthquake Networks Center (CENC), the information hub of the China Earthquake Administration 中國地震局|中国地震局[Zhong1 guo2 Di4 zhen4 ju2]
中國地震局	China Earthquake Administration (CEA); State Seismological Bureau
中國城	Chinatown
中國夢	Chinese Dream (i.e. the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation), term associated with Xi Jinping 習近平|习近平[Xi2 Jin4 ping2]
中國大百科全書出版社	Encyclopedia of China Publishing House
中國大蠑螈	Chinese giant salamander (Andrias davidianus davidianus)
中國大陸	mainland China
中國天主教愛國會	Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association
中國好聲音	The Voice of China, PRC reality talent show
中國小說史略	Concise History of the Chinese Novel by Lu Xun 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4]
中國工商銀行	Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC)
中國工程院	Chinese Academy of Engineering
中國左翼作家聯盟	the League of the Left-Wing Writers, an organization of writers formed in China in 1930
中國廣播公司	Broadcasting Corporation of China (BCC)
中國建設銀行	China Construction Bank
中國式	Chinese style; à la chinoise
中國政法大學	China University of Political Science and Law, located in Beijing
中國教育和科研計算機網	China Education and Research Network (CERNET)
中國教育網	abbr. for 中國教育和科研計算機網|中国教育和科研计算机网[Zhong1 guo2 Jiao4 yu4 he2 Ke1 yan2 Ji4 suan4 ji1 Wang3]
中國文學藝術界聯合會	China Federation of Literary and Art Circles (CFLAC); abbr. to 文聯|文联
中國文聯	abbr. for 中國文學藝術界聯合會|中国文学艺术界联合会, China Federation of Literary and Art Circles (CFLAC)
中國新民黨	New Democracy Party of China, a short-lived party founded in 2007 by human rights activist Guo Quan, who was jailed in 2009
中國新聞社	China News Service (CNS), a state-owned news agency in China, focused primarily on providing news to Chinese communities outside mainland China
中國新聞網	website of China News Service 中國新聞社|中国新闻社[Zhong1 guo2 Xin1 wen2 she4] (chinanews.com)
中國日報	China Daily (an English language newspaper)
中國時報	China Times (newspaper published in Taiwan)
中國東方航空	China Eastern Airlines
中國林蛙	Chinese brown frog (Rana chensinensis)
中國核能總公司	China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC)
中國殘疾人聯合會	China Disabled Persons' Federation
中國殘聯	China Disabled Persons' Federation (abbr. for 中國殘疾人聯合會|中国残疾人联合会[Zhong1 guo2 Can2 ji2 ren2 Lian2 he2 hui4])
中國民主促進會	China Association for Promoting Democracy (one of the non-Communist political parties in China)
中國民主同盟	China Democratic League, one of the eight legally recognized non-CCP political parties in China
中國民主建國會	China Democratic National Construction Association
中國民用航空局	Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC)
中國氣象局	China Meteorological Administration (CMA)
中國法學會	China Law Society
中國海	the China Seas (the seas of the Western Pacific Ocean, around China: Bohai Sea, Yellow Sea, East China Sea, South China Sea)
中國海事局	PRC Maritime Safety Agency
中國海洋石油總公司	CNOOC; China National Offshore Oil Corporation
中國消費者協會	China Consumers' Association (CCA)
中國特色社會主義	socialism with Chinese characteristics, phrase introduced by the CCP in 1986 to refer to its ideological model, embracing the economic reforms of the post-Mao era
中國產	made in China; home-grown (talent)
中國畫	Chinese painting
中國白眉朱雀	(bird species of China) Chinese white-browed rosefinch (Carpodacus dubius)
中國石化	China Petroleum and Chemical Corporation, Sinopec
中國石油和化學工業協會	China Petrol and Chemical Industry Association (CPCIA)
中國石油天然氣集團公司	China National Petroleum Corporation
中國社會科學院	Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS)
中國科學院	Chinese Academy of Science
中國移動通信	China Mobile (PRC state telecommunications company)
中國籍	Chinese (i.e. of Chinese nationality)
中國精密機械進出口公司	China Precision Machinery Import-Export Corporation (CPMIEC)
中國紅	vermilion
中國結	traditional Chinese decorative knot
中國經營報	China Business (a Beijing newspaper)
中國美術館	National Art Museum of China
中國聯合航空	China United Airlines
中國聯通	China Unicom
中國致公黨	(PRC) China Zhi Gong Party, one of the eight legally recognized minor political parties following the direction of the CCP
中國航天工業公司	China Aerospace Corporation, forerunner of China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation (CASC) 中國航天科技集團公司|中国航天科技集团公司
中國航海日	Maritime Day (July 11th) commemorating the first voyage of Zheng He 鄭和|郑和[Zheng4 He2] in 1405 AD
中國航空工業公司	Aviation Industries of China (AVIC)
中國航空運輸協會	China Air Transport Association (CATA)
中國船舶工業集團	China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC)
中國船舶貿易公司	China Shipbuilding Trading Corporation (CSTC)
中國船舶重工集團公司	China Ship Scientific Research Center (CSSRC)
中國菜	Chinese cuisine
中國製造	made in China
中國製造2025	Made in China 2025, strategic plan to upgrade Chinese industry especially in high-tech areas, approved by China's State Council in 2015
中國話	(spoken) Chinese language
中國證券報	China Securities Journal
中國證券監督管理委員會	China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC)
中國證監會	China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) (abbr. for 中國證券監督管理委員會|中国证券监督管理委员会[Zhong1 guo2 Zheng4 quan4 Jian1 du1 Guan3 li3 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
中國農業銀行	Agricultural Bank of China
中國通	China watcher; an expert on China; an old China hand
中國進出口銀行	The Export-Import Bank of China (state-owned bank)
中國遊藝機遊樂園協會	China Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions (CAAPA)
中國郵政	China Post (Chinese postal service)
中國鈸	China cymbal (drum kit component)
中國銀聯	China UnionPay (CUP), China's only domestic bank card organization
中國銀行	Bank of China (BoC)
中國銀行業監督管理委員會	China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC)
中國長城工業公司	China Great Wall Industry Corporation (CGWIC)
中國電信	China Telecom (Chinese company providing mobile phone service)
中國電視公司	China Television Company (CTV), Taiwan
中國青年報	China Youth Daily
中國風	Chinese style; chinoiserie
中國餐館症候群	Chinese restaurant syndrome
中國鳥類學會	China Ornithological Society
中土	(literary) the Central Plains of China; (literary) China
中型	medium sized
中堅	core; nucleus; backbone
中場	(historical) middle period of a tripartite provincial exam
中壓管	medium pressure tube; middle pressure hose (diving)
中外	Sino-foreign; Chinese-foreign; home and abroad
中天	(literary) midheaven; highest point in the sky
中央	central; middle; center
中央人民政府駐香港特別行政區聯絡辦公室	Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
中央企業	centrally-managed state-owned enterprise (PRC)
中央全會	plenary session of the Central Committee
中央凹	fovea centralis (depression in the macula retina, most sensitive optic region)
中央分車帶	median strip; central reservation (on a divided road)
中央匯金	central finance; Chinese monetary fund
中央執行委員會	Central Executive Committee
中央委員會	Central Committee
中央宣傳部	Central Propaganda Department (abbr. for 中國共產黨中央委員會宣傳部|中国共产党中央委员会宣传部[Zhong1 guo2 Gong4 chan3 dang3 Zhong1 yang1 Wei3 yuan2 hui4 Xuan1 chuan2 bu4])
中央專制集權	centralized autocratic rule
中央廚房	central kitchen
中央廣播電臺	Radio Taiwan International (RTI)
中央情報局	US Central Intelligence Agency, CIA
中央戲劇學院	Central Academy of Drama
中央政府	central government
中央日報	Central Daily News
中央民族大學	Central University for Nationalities
中央海嶺	mid-ocean ridge (geology)
中央直轄市	municipality, namely: Beijing 北京, Tianjin 天津, Shanghai 上海 and Chongqing 重慶|重庆, the first level administrative subdivision
中央省	Töv Province (Töv Aimag) of Mongolia
中央研究院	Academia Sinica, research institution headquartered in Taipei
中央社	Central News Agency (Taiwan)
中央空調	central air conditioning
中央處理單元	(computing) central processing unit (CPU)
中央處理器	(computing) central processing unit (CPU)
中央處理機	(computing) central processing unit (CPU)
中央財經大學	Central University of Finance and Economics, Beijing
中央軍事委員會	(PRC) Central Military Commission
中央軍委	Central Military Committee (CMC)
中央邦	Madhya Pradesh, central Indian state
中央銀行	central bank
中央集權	centralized state power
中央電視台	China Central Television (CCTV), PRC state TV network
中央音樂學院	Central Conservatory of Music
中央黨校	Central Party School, China's highest institution specifically for training Party cadres, founded in 1933
中女	middle-aged woman; (media term) middle-aged women regarded as a distinct social cohort
中子	neutron
中子俘獲	neutron capture
中子射線攝影	neutron radiography
中子彈	neutron bomb
中子數	neutron number
中子星	neutron star
中子源	neutron source
中學	middle school
中學生	middle-school student; high school student
中宣部	Publicity Department of the CCP (abbr. for 中國共產黨中央委員會宣傳部|中国共产党中央委员会宣传部[Zhong1 guo2 Gong4 chan3 dang3 Zhong1 yang1 Wei3 yuan2 hui4 Xuan1 chuan2 bu4])
中密度纖維板	medium-density fiberboard (MDF); abbr. to 中纖板|中纤板[zhong1 xian1 ban3]
中寧縣	Zhongning, a county in Zhongwei City 中衛市|中卫市[Zhong1 wei4 Shi4], Ningxia
中將	lieutenant general; vice admiral; air marshal
中專	vocational secondary school; technical secondary school (abbr. for 中等專業學校|中等专业学校[zhong1 deng3 zhuan1 ye4 xue2 xiao4])
中尉	lieutenant (navy); first lieutenant (army); subaltern
中小企業	small and medium enterprise
中小型企業	small or medium size enterprise (SME)
中小學	middle and elementary school
中尼	China-Nepal
中局	middle game (in go or chess)
中層	middle-ranking
中山	Nakayama (Japanese surname)
中山公園	Zhongshan Park, the name of numerous parks in China, honoring Sun Yat-sen 孫中山|孙中山[Sun1 Zhong1 shan1]
中山區	Zhongshan or Chungshan District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
中山大學	Sun Yat-sen University (Guangzhou); Sun Yat-sen University (Kaohsiung)
中山市	Zhongshan, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
中山成彬	NAKAYAMA Nariaki (1943–), right-wing Japanese politician and prominent denier of Japanese war crimes
中山服	Chinese tunic suit; Mao jacket
中山狼傳	The Wolf of Zhongshan, fable by Ma Zhongxi 馬中錫|马中锡[Ma3 Zhong1 xi1]
中山裝	Chinese tunic suit, a jacket style introduced by Sun Yat-sen 孫中山|孙中山[Sun1 Zhong1 shan1] and often worn by Mao Zedong
中山陵	Dr Sun Yat-sen's mausoleum in Nanjing
中島	Nakajima or Nakashima (Japanese surname and place name)
中嶽	Mt Song 嵩山 in Henan, one of the Five Sacred Mountains 五嶽|五岳[Wu3 yue4]
中川	Nakagawa (Japanese surname and place name)
中巴	China-Pakistan (relations); China-Bahamas
中巴士	minibus
中師	secondary normal school (abbr. for 中等師範學校|中等师范学校[zhong1 deng3 shi1 fan4 xue2 xiao4])
中常	ordinary; average; medium
中幫	mid-top (shoes)
中年	middle age
中庭	courtyard
中庸	golden mean (Confucianism); (literary) (of person) mediocre; ordinary
中庸之道	doctrine of the mean; moderation in all things
中廳	lobby; foyer
中式	to pass the imperial examinations
中式英語	Chinglish
中彈	to get hit by a bullet; to get shot
中彩	to win a prize at a lottery
中徑	diameter
中復電訊	Zoomflight Telecom (Chinese company)
中微子	(particle physics) neutrino
中心	center; heart; core
中心區	central district
中心對稱	(geometry) point symmetry
中心矩	(statistics) central moment
中心粒	(cell biology) centriole
中心語	qualified word
中心點	center; central point; focus
中性	neutral
中性筆	rollerball pen
中性粒細胞	neutrophil (the most common type of white blood cell)
中情局	US Central Intelligence Agency, CIA (abbr. for 中央情報局|中央情报局[Zhong1 yang1 Qing2 bao4 ju2])
中意	to take one's fancy; to be to one's liking
中成藥	prepared prescription (Chinese medicine)
中招	(martial arts) to get hit; to get taken down
中括號	square brackets [ ]
中指	middle finger
中控面板	center dash console; central dashboard
中提琴	viola
中文	Chinese language
中文標準交換碼	CSIC, Chinese standard interchange code used from 1992
中新世	Miocene (geological epoch from 24m-5m years ago)
中新社	China News Service (CNS) (abbr. for 中國新聞社|中国新闻社[Zhong1 guo2 Xin1 wen2 she4])
中新網	ChinaNews (China News Service)
中斷	to cut short; to break off; to discontinue
中方	the Chinese side (in an international venture)
中方縣	Zhongfang, a county in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
中旅社	China Travel Service (CTS), state-owned travel company
中日	China-Japan
中日關係	Sino-Japanese relations
中日韓	China, Japan and Korea
中日韓統一表意文字	CJK Unified Ideographs
中日韓越	China, Japan, Korea, and Vietnam
中旬	middle third of a month
中時	China Times (newspaper published in Taiwan) (abbr. for 中國時報|中国时报[Zhong1 guo2 Shi2 bao4])
中暑	to suffer heat exhaustion; sunstroke; heatstroke
中朝	Sino-Korean; China and North Korea
中期	middle (of a period of time); medium-term (plan, forecast etc)
中期選舉	midterm election
中村	Nakamura (Japanese surname)
中杓鷸	(bird species of China) Eurasian whimbrel; common whimbrel (Numenius phaeopus)
中東	Middle East
中東呼吸綜合徵	Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS)
中板	moderato
中校	middle ranking officer in Chinese army; lieutenant colonel; commander
中概股	China concepts stock (stock in a Chinese company that trades on an exchange outside China or in Hong Kong) (abbr. for 中國概念股|中国概念股[Zhong1 guo2 gai4 nian4 gu3])
中槍	to be hit by a gun; shot
中樂透	to win in a lotto game
中標	to win a tender; to win a bid
中樞	center; hub; the central administration
中樞神經	(anatomy) central nervous system
中樞神經系統	central nervous system, CNS
中檔	mid-range (in quality and price)
中歐	Central Europe
中止	to cease; to suspend; to break off
中正	adopted name of Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石[Jiang3 Jie4 shi2]
中正區	Zhongzheng District of Taipei 台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4] or Keelung 基隆市[Ji1 long2 Shi4]
中正紀念堂	Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Hall, Taipei
中段	middle section; middle period; middle area; mid-
中毒	to be poisoned
中毒性	poisonous; toxic
中毒者	poisoned person (food poisoning, drug overdose or toxic exposure)
中氣層	(meteorology) mesosphere
中氣層頂	(meteorology) mesopause
中水	reclaimed water; recycled water
中江縣	Zhongjiang, a county in Deyang City 德陽市|德阳市[De2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
中沙群島	Macclesfield Bank, series of reefs in the South China Sea southeast of Hainan Island
中油	CPC Corporation, a state-owned petroleum company in Taiwan (abbr. for 台灣中油|台湾中油[Tai2 wan1 Zhong1 you2])
中法	China-France; Sino-French
中法戰爭	Sino-French War (1883-1885) (concerning French seizure of Vietnam)
中法新約	treaty of Tianjin of 1885 ceding Vietnam to France
中波	medium wave (radio frequency range)
中洋脊	mid-ocean ridge (geology)
中流	midstream
中流砥柱	mainstay; cornerstone; tower of strength
中海油	China National Offshore Oil Corporation
中港	PRC and Hong Kong
中港臺	China, Hong Kong and Taiwan (abbr.)
中游	the middle stretches of a river; middle level; middle echelon
中源地震	medium depth earthquake (with epicenter 70-300 km deep)
中澳	China-Australia (relations)
中灶	mess hall for mid-level cadres; cf. 大灶[da4 zao4]
中焙	medium roast (coffee); Taiwan pr. [zhong1pei4]
中焦	(TCM) middle burner, the part of the body within the abdominal cavity (between the diaphragm and the navel, including the spleen and stomach)
中爪哇	Central Java, province of Indonesia
中牟縣	Zhongmu, a county in Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
中獎	to win a prize (in a lottery etc)
中班	middle shift; swing shift; early night shift
中環	Central, Hong Kong Island
中生代	Mesozoic (geological era 250–65 million years ago, covering the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous)
中產	middle class; bourgeois
中產階級	middle class
中用	useful; helpful; Taiwan pr. [zhong4 yong4]
中白鷺	(bird species of China) medium egret (Ardea intermedia)
中的	to hit the target; (fig.) to hit the nail on the head
中盤	middle game (in go or chess); (share trading) mid-session
中盤商	distributor; wholesaler; middleman
中盤股	(share trading) mid-cap
中看	pleasant to the eye; Taiwan pr. [zhong4 kan4]
中看不中用	impressive-looking but useless
中短債	short- or medium-term loan
中石化	China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (Sinopec Corp.)
中石器時代	Mesolithic Era
中研院	Academia Sinica (abbr. for 中央研究院[Zhong1 yang1 Yan2 jiu1 yuan4])
中秋	the Mid-autumn festival, the traditional moon-viewing festival on the 15th of the 8th lunar month
中秋節	the Mid-Autumn Festival on 15th of 8th lunar month
中科院	abbr. for 中國社會科學院|中国社会科学院[Zhong1 guo2 She4 hui4 Ke1 xue2 yuan4], Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS)
中程	medium-range
中空	hollow; empty interior
中空玻璃	double glazing
中立	neutral; neutrality
中立國	neutral country
中立性	impartiality; neutrality
中立派	centrist; the centrist faction
中站區	Zhongzhan, a district of Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
中端	mid-range; mid-tier; middle segment; the middle part
中等	medium
中等專業學校	vocational secondary school; technical secondary school
中等專業教育	technical middle school education
中等師範學校	secondary normal school (secondary school that trains kindergarten and elementary school teachers)
中等技術學校	technical middle school; polytechnic
中等教育	secondary education
中筋麵粉	all-purpose flour; flour for making dumplings and noodles
中箭落馬	lit. to be struck by an arrow and fall from one's horse
中篇小說	novella
中簽	to win a ballot; to draw a lucky number
中紀委	Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI), organization within the CCP which investigates corruption and other wrongdoing among Party cadres
中級	middle level (in a hierarchy)
中組部	(CCP) Organization Department (abbr. for 中共中央組織部|中共中央组织部[Zhong1 gong4 Zhong1 yang1 Zu3 zhi1 bu4])
中綴	infix (grammar), particle attached within a word or expression
中線	half-way line; median line
中縫	vertical space in a newspaper between two attached pages
中繼	to relay; to repeat
中繼器	repeater
中繼站	relay station
中繼資料	metadata
中美	Central America
中美文化研究中心	the Hopkins-Nanjing Center, located in Nanjing, est. 1986 (formally, the Johns Hopkins University – Nanjing University Center for Chinese and American Studies)
中美洲	Central America
中老年	middle and old age
中老年人	middle-aged and elderly people
中考	entrance exam for senior middle school
中耳	middle ear
中耳炎	inflammation of middle ear; otitis media
中聯航	China United Airlines, abbr. for 中國聯合航空|中国联合航空[Zhong1 guo2 Lian2 he2 Hang2 kong1]
中聯辦	Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (abbr. for 中央人民政府駐香港特別行政區聯絡辦公室|中央人民政府驻香港特别行政区联络办公室[Zhong1 yang1 Ren2 min2 Zheng4 fu3 Zhu4 Xiang1 gang3 Te4 bie2 Xing2 zheng4 qu1 Lian2 luo4 Ban4 gong1 shi4]) or the equivalent office in Macao
中聲	the medial (vowel or diphthong) of a Korean syllable
中聽	pleasant to hear (i.e. agreeable news); to one's liking
中肯	pertinent; apropos
中胚層	mesoderm (cell lineage in embryology)
中脊	mid-ocean ridge (geology)
中臺	China and Taiwan
中興	resurgence; recovery; restoration
中舉	to pass the provincial level imperial examination
中航技進出口有限責任公司	China National Aero-Technology Import & Export Corporation (CATIC)
中英	Sino-British; Chinese-English
中草藥	Chinese herbal medicine
中華	Zhonghua, historical and cultural term for China, often used to denote Chinese civilization and identity (as in 中華文化|中华文化[Zhong1 hua2 wen2 hua4] "Chinese culture")
中華人民共和國	People's Republic of China
中華仙鶲	(bird species of China) Chinese blue flycatcher (Cyornis glaucicomans)
中華全國婦女聯合會	All-China Women's Federation (PRC, established 1949)
中華全國總工會	All-China Federation of Trade Unions (ACFTU)
中華全國體育總會	All-China Sports Federation
中華字海	Zhonghua Zihai, the most comprehensive Chinese character dictionary with 85,568 entries, compiled in 1994
中華攀雀	(bird species of China) Chinese penduline tit (Remiz consobrinus)
中華民國	Republic of China
中華民族	the Chinese nation
中華田園犬	Chinese rural dog; indigenous dog; mongrel
中華短翅鶯	(bird species of China) Chinese bush warbler (Locustella tacsanowskia)
中華秋沙鴨	(bird species of China) scaly-sided merganser (Mergus squamatus)
中華臺北	Chinese Taipei, name for Taiwan to which the PRC and Taiwan agreed for the purpose of participation in international events
中華航空公司	China Airlines (Taiwan); abbr. to 華航|华航[Hua2 hang2]
中華蘇維埃共和國	Chinese Soviet Republic (1931-1937)
中華電視	Chinese Television System (CTS), Taiwan
中華鷓鴣	(bird species of China) Chinese francolin (Francolinus pintadeanus)
中華龍鳥	Sinosauropteryx, a small dinosaur that lived in what is now northeastern China during the early Cretaceous period
中菲	China-Philippines
中葉	mid- (e.g. mid-century); middle period
中藥	traditional Chinese medicine
中蘇解決懸案大綱協定	the treaty of 1923 normalizing relations between the Soviet Union and the Northern Warlord government of China
中號	medium-sized
中行	abbr. for 中國銀行|中国银行[Zhong1 guo2 Yin2 hang2]
中衛	(sports) center-back
中衛市	Zhongwei, prefecture-level city in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 寧夏回族自治區|宁夏回族自治区[Ning2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
中裝	Chinese dress
中西	China and the West; Chinese-Western
中西區	Central and Western district of Hong Kong
中西合併	Chinese-Western fusion
中西合璧	harmonious combination of Chinese and Western elements (idiom)
中西部	midwest
中西醫	Chinese and Western medicine
中西醫結合	to combine traditional Chinese and Western medicine
中規中矩	conforming with the norms of society
中視	China Television Company (CTV), Taiwan (abbr. for 中國電視公司|中国电视公司[Zhong1 guo2 Dian4 shi4 Gong1 si1])
中計	to fall into a trap; to be taken in
中試	pilot test (in product development etc)
中調	(perfumery) middle note; heart note
中財	Central University of Finance and Economics, Beijing (abbr. for 中央財經大學|中央财经大学[Zhong1 yang1 Cai2 jing1 Da4 xue2])
中資	Chinese capital; Chinese enterprise
中賊鷗	(bird species of China) pomarine jaeger (Stercorarius pomarinus)
中超	Chinese Super League (soccer)
中越戰爭	Sino-Vietnamese War (1979)
中路	midway; mediocre (quality); midfield (soccer)
中軸	axis; (bicycle) bottom bracket
中軸線	central axis (line)
中輟	to stop halfway; to give up halfway; interruption
中轉	to change (train or plane); transfer; correspondence
中轉櫃檯	transfer desk; correspondence desk
中轉站	transit hub; transport hub; interchange
中辣	hot; medium level of spiciness
中辦	General Office of the Central Committee of the CCP (abbr. for 中共中央辦公廳|中共中央办公厅[Zhong1 gong4 Zhong1 yang1 Ban4 gong1 ting1])
中農	(historical) middle peasant (PRC rural class category referring to a farmer with moderate land and resources who relies mainly on family labor)
中途	partway through; midway; along the way
中途之家	(Tw) halfway house (for released prisoners, victims of domestic violence etc)
中途島	Midway Islands
中途島戰役	Battle of Midway, June 1942
中途退場	to leave in the middle of the play
中遠	China Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO) (abbr. for 中國遠洋運輸|中国远洋运输[Zhong1 guo2 Yuan3 yang2 Yun4 shu1])
中選	to be chosen; to be selected
中邪	to be possessed; to be bewitched
中郎將	general of the household, a mid-ranking military officer responsible for palace or court duties
中部	middle part; central section; central region
中都	Zhongdu, capital of China during the Jin Dynasty (1115-1234), modern day Beijing
中醫	traditional Chinese medical science
中醫學	traditional Chinese medicine; TCM
中野	Nakano (Japanese surname and place name)
中量級	middleweight (boxing etc)
中銀	Bank of China (abbr. for 中國銀行|中国银行[Zhong1 guo2 Yin2 hang2])
中鋒	(sports) midfielder; (basketball) center; (hockey, soccer) center forward
中長跑	middle distance race
中間	the middle; the inside; in the middle; within; between; among
中間人	intermediary; mediator
中間人攻擊	(computing) man-in-the-middle attack
中間件	middleware
中間名	middle name; second given name
中間商	middleman; broker
中間層	(meteorology) mesosphere
中間派	moderate faction; party of compromise; middle ground
中間神經元	interneuron
中間纖維	intermediate filament
中間路線	middle road (in politics)
中間音	(phonetics) medial
中關村	Zhongguancun neighborhood of Beijing, containing Peking University, famous for electronics shops and bookstores
中阮	zhongruan or alto lute, like pipa 琵琶 but bigger and lower range
中陽縣	Zhongyang, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
中階	mid-level
中隔	septum (anatomy)
中青	China Youth (official newspaper) (abbr. for 中國青年報|中国青年报[Zhong1 guo2 Qing1 nian2 Bao4])
中青年	middle-aged
中非	Central Africa
中非共和國	Central African Republic
中韓	China-South Korea
中風	to suffer a paralyzing stroke
中飯	lunch
中飽	to embezzle; to misappropriate
中飽私囊	to stuff one's pockets; to take bribes
中餐	lunch; Chinese meal; Chinese food
中餐館	Chinese restaurant
中體西用	adopting Western knowledge for its practical uses while keeping Chinese values as the core
中魔	to be possessed; to be bewitched
中點	midpoint; half-way point
丮	to catch
丰	luxuriant; buxom; appearance
丰姿	charm; good looks
丱	two tufts of hair; young; underage
串	to string together; to skewer; to connect wrongly
串串	(coll.) skewers; barbecued food on sticks; (in Sichuan) Sichuan-style hotpot skewers (abbr. for 串串香[chuan4 chuan4 xiang1])
串串狗	(coll.) mixed-breed dog; mutt
串串貓	(coll.) mixed-breed cat; moggy
串串香	Sichuan-style hotpot skewers
串供	to collude to fabricate a story
串口	serial port (computing)
串味	to become tainted with the smell of sth else; to pick up an odor
串崗	to leave one's post while on duty
串戲	to act in a play
串換	to exchange; to change; to swap
串流	(Tw) (of music, video etc) to be streamed; (as a noun or attributive) streaming
串燒	to cook on a skewer; barbecued food on a skewer; shish kebab
串線	to get the lines crossed
串聯	to establish ties; to contact
串處理	string processing (computing)
串號	identification number; IMEI
串行	to miss a line; to confuse two lines
串行口	serial port (computing)
串親訪友	to call on friends and relations (idiom)
串謀	to conspire
串通	to collude; to collaborate; to gang up
串通一氣	to act in collusion (idiom)
串鄉	to go from village to village (like an itinerant artist)
串門	to call on sb; to drop in; to visit sb's home
串音	crosstalk; to overhear
丳	skewer
丵	thick grass; "bush" component in Chinese characters
丶	"dot" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 3), aka 點|点[dian3]
丷	"eight" component in Chinese characters
丸	ball; pellet; pill
丸劑	pill
丸子	pills; balls; meatballs
丸山	Maruyama (Japanese surname and place name)
丹	red; pellet; powder
丹佛	Denver, Colorado
丹參	(botany) red sage (Salvia miltiorrhiza)
丹寧	(loanword) denim; tannin
丹寨縣	Danzhai, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
丹尼	Danny (name)
丹尼斯	Dennis (name)
丹尼爾	Daniel (name)
丹尼索瓦人	Denisovan, an extinct species of human
丹巴縣	Danba, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
丹布朗	Dan Brown (American novelist)
丹彩	vermilion; rhetorical language
丹徒區	Dantu, a district of Zhenjiang City 鎮江市|镇江市[Zhen4 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangsu
丹心	loyal heart; loyalty
丹方	folk remedy
丹東市	Dandong, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
丹桂	orange osmanthus
丹毒	erysipelas (medicine)
丹江口市	Danjiangkou, a county-level city in Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
丹沙	cinnabar (used in TCM)
丹瑞	General Than Shwe (1933–), Myanmar army officer and politician, leader of the military junta 1992–2011
丹田	pubic region; point two inches below the navel where one's qi resides
丹皮	the root bark of the peony tree
丹砂	cinnabar
丹稜縣	Danling, a county in Meishan City 眉山市[Mei2 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
丹藥	Daoist elixir
丹衷	real sincerity
丹陽市	Danyang, a county-level city in Zhenjiang City 鎮江市|镇江市[Zhen4 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangsu
丹霞	Mt Danxia in Shaoguan 韶關|韶关[Shao2 guan1], Guangdong
丹霞地貌	Danxia landform (red conglomerate and sandstone)
丹霞山	Mt Danxia in Shaoguan 韶關|韶关[Shao2 guan1], Guangdong
丹青	painting
丹頂鶴	(bird species of China) red-crowned crane (Grus japonensis)
丹魄	amber
丹鳳	red phoenix
丹鳳眼	red phoenix eyes (eyes whose outer corners incline upwards)
丹鳳縣	Danfeng, a county in Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
丹麥	Denmark
丹麥包	Danish pastry
主	owner; master; host
主人	owner; host; master
主人公	hero (of a novel or film); main protagonist
主人翁	master (of the house); main character in a novel etc; hero or heroine
主任	director; head
主使	to mastermind; to orchestrate; to instigate
主保聖人	patron saint
主修	(education) to major in; major
主僕	master and servant
主公	Your Highness; Your Majesty
主刀	to act as the chief surgeon; chief surgeon
主創	to play a major role in a creative endeavor (e.g. making a movie)
主力	main force; main strength of an army
主力艦	battleship
主力軍	main force (military)
主動	to take the initiative; to do sth of one's own accord; spontaneous
主動免疫	active immunity
主動收入	(finance) active income
主動權	initiative (as in "seize the initiative")
主動脈	aorta; principal artery
主和弦	tonic triad; triad of the home key
主和派	the peace faction; doves
主品牌	umbrella brand (marketing)
主唱	to sing the lead vocals; lead singer
主因	principal cause; main reason
主場	(sports) home ground; home field; (sports) home game
主委	committee chairperson
主婦	housewife; woman of senior authority in a household
主嫌	prime, key or main suspect (law)
主子	Master (term used by servant); Your Majesty; operator (of machine)
主宰	to dominate; to rule; to dictate
主宰者	ruler
主將	commander-in-chief (military); star player (sports)
主導	leading; dominant; prevailing
主導性	leadership
主導權	control; dominant position; decision-making power
主峰	main peak (of a mountain range)
主帥	(military) commander-in-chief; (sports) team manager; coach
主席	chairperson; premier; chairman
主席國	chair country; country holding revolving presidency
主席團	presidium
主席臺	rostrum; platform
主幹	trunk; main; core
主幹網絡	core network
主幹網路	core network; backbone network
主幹線	trunk line (of road, network etc); backbone (cable)
主序帶	(astronomy) main sequence
主序星	(astronomy) main-sequence star
主廚	chef; to be the chef
主廳	main hall
主張	to advocate; to stand for; view
主從	master-slave (computing); client-server (computing)
主心骨	backbone; mainstay; pillar
主意	plan; idea; decision
主戰派	the pro-war faction; hawks
主打	principal; main; flagship (product); title (track)
主打品牌	flagship brand
主打歌	(music) lead single; the main song promoted from an album
主承銷商	lead underwriter
主抓	to be in charge of; to concentrate on
主持	to take charge of; to manage or direct; to preside over
主持人	host; master of ceremonies; (TV or radio) presenter; anchor
主掌	in charge (of a position etc); the person in charge; responsible
主播	(news) anchor; (program) host; (Internet) streamer
主攻	main assault; to focus on; to specialize in
主政	to lead a government
主教	bishop
主教座堂	cathedral
主料	main ingredients (in a cooking recipe)
主旋律	(music) theme; principal melody; (fig.) central theme; main idea
主族	main group
主日	Sabbath; Sunday
主日學	Sunday School
主旨	gist; main idea; general tenor
主旨演講	keynote speech
主材	principal or main material (engineering)
主板	(computing) motherboard; (stock market) main board
主格	nominative case (grammar)
主業	main business
主樓	main building
主機	main engine; (military) lead aircraft; (computing) host computer
主機名	hostname (of a networked computer)
主機板	motherboard
主權	sovereignty
主權國家	sovereign country
主次	the important and the less important; primary and secondary
主治醫師	attending physician
主法向量	principal normal vector (to a space curve)
主流	main stream (of a river); fig. the essential point
主演	to play the leading role; to star; lead actor
主犯	culprit
主球	cue ball (in pool etc)
主理人	(coll.) person in charge, manager (originally, chiefly in Hong Kong, Macau); (esp.) creative director or founder of a boutique brand (newer, mainstream sense)
主環	primary ring
主祭	to perform the sacrificial rites at a funeral
主禱文	Lord's Prayer
主科	required courses in the major subject
主管	in charge; responsible for; person in charge
主管人員	executive
主管機關	the agency in charge of (e.g. a program); the relevant government body
主簿	official registrar (of a county etc) in imperial China
主線	main line (of communication); main thread (of a plotline or concept)
主編	editor in chief
主罰	penalty (kick)
主義	-ism; ideology
主腦	leader; the one in control; main (part, character etc)
主臥	master bedroom; primary bedroom
主航道	main channel
主菜	main course
主裁	(sports) to referee; to umpire; to officiate
主裁判	(sports) referee; umpire
主要	main; principal; major; primary
主見	one's own view; definite opinion
主觀	subjective
主觀主義	subjectivism
主角	leading role; lead; protagonist
主計	chief accounting officer; controller; comptroller
主計室	auditing department; accounting department; comptroller office
主訴	(medicine) to complain of; a patient's brief account of their illness
主詞	subject
主語	subject (in grammar)
主調	main point of an argument; a principal viewpoint
主謀	mastermind; ringleader; lead plotter
主謂	(linguistics) subject and predicate
主謂句	subject-predicate sentence; subject-predicate clause
主謂結構	subject-predicate construction
主謂賓	subject-verb-object SVO or subject-predicate-object sentence pattern (e.g. in Chinese grammar)
主講	to give a lecture; to lecture on
主賓	guest of honor; host and guests
主賓謂	subject-object-verb SOV or subject-object-predicate sentence pattern (e.g. in Japanese or Korean grammar)
主車群	peloton (main group of riders in a bicycle race)
主軸	axis; principal axis (in mechanics, optics, botany etc)
主軸承	main bearing
主辦	to organize; to host (a conference or sports event)
主辦國	host country
主辦方	organizer; host
主辦權	the right to host (an international meeting)
主銷	kingpin (vehicle part)
主隊	host team (at sports event); host side
主音	keynote; principal tone; tonic
主音吉他	lead guitar
主頁	home page
主題	theme; subject
主題公園	theme park
主題曲	theme song
主題樂園	theme park
主題歌	theme song
主題演講	keynote speech
主顧	client; customer
主顯節	(Christianity) Epiphany
主食	staple food
主體	main part; bulk; body
主體思想	Juche Idea (North Korean ideology of political, economic and military independence)
主麻	(Islam) Jumu'ah (refers to Friday or the noon prayer on Friday) (loanword from Arabic)
主麻日	(Islam) Friday, when Muslims go to the mosque before noon to attend congregational prayers
丼	(Tw) bowl of steamed rice with other food on top (loanword from Japanese "donburi")
丿	radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 4), aka 撇[pie3]
乀	stretch
乂	to regulate; to govern; to control
乃	to be; thus; so
乃們	you (plural) (slang alternative for 你們|你们[ni3 men5])
乃堆拉	Nathu La (Himalayan pass on Silk Road between Tibet and Indian Sikkim)
乃堆拉山口	Nathu La (Himalayan pass on the Silk Road between Tibet and the northeastern Indian state of Sikkim)
乃是	equivalent to either 是[shi4] or 就是[jiu4 shi4]
乃東區	Nedong, a district of Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
乃爾	thus; like this
乃至	and even; to go so far as to
久	(of a period of time) long
久久	for a very long time
久之	for a long time
久仰	honorific: I've long looked forward to meeting you.
久仰大名	I have been looking forward to meeting you for a long time (idiom)
久保	Kubo (Japanese surname)
久假不歸	to fail to return a borrowed item
久別	a long period of separation
久別重逢	to meet again after a long period of separation
久已	long ago; a long time since
久慕	lit. I've admired you for a long time (honorific).
久攻不下	to attack for a long time without success
久曠	to leave uncultivated for a long time
久治縣	Jigzhi, a county in Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 果洛藏族自治州[Guo3 luo4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
久留	to stay for a long time
久病	my old illness; chronic condition
久病成良醫	long illness makes the patient into a good doctor (idiom)
久病成醫	(proverb) a long illness makes the patient into a doctor
久等	to wait for a long time
久經	to have long experience of; to go through repeatedly
久經考驗	well tested over a long period of time (idiom); seasoned
久而久之	over time; as time passes; in the fullness of time
久聞大名	your name has been known to me for a long time (polite)
久負盛名	seasoned; honed to perfection over centuries; special reserve
久違	(haven't done sth) for a long time; a long time since we last met
久遠	lasting; enduring; extending over a long period of time
久長	a long time
久闊	a long period of separation
久陪	to accompany over long term
乇	"blade of grass" component in Chinese characters
么	youngest; most junior; tiny
么並矢	idemfactor (math.)
么二	one-two or ace-deuce (smallest throw at dice); a prostitute
么兒	(coll.) youngest son
么女	(coll.) youngest daughter
么雞	(mahjong) bird tile; one bam
么麼小醜	(idiom) insignificant wretch
么點	ace
之	(possessive particle, literary equivalent of 的[de5]); him; her
之一	one of (sth); one out of a multitude
之上	above
之下	under; beneath; less than
之中	inside; among; in the midst of (doing sth)
之乎者也	(lit.) 之[zhi1], 乎[hu1], 者[zhe3] and 也[ye3] (four grammatical particles of Classical Chinese) (idiom)
之內	inside; within
之前	before; prior to; ago
之外	outside; excluding
之字形	Z-shaped; zigzag
之字路	zigzag road; switchback
之後	after; behind; (at the beginning of a sentence) afterwards; since then
之所以	(after a noun N and before a predicate P) the reason why N P
之至	extremely
之間	(after a noun) between; among; amid
之際	during; at the time of
之類	and so on; and such
乍	at first; suddenly; abruptly
乍得	Chad
乍得湖	Lake Chad
乍暖還寒	(idiom) (of early spring weather) alternating between warm and cold
乍浦	Zhapu, a town and port on the north shore of Hangzhou Bay in Zhejiang, historically significant as a trading point and military location
乍現	to appear suddenly
乍看	at first glance
乍青乍白	(of sb's face) turning alternately green and white
乎	(classical particle similar to 於|于[yu2]) in; at; from
乏	short of; tired
乏人照顧	(of a person) left unattended; not cared for
乏力	lacking in strength; weak; feeble; not up to the task
乏味	tedious
乏善可陳	(idiom) to be nothing to write home about
乏燃料	(nuclear energy) spent fuel
乏燃料棒	(nuclear energy) spent fuel rods
乑	to stand side by side
乒	(onom.) ping; bing
乒乓	(onom.) rattle; clatter; (sports) ping-pong
乒乓球	table tennis; ping-pong; table tennis ball
乒乓球拍	ping-pong paddle
乒乓球檯	table-tennis table
乒壇	the table tennis world; table tennis circles
乓	(onom.) bang
乖	(of a child) obedient, well-behaved; clever; shrewd
乖乖	(of a child) well-behaved; obediently
乖乖女	well-behaved girl; good girl
乖乖牌	good little boy (or girl)
乖僻	peculiar; eccentric
乖巧	clever (child); smart; lovable
乖張	recalcitrant; unreasonable; peevish
乖忤	stubborn; contrary; disobedient
乖戾	perverse (behavior); disagreeable (character)
乖离	to part; to separate; to deviate
乖覺	perceptive; alert; clever
乖謬	ridiculous; abnormal
乖迕	stubborn; contrary; disobedient
乖順	obedient (colloquial)
乘	(archaic) four horse military chariot; (archaic) four
乘人不備	to take advantage of sb in an unguarded moment (idiom)
乘人之危	to take advantage of sb's precarious position
乘以	(math.) multiplied with
乘便	at your convenience
乘冪	(math.) to exponentiate; to raise (a number) to a power
乘務	service (on a train, a plane etc)
乘務員	attendant on an airplane, train, boat etc
乘勝	to follow up a victory; to pursue retreating enemy
乘勝追擊	to follow up a victory and press home the attack
乘勢	to seize the opportunity; to strike while the iron is hot
乘坐	to take (a ship, plane etc); to ride (in a train or other vehicle)
乘堅策肥	to live in luxury; lit. to ride a solid carriage pulled by fat horses
乘客	passenger
乘搭	to ride as a passenger (in a car, boat, plane etc)
乘數	multiplier
乘方	(math.) to exponentiate; to raise (a number) to a power
乘機	to take the opportunity; to take a plane
乘法	multiplication
乘法表	multiplication table
乘法逆	multiplicative inverse (math.)
乘涼	to enjoy the cool; to relax in a cool place (esp. in hot weather)
乘火打劫	to take advantage of sb's misfortune; to loot
乘用車	passenger vehicle
乘積	product (result of multiplication)
乘組	crew (on board a spacecraft)
乘興	while in high spirits; feeling upbeat; on an impulse
乘船	to embark; to travel by ship; to ferry
乘虛	to take advantage of weakness
乘虛而入	to enter by exploiting a weak spot (idiom); to take advantage of a lapse
乘號	multiplication sign (math.)
乘警	police on trains; train marshal
乘車	to ride (in a car or carriage); to drive; to motor
乘除	to multiply and divide
乘隙	to seize an opportunity; to exploit (a loophole)
乘風	to ride the wind; to use a fair wind; to take an opportunity
乘風破浪	to brave the wind and the billows (idiom); to have high ambitions
乘鶴	to fly on a crane; to die
乘龍	to ride the dragon; to die (of emperors and kings)
乘龍快婿	ideal son-in-law
乙	second of the ten Heavenly Stems 十天干[shi2 tian1 gan1]; second in order
乙丑	second year B2 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1985 or 2045
乙二醇	glycol; ethylene glycol C2H4(OH)2 (antifreeze)
乙亥	twelfth year B12 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1995 or 2055
乙卯	fifty-second year B4 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1975 or 2035
乙型	type B; type II; beta-
乙型肝炎	hepatitis B
乙型腦炎	Japanese encephalitis, aka epidemic encephalitis B
乙基	ethyl group (chemistry)
乙太網路	(Tw) Ethernet
乙女	(slang) maiden; young lady (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 乙女 "otome", used esp. to refer to romantic media and games aimed at women)
乙女心	Sedum pachyphyllum (a succulent plant with red-tipped leaves); jelly bean plant
乙巳	forty-second year B6 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1965 or 2025
乙方	party B (in a contract) (cf. 甲方[jia3 fang1], party A)
乙未	thirty-second year B8 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1955 or 2015
乙氧基	ethoxy (chemistry)
乙氨基	ethylamino group
乙流	type B influenza (abbr. for 乙型流感[yi3 xing2 liu2 gan3])
乙炔	acetylene; ethyne C2H2
乙烯	ethylene
乙烯基	(chemistry) vinyl group; ethenyl group
乙烷	ethane (C2H6)
乙狀結腸	sigmoid colon (anatomy)
乙硫醇	ethanethiol (chemistry)
乙種	type B; category B; second class or grade; beta-
乙種射線	beta ray (electron stream from radioactive decay)
乙種粒子	beta particle (electron, esp. high speed electron emitted by radioactive nucleus)
乙肝	hepatitis B
乙腦	Japanese encephalitis (abbr. for 乙型腦炎|乙型脑炎[yi3 xing2 nao3 yan2])
乙遊	otome game – a romance simulation game targeted at women, typically featuring female protagonists and multiple male love interests (abbr. for 乙女遊戲|乙女游戏[yi3 nu : 3 you2 xi4])
乙酉	twenty-second year B10 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2005 or 2065
乙酰	acetyl (chemistry)
乙酰胺吡咯烷酮	(pharmacology) piracetam (C6H10N2O2), a nootropic
乙酰膽鹼	acetylcholine ACh (amine related to vitamin B complex)
乙酸	acetic acid (CH3COOH); ethanoic acid
乙酸基	acetyl radical CH3COO-
乙酸根	acetyl radical CH3COO-
乙酸鹽	acetate CH3COO-
乙醇	ethanol; ethyl alcohol
乙醇酸	glycolic acid C2H4O3
乙醚	ether; diethyl ether C2H5OC2H5
乙醛	acetaldehyde H3CCHO; ethanal
乜	used in 乜斜[mie1 xie5]; (Cantonese) what?
乜嘢	what? (Cantonese) (Mandarin equivalent: 什麼|什么[shen2 me5])
乜斜	to squint
九	nine; 9
九一八事變	the Mukden or Manchurian Railway Incident of 18th September 1931 used by the Japanese as a pretext to annex Manchuria
九三學社	Jiusan Society, one of the eight political parties of the CCP
九九乘法表	multiplication table
九九歸一	nine divide by nine is one (abacus rule); when all is said and done
九九重陽	Double Ninth or Yang Festival; 9th day of 9th lunar month
九二共識	1992 Consensus, statement issued after 1992 talks between PRC and Taiwan representatives, asserting that there is only one China
九份	Jiufen (or Jioufen or Chiufen), mountainside town in north Taiwan, former gold mining town, used as the setting for two well-known movies
九價	(medicine) 9-valent HPV vaccine; Gardasil 9 (abbr. for 九價HPV疫苗|九价HPV疫苗[jiu3 jia4 HPV yi4 miao2])
九分之一	one ninth
九十	ninety
九卿	the nine top officials (in imperial China)
九原區	Jiuyuan, a district of Baotou City 包頭市|包头市[Bao1 tou2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
九台區	Jiutai, a district of Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
九天	the ninth heaven; the highest of the heavens
九天仙女	(idiom) celestial maiden of the highest heavens; (fig.) woman of extraordinary beauty
九天攬月	(idiom) to reach for the stars
九天玄女	Xuan Nü, a fairy in Chinese mythology
九孔	abalone (Haliotis diversicolor)
九官鳥	(Tw) (bird species of China) common hill myna (Gracula religiosa)
九宮山	Jiugong Mountains (the location of Jiugong Mountain National Park), in Tongshan County, Xianning 咸寧|咸宁[Xian2 ning2], Hubei
九宮格	3-by-3 grid
九宮格數獨	sudoku (puzzle game)
九寨溝	Jiuzhaigou Valley, Sichuan; Jiuzhaigou county, Sichuan
九寨溝縣	Jiuzhaigou, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
九寨溝風景名勝區	Jiuzhaigou Valley Scenic and Historical Interest Area, Sichuan
九尾狐	nine-tailed fox (mythological creature)
九尾龜	nine-tailed turtle of mythology
九層塔	basil
九嶷山	Jiuyi Mountains in Hunan on the border with Guangdong
九州	division of China during earliest dynasties; fig. ancient China
九巴	Kowloon Motor Bus (KMB) (abbr. for 九龍巴士|九龙巴士)
九成	nine-tenths; ninety percent
九折	10% off (price)
九月	September; ninth month (of the lunar year)
九月份	September
九校聯盟	C9 League, alliance of nine prestigious Chinese universities, established in 1998
九歸	abacus division rules (using a single-digit divisor)
九死一生	nine deaths and still alive (idiom); a narrow escape
九江市	Jiujiang, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
九泉	the nine springs; the underworld of Chinese mythology; Hades
九流	the nine schools of thought, philosophical schools of the Spring and Autumn and Warring States Periods (770-220 BC), viz Confucians 儒家[Ru2 jia1], Daoists 道家[Dao4 jia1], Yin and Yang 陰陽家|阴阳家[Yin1 yang2 jia1], Legalists 法家[Fa3 jia1], Logicians 名家[Ming2 jia1], Mohists 墨家[Mo4 jia1], Diplomats 縱橫家|纵横家[Zong4 heng2 jia1], Miscellaneous 雜家|杂家[Za2 jia1], and Agriculturalists 農家|农家[Nong2 jia1]
九淵	abyss; deep chasm
九牛一毛	(lit.) one hair from nine oxen (idiom); (fig.) a drop in the ocean
九牛二虎之力	tremendous strength (idiom)
九竅	nine orifices of the human body (eyes, nostrils, ears, mouth, urethra, anus)
九章算術	The Nine Chapters on the Mathematical Art
九聲六調	nine tones and six modes (tonal system of Cantonese and other southern languages)
九華山	Mount Jiuhua in Anhui, scenic tourist site, and one of the four famous Buddhist mountains
九號球	nine-ball (billiards game)
九連環	Chinese rings, a brainteaser toy consisting of nine rings interlocked on a looped handle, the objective being to remove the rings from the handle
九邊形	nonagon
九重霄	ninth heaven; Highest Heaven
九野	the nine "fields" into which Heaven was anciently divided
九零後	90s generation
九霄雲外	beyond the topmost clouds (idiom); unimaginably far away
九面體	enneahedron (solid figure having nine plane faces)
九頭鳥	legendary bird with nine heads (old); cunning or sly person
九香蟲	brown marmorated stinkbug (BMSB)
九鼎	the Nine Tripod Cauldrons, symbol of state power, dating back to the Xia Dynasty
九齒釘耙	The Nine-Toothed Rake (weapon of Zhu Bajie 豬八戒|猪八戒[Zhu1 Ba1 jie4])
九龍	Kowloon district of Hong Kong
九龍坡區	Jiulongpo, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
九龍城	Kowloon City, Hong Kong
九龍城寨	Kowloon Walled City
九龍縣	Jiulong, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
乞	to beg
乞丐	beggar
乞人	beggar
乞伏	tribe of the Xianbei 鮮卑|鲜卑 nomadic people
乞休	to request permission to resign from an official position (old)
乞兒	beggar
乞力馬扎羅山	Mt Kilimanjaro in Tanzania
乞和	to sue for peace
乞哀告憐	begging for pity and asking for help (idiom)
乞恕	to beg forgiveness
乞憐	to beg for pity
乞求	to beg
乞討	to beg; to go begging
乞貸	to beg for a loan
乞食	to beg for food
也	also; too; as well; (not ...) either
也好	that's fine; may as well
也好不了多少	hardly any better; just as bad
也好不到哪裡去	just as bad; not much better
也就是	in other words; i.e.
也就是說	in other words; that is to say; so
也有今天	(coll.) to get one's just deserts; to serve sb right
也罷	(reduplicated) whether... or...; never mind
也許	perhaps; maybe
也門	Yemen
乢	ancient variant of 蓋|盖[gai4]; ancient variant of 丐[gai4]
乩	to divine
乩童	(Daoism) a spirit medium, often a young person, believed to be possessed by a deity during rituals, acting as an intermediary for communication between the spirit world and humans
乪	a bend in a river (Cantonese)
乳	(bound form) breast; (bound form) milk; (bound form) newborn; suckling
乳交	mammary intercourse
乳光	(mineralogy, physics) opalescence
乳兒	nursing infant; child less than one year old
乳劑	emulsion
乳化	to emulsify
乳化劑	emulsifier
乳名	infant name; pet name for a child
乳品	dairy product
乳哺	(literary) to feed an infant breast milk
乳山市	Rushan, a county-level city in Weihai City 威海市[Wei1 hai3 Shi4], Shandong
乳房	breast; udder
乳房攝影	mammography
乳暈	mammary areola
乳果糖	lactulose
乳桿菌	lactobacillus
乳業	dairy industry; dairy farming
乳母	wet nurse
乳汁	milk; (botany) latex
乳液	lotion; (chemistry) emulsion
乳清	whey
乳源瑤族自治縣	Ruyuan Yao Autonomous County, in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
乳溝	cleavage (hollow between a woman's breasts)
乳滑	(Internet slang) variant of 辱華|辱华[ru3 Hua2], to insult China
乳漿	milky liquid; whey
乳燕	baby swallow
乳牙	(dentistry) deciduous tooth; baby tooth; milk tooth
乳牛	dairy cattle
乳痂	(medicine) cradle cap
乳癌	breast cancer
乳白	milky white; cream color
乳白天空	whiteout
乳白色	milky white
乳突	(anatomy) mastoid process
乳突竇	(anatomy) mastoid antrum
乳糖	lactose
乳糖不耐症	lactose intolerance
乳糜瀉	celiac disease
乳缽	small mortar used for grinding medicines into a powder (TCM)
乳罩	bra
乳脂	cream; milk fat
乳腐	fermented tofu
乳腺	mammary gland
乳腺炎	mastitis
乳腺癌	breast cancer
乳膠	latex
乳膠漆	latex paint; emulsion paint
乳臭未乾	lit. smell of breast milk not yet dried (idiom)
乳草	milkweeds (genus Asclepias)
乳製品	dairy products
乳豬	suckling pig
乳貼	nipple cover; pastie
乳部	breasts
乳酪	cheese
乳酪蛋糕	cheesecake
乳酪餅	(Tw) a square sheet of pastry, typically pan-fried and served with savory fillings or sweet jam
乳酸	lactic acid
乳酸桿菌	lactobacillus
乳酸菌	lactic acid bacteria
乳頭	nipple
乳頭瘤	papilloma
乳香	frankincense
乳黃色	cream (color)
乳齒	deciduous tooth; milk tooth; baby tooth
乴	to grasp
乶	(phonetic "pol", used in Korean place names)
乶下	Polha, a place in the Joseon dynasty province of Hamgyeong 咸鏡道|咸镜道[Xian2 jing4 Dao4]
乸	feminine suffix (Cantonese); postfix indicating feminine
乾	one of the Eight Trigrams 八卦[ba1 gua4], symbolizing heaven
乾俸	income provided by a sinecure
乾兒	adopted son (traditional adoption, i.e. without legal ramifications)
乾兒子	adopted son (traditional adoption, i.e. without legal ramifications)
乾冰	dry ice (i.e. frozen CO2)
乾咳	to cough without phlegm; a dry cough
乾嘉三大家	the three leading poets of the Qianlong-Jiaqing era (1735–1820), who championed personal expression and innovation in Qing poetry: Yuan Mei 袁枚[Yuan2 Mei2], Jiang Shiquan 蔣士銓|蒋士铨[Jiang3 Shi4 quan2] and Zhao Yi 趙翼|赵翼[Zhao4 Yi4]
乾嘔	to retch
乾噦	to dry-heave; to retch
乾嚎	to cry out loud without tears
乾坤	yin and yang; heaven and earth; the universe
乾女兒	adopted daughter (traditional adoption, i.e. without legal ramifications)
乾娘	adoptive mother (traditional adoption, i.e. without legal ramifications)
乾媽	adoptive mother (traditional adoption, i.e. without legal ramifications)
乾安縣	Qian'an, a county in Songyuan City 松原市[Song1 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
乾屍	desiccated corpse; mummified body
乾巴巴	dry; parched; dull
乾手機	hand dryer
乾打壘	rammed earth; adobe house
乾打雷，不下雨	all thunder but no rain (idiom); a lot of noise but no action
乾旦	male actor playing the female role (Chinese opera)
乾旱	drought; (of land, climate etc) arid; dry
乾旱土	aridisol (soil taxonomy)
乾杯	to drink a toast; Cheers! (proposing a toast); Here's to you!
乾果	dried fruit; dry fruits (nuts etc)
乾枯	withered; shriveled; dried-up
乾柴烈火	(idiom) explosive mutual passion; blaze of passion (esp. between lovers)
乾梅子	prunes
乾洗	to dry clean; dry cleaning
乾涸	to dry up
乾淨	clean; neat
乾淨利落	squeaky clean; neat and tidy; efficient
乾渴	parched; dry mouth
乾潮	low tide; low water
乾澀	dry and rough (skin); hoarse (voice); dry and heavy (style)
乾煸	to stir-fry with oil only (no addition of water)
乾煸四季豆	fried beans, Sichuan style
乾煸土豆絲	dry-fried potato slices (Chinese dish)
乾煸豆角	green beans in sauce, popular Beijing dish
乾燥	(of weather, climate, soil etc) dry; arid; (of skin, mouth etc) dry
乾燥劑	desiccant
乾燥機	a drier
乾爹	adoptive father (traditional adoption, i.e. without legal ramifications)
乾爽	dry and clean; clear and fresh
乾物女	single girl who lives a lackadaisical life, uninterested in relationships (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 干物女 "himono onna")
乾瘦	wizened; skinny and shriveled
乾癟	dried out; wizened; shriveled
乾癬	psoriasis
乾眼症	(medicine) xerophthalmia; dry eye syndrome
乾瞪眼	to watch helplessly
乾笑	to give a hollow laugh; to force a smile; forced laugh
乾等	to wait in vain; to sit around waiting
乾粉	dry powder
乾糧	rations (to take on expedition)
乾糧袋	knapsack (for provisions); haversack
乾縣	Qian County or Qianxian, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
乾脆	candid; direct and to the point; simply
乾脆利落	(of speech or actions) direct and efficient; without fooling around
乾草	hay
乾菜	dried vegetable
乾葉	dried leaf
乾著急	to worry helplessly
乾薑	dried ginger
乾號	to cry out loud without tears
乾衣	drysuit (diving)
乾裂	(of dry soil etc) to crack; (of skin) to chap
乾貝	conpoy; dried scallop (dried adductor muscle of a scallop)
乾貨	dried food (including dried fruits, mushrooms and seafoods such as shrimp and abalone)
乾透	to dry out; to dry completely
乾酪	cheese
乾酪素	casein
乾鍋	dry pot, a type of dish in which ingredients are wok-fried, then served hot in a clay pot or on a metal pan
乾陵	Qianling at Xianyang 咸陽市|咸阳市 in Shaanxi, burial site of third Tang emperor 高宗 and empress Wuzetian 武則天|武则天
乾隆	the Qianlong era
乾電池	dry cell (battery)
乾飯	plain cooked rice (as opposed to rice porridge)
乾餾	to carbonize; dry distillation; carbonization
乾麵	noodles mixed with a sauce and served with toppings (not in a soup)
亂	in confusion or disorder; in a confused state of mind; disorder
亂七八糟	(idiom) chaotic; in disorder; muddled
亂世	the world in chaos; troubled times; (in Buddhism) the mortal world
亂世佳人	Gone with the Wind (film)
亂丟	to discard in the wrong place (cigarette butts etc)
亂來	to act recklessly; to mess around
亂倫	to violate moral principles; depravity
亂動	to fiddle with; to tamper with; to meddle with
亂叫	to inconsiderately shout
亂吃	to eat indiscriminately
亂咕攘	to disturb (dialect)
亂哄哄	noisy and in disarray; in an uproar
亂套	in a mess; upside down
亂子	disturbance; trouble
亂寫	to write without basis
亂局	chaotic situation; turmoil; upheaval
亂彈琴	to talk nonsense; to behave like a fool
亂成一團	in a great mess; chaotic
亂扔	to throw (sth) without due care; (esp.) to litter
亂抓	to claw wildly; to scratch frantically
亂掉	messed up; in disarray; chaotic
亂搞	to make a mess; to mess with; to be wild
亂搞男女關係	to be promiscuous; to sleep around
亂政	to corrupt politics
亂數	(Tw) random number
亂民	rebels
亂畫	to doodle; graffito; doodle
亂真	to pass off as genuine; spurious
亂石	rocks; stones; rubble
亂石砸死	to stone to death
亂碼	mojibake (nonsense characters displayed when software fails to render text according to its intended character encoding)
亂竄	to flee in disarray; to scatter
亂糟糟	chaotic; topsy turvy; a complete mess
亂紀	to break the rules; to break discipline
亂臣賊子	rebels and traitors (idiom); general term for scoundrel
亂花	to spend recklessly; to waste money
亂花錢	to spend money recklessly; to squander
亂葬崗	unmarked burial mound; untended graveyard; mass grave
亂蓬蓬	disheveled; tangled
亂視	astigmatism (medicine) (Tw)
亂說	to talk drivel; to make irresponsible remarks
亂講	to talk nonsense; nonsense!
亂象	disorderly situation; chaotic state of affairs
亂跑	to run around; to run about aimlessly
亂跳	to jump about; (of the heart) to beat wildly
亂麻	lit. tangled skein; in a tremendous muddle; confused
亂黨	the rebel party
亃	mythical animal, said to have yellow body and white tail
亄	covetous; greedy; stingy
亅	"vertical stroke with hook" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 6), aka 豎鉤|竖钩[shu4 gou1]
了	(completed action marker)
了不得	terrific; terrible; (after 得[de5]) very
了不起	amazing; terrific; extraordinary
了了	to realize clearly; to settle a matter; to get it over with
了事	to dispose of a matter; to be done with it
了債	to repay one's debt
了卻	to resolve; to settle
了卻此生	to live out one's life; to die
了去了	(coll.) (after adjectives such as 多[duo1], 大[da4], 遠|远[yuan3], 高[gao1]) very
了如指掌	to know sth like the back of one's hand (idiom)
了局	end; conclusion; solution
了得	exceptional; outstanding; dreadful
了斷	to bring to a conclusion; to resolve (a dispute etc); to put an end to (once and for all); to break off (a relationship); to commit suicide; resolution (of a matter)
了此殘生	to live out the rest of one's life
了無	to completely lack; to have not even the slightest
了無新意	unoriginal; stereotyped
了無生趣	to lose all interest in life (idiom)
了然	to understand clearly; evident
了然於胸	(idiom) to be well aware; to understand clearly
了當	frank; outspoken; ready; settled; in order
了知	(Buddhism) to fully understand; to understand completely
了結	to settle; to finish; to conclude
了解	to understand; to know about; to learn about; to find out
予	(literary) to give
予人口實	to give cause for gossip
予以	to give; to impose; to apply
事	matter; thing; item
事不宜遲	the matter should not be delayed; there's no time to lose
事不過三	(idiom) a thing should not be attempted more than three times; don't repeat the same mistake again and again
事不關己	a matter of no concern to oneself (idiom)
事不關己，高高掛起	to feel unconcerned and let matters rest (idiom)
事主	victim (of a criminal); party involved (in a dispute etc)
事事	everything
事件	incident; event
事件相關電位	(neuroscience) event-related potential
事例	example; exemplar; typical case
事倍功半	(idiom) to expend twice the effort for half the result
事假	leave of absence for a personal matter
事先	in advance; before the event; beforehand
事先通知	preliminary notification; to announce in advance
事兒	one's employment; business; matter that needs to be settled
事兒B	(coll.) fussbudget; pain in the ass
事兒媽	(coll.) fussbudget; pain in the ass
事典	encyclopedia
事到今日	under the circumstances; the matter having come to that point
事到如今	as matters stand; things having reached this stage
事到臨頭	when things come to a head (idiom)
事前	in advance; before the event
事務	(political, economic etc) affairs; work
事務律師	solicitor (law)
事務所	business office; firm
事務繁忙	to be swamped with pressing affairs; to be snowed under with work
事勢	state of affairs
事半功倍	(idiom) to achieve twice the result with half the effort
事危累卵	lit. the matter has become a pile of eggs (idiom); fig. at a critical juncture
事在人為	the matter depends on the individual (idiom); it is a matter for your own effort
事奉	to serve
事宜	matters; arrangements
事實	fact
事實上	in fact; in reality; actually
事實勝於雄辯	facts speak louder than words (idiom)
事實婚	common-law marriage; de facto marriage
事實婚姻	de facto marriage; common-law marriage
事實根據	factual basis
事工	(Christianity) ministry (work of a spiritual or charitable nature)
事後	after the event; in hindsight; in retrospect
事後聰明	wise after the event (idiom); with hindsight, one should have predicted it
事後諸葛亮	person who is wise after the event
事必躬親	to attend to everything personally
事怕行家	an expert always produces the best work (idiom)
事情	affair; matter; thing; business
事態	situation; existing state of affairs
事態發展	course of events
事故	accident
事故照射	accidental exposure
事業	undertaking; project; activity
事業單位	public service institution (e.g. schools, hospitals)
事業心	devotion to one's work; professional ambition
事業有成	to be successful in business; professional success
事業線	(palmistry) fate line; career prospects line (running vertically up the palm to the base of the middle finger)
事業編	staffing quota for public service institutions; (by extension) a quota-based position in such an institution (abbr. for 事業編制|事业编制[shi4 ye4 bian1 zhi4])
事機	confidential aspects of a matter; secrets; key moment for action
事權	position; authority; responsibility
事無巨細	lit. things are not separated according to their size (idiom)
事物	thing; object
事理	reason; logic
事由	main content; matter; work
事界	event horizon
事略	biographical sketch
事發地點	the scene of the incident
事端	disturbance; incident
事與願違	things turn out contrary to the way one wishes (idiom)
事證	evidence
事變	incident; unforeseen event; events (in general)
事蹟	notable deeds; exploits
事過境遷	The issue is in the past, and the situation has changed (idiom).
事關	to concern; on (some topic); about
事關重大	the implications are profound; the ramifications are huge
事項	matter; item
事體	things; affairs; decorum
二	two; 2; (Beijing dialect) stupid
二一添作五	lit. one half equals zero point five (division rule in abacus reckoning)
二丁醚	dibutyl ether
二七區	Erqi, a district of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
二世	the Second (of numbered kings)
二世祖	profligate child of a wealthy family
二人世界	world with only two people (usually refers to a romantic couple)
二人臺	genre of song-and-dance duet popular in Inner Mongolia
二人轉	genre of song-and-dance duet popular in northeast China
二代	second generation
二伏	中伏[zhong1 fu2]
二來	secondly, ...
二便	urination and defecation
二倍體	diploid (in cell biology)
二側	two sides
二價	negotiable price; (chemistry) divalent; bivalent
二元	duality; dual; bipolar
二元論	dualism, belief that the universe is made of two different substance (e.g. mind and matter or good and evil)
二元醇	(chemistry) diol; alcohol with two hydroxyl groups
二八	16; sixteen
二八佳人	16-year-old beauty
二分	second part; the equinox
二分之一	one half
二分裂	binary division (in bacterial reproduction)
二分音符	minim (music)
二分點	the two equinoxes
二刻拍案驚奇	Slapping the Table in Amazement (Part II), second of two books of vernacular stories by Ming dynasty novelist Ling Mengchu 凌濛初|凌蒙初[Ling2 Meng2 chu1]
二副	second officer (of ship); second mate
二十	twenty; 20
二十一世紀	21st century
二十一條	the Japanese Twenty-One Demands of 1915
二十一點	blackjack (card game)
二十世紀	20th century
二十五史	twenty four dynastic histories (or 25 or 26 in modern editions)
二十八宿	the twenty-eight constellations
二十四史	the Twenty-Four Histories (25 or 26 in modern editions), collection of books on Chinese dynastic history from 3000 BC till 17th century
二十四孝	the Twenty-four Filial Exemplars, classic Confucian text on filial piety from Yuan dynasty
二十四節氣	the 24 solar terms, calculated from the position of the sun on the ecliptic, that divide the year into 24 equal periods
二十多	over 20
二十年目睹之怪現狀	The Strange State of the World Witnessed Over 20 Years, novel by late Qing novelist Wu Jianren 吳趼人|吴趼人[Wu2 Jian3 ren2]
二十面體	icosahedron
二叉樹	binary tree
二合一	2-in-1; two-in-one
二名法	binomial nomenclature (in taxonomy)
二哈	(coll.) silly but cute husky (dog)
二哥	second brother
二噁英	dioxin
二地主	sublandlord; tenant who sublets
二奶	mistress; second wife; lover
二婚	(coll.) (usu. of women in former times) to marry for a second time
二婚頭	remarried lady (contemptuous term); lady who marries for a second time
二審	(law) second instance; second trial
二寶	second child; second baby
二尕子	scoundrel
二尖瓣	mitral valve (physiology)
二尖瓣狹窄	mitral stenosis (physiology)
二屄	(slang) idiot; idiotic
二師兄	(humorous) pig (alluding to Zhu Bajie 豬八戒|猪八戒[Zhu1 Ba1 jie4])
二年生	(botany) (of a plant) biennial
二度	again; twice; (music) second (i.e. an interval between adjacent notes)
二心	disloyalty; half-heartedness; duplicity
二惡英	dioxin
二愣子	stupid person; dolt; rash (slang)
二戰	World War II
二房	second branch of an extended family; concubine
二房東	sublandlord; tenant who sublets
二手	indirectly acquired; second-hand (information, equipment etc)
二手房	second-hand house; house acquired indirectly through a middle-man
二手煙	second-hand smoke
二手貨	second-hand goods; used goods
二手車	second-hand car
二把刀	inexpert; a botcher
二把手	deputy leader; the second-in-command
二拇指	index finger
二指	index finger
二斑百靈	(bird species of China) bimaculated lark (Melanocorypha bimaculata)
二更	second of the five night watch periods 21:00-23:00 (old)
二月	February; second month (of the lunar year)
二月份	February
二杆子	hot-tempered; rash; hot-tempered person
二極管	diode
二次	second (i.e. number two); second time; twice
二次世界大戰	World War Two
二次元	two-dimensional; the fictional worlds of anime, comics and games
二次函數	quadratic function
二次型	quadratic form (math.)
二次多項式	(math.) quadratic polynomial
二次大戰	World War Two
二次方	square (i.e. x times x)
二次方程	(math.) quadratic equation
二次曲	quadratic curve; conic section (geometry)
二次曲線	quadratic curve (geometry); conic
二次曲面	quadric surface (geometry)
二次革命	Second Revolution, campaign from 1913 of the provisional revolutionary government (under Sun Yat-sen and the Guomindang) against Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3] and the Northern Warlords
二正丙醚	di-n-propyl ether
二毛子	lit. secondary foreigner
二氧化氮	nitrogen dioxide
二氧化物	dioxide
二氧化硅	silicon dioxide (SiO2)
二氧化硫	sulfur dioxide SO2
二氧化碳	carbon dioxide CO2
二氧化碳隔離	carbon sequestration; carbon dioxide sequestration
二氧化鈦	titanium dioxide
二氧化鈾	uranium dioxide
二氧化錳	manganese(iv) oxide
二氧芑	dioxin
二氧雜芑	dioxin
二氯甲烷	dichloromethane
二氯異三聚氰酸鈉	sodium dichloroisocyanurate
二氯胺	(chemistry) dichloramine
二氯苯胺苯乙酸鈉	diclofenac sodium (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug used to reduce swelling and as painkiller)
二水貨	used goods; second hand goods
二流	second-rate; second-tier
二流子	loafer; idler; bum
二湯	second bouillon, a light broth obtained by reboiling ingredients that were previously used to make a full-strength first bouillon 頭湯|头汤[tou2 tang1]
二甘醇	diethylene glycol
二產婦	lady who has given birth twice
二甲	2nd rank of candidates who passed the imperial examination (i.e. 4th place and up)
二甲基砷酸	dimethylarsenic acid (CH3)2AsO2H; cacodylic acid
二甲基胂酸	dimethylarsenic acid (CH3)2AsO2H; cacodylic acid
二甲苯	xylene
二疊紀	Permian (geological period 292-250m years ago)
二百五	idiot; stupid person; a dope
二硫化碳	carbon disulfide
二硫基丙磺酸鈉	sodium dimercaptosulfanate
二硫基丙醇	dimercaprol
二硫基琥珀酸鈉	sodium dimercaptosuccinate
二硫鍵	disulfide (chemistry)
二磷酸腺苷	adenosine diphosphate (ADP)
二等	second class; second-rate
二等公民	second-class citizen
二等艙	second class cabin
二等車	second-class carriage (of a train)
二節棍	nunchaku (weapon with two rods joined by a short chain, used in martial arts)
二簡	Second Chinese Character Simplification Scheme (abbr. for 第二次漢字簡化方案|第二次汉字简化方案[Di4 er4 Ci4 Han4 zi4 Jian3 hua4 Fang1 an4])
二糖	disaccharide
二級	grade 2; second class; category B
二級士官	sergeant
二級頭	second stage (diving)
二級頭呼吸器	(scuba diving) regulator; demand valve
二維	two-dimensional
二維碼	2D barcode; matrix code; (esp.) QR code
二線	second line of defense; secondary or supporting position
二老	mother and father; parents
二者	both; both of them; neither
二聚體	dimer (chemistry)
二聯式發票	(Tw) duplicate uniform invoice, a type of receipt 統一發票|统一发票[tong3 yi1 fa1 piao4] issued to a person or organization without a VAT identification number
二聲	second tone
二胎	second pregnancy
二胡	erhu (Chinese 2-string fiddle); alto fiddle
二致	difference (usu. follows 無|无[wu2] as in 毫無二致|毫无二致[hao2 wu2 er4 zhi4] or 別無二致|别无二致[bie2 wu2 er4 zhi4])
二苯氯胂	diphenylchloroarsine
二茬罪	to suffer second persecution
二號	2nd day of the month
二號人物	second-in-command
二號電池	(Tw) C size battery (PRC equivalent: 三號電池|三号电池[san1 hao4 dian4 chi2])
二話	objection; differing opinion
二話不說	(idiom) not saying anything further; not raising any objection; without demur
二貨	(slang) fool; dunce; foolishly cute person
二踢腳	double-bang firecracker (which explodes once on the ground and then a second time in the air after being propelled upward)
二輪	second round (of a match or election)
二輪片	second-run movie
二連巨盜龍	Gigantoraptor erlianensis (a giant bird-like dinosaur found in Erlian in Inner Mongolia)
二連浩特市	Erenhot, a county-level city in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
二連盆地	Erlian Basin in Inner Mongolia
二進	binary (math.)
二進制	binary system (math.)
二進制編碼	binary code; binary encoding
二進宮	name of a famous opera; (slang) to go to jail for a second offense
二遍苦	second persecution
二過一	(soccer) one-two; push-and-run
二道區	Erdao, a district of Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
二道江區	Erdaojiang, a district of Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
二道販子	middleman; buyer and seller
二郎神	Erlangshen, Chinese deity
二郎腿	one leg over the other (legs crossed)
二部制	two shift system (in schools)
二醇	glycol
二里頭	Erlitou (Xia dynasty 夏朝[Xia4 chao2] archaeological site at Yanshi 偃師|偃师[Yan3 shi1] in Luoyang 洛陽|洛阳[Luo4 yang2], Henan)
二重	double; repeated twice
二重下標	double subscript; doubly indexed
二重唱	duet
二重奏	duet (in music)
二重性	dualism; two sided; double nature
二重根	a double root of an equation
二重母音	diphthong
二鍋頭	erguotou (sorghum liquor)
二階	second order; quadratic (math.)
二項式	two items; binomial (math.)
二項式係數	(math.) binomial coefficient
二項式定理	the binomial theorem (math.)
二頭肌	biceps muscle
二鬼子	traitor; collaborator with the enemy
二黃	one of the two chief types of music in Chinese opera; Peking opera
亍	to step with the right foot (used in 彳亍[chi4 chu4])
于	to go; to take; sentence-final interrogative particle
于丹	Yu Dan (1965–), Chinese scholar and author known for popularizing Chinese classical thought
于歸	(literary) (of a girl) to marry
于歸之喜	the joy of matrimony (polite phrase referring to a young woman)
于洪區	Yuhong, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
于田縣	Yutian, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
于都縣	Yudu, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
云	(classical) to say
云云	and so on; so and so; many and confused
云城區	Yuncheng, a district of Yunfu City 雲浮市|云浮市[Yun2 fu2 Shi4], Guangdong
互	mutual
互不侵犯	non-aggression
互不相讓	neither giving way to the other
互信	mutual trust
互利	mutually beneficial
互助	to help each other
互助土族自治縣	Huzhu Tu Autonomous County, in Haidong City 海東市|海东市[Hai3 dong1 Shi4], Qinghai
互勉	to encourage each other
互動	to interact; interactive
互動電視	interactive TV
互惠	mutual benefit; mutually beneficial; reciprocal
互惠生	au pair
互扔	to throw (sth) at each other
互換	to exchange
互操性	interoperability
互文	paired phrases (poetic device)
互斥	mutually exclusive
互毆	to fight each other; to come to blows
互為因果	mutually related karma (idiom); fates are intertwined; interdependent
互生	alternate leaf arrangement (botany)
互生葉	alternate phyllotaxy (leaf pattern)
互異	differing from one another; mutually different
互相	each other; mutually; mutual
互相依存	interdependent
互相扯皮	to pass the buck; to shirk responsibility
互相推諉	mutually shirking responsibilities (idiom); each blaming the other
互相監督	mutual supervision
互相聯繫	mutually related; interconnected
互相連接	interlinked
互粉	to follow each other's accounts (on Weibo etc)
互素	(math.) coprime; relatively prime (having no common factor)
互聯	interconnected
互聯網	Internet
互聯網站	Internet site
互聯網絡	network
互補	complementary; to complement each other
互訪	exchange visits
互訴衷腸	(idiom) to confide in each other
互譯	two-way translation
互讓	to yield to one another; mutual accommodation
互通	to intercommunicate; to interoperate
互通性	interoperability (of communications equipment)
互通有無	(idiom) mutual exchange of assistance; to benefit from each other's strengths and make up each other's shortfalls; to reciprocate with material assistance; to scratch each other's back
互連	interconnection
互關	to follow each other on a social media platform (abbr. for 互相關注|互相关注[hu4 xiang1 guan1 zhu4])
亓	his; her; its
五	five; 5
五一	5-1 (May 1st)
五七	memorial activity 35 days after a person's death
五七幹校	May 7 cadre school (farm where urban cadres had to undertake manual labor and study ideology during the Cultural Revolution) (abbr. for 五七幹部學校|五七干部学校[Wu3 Qi1 Gan4 bu4 Xue2 xiao4])
五七幹部學校	May 7 cadre school (farm where urban cadres had to undertake manual labor and study ideology during the Cultural Revolution)
五世	the fifth (of series of numbered kings)
五五	50-50; equal (share, partnership etc)
五五開	(coll.) fifty-fifty (equally divided or equally likely)
五人墓碑記	Five Men's Tombstone Inscription, an essay by Zhang Pu 張溥|张溥[Zhang1 Pu3] commemorating five martyrs who died resisting the tyranny of Wei Zhongxian 魏忠賢|魏忠贤[Wei4 Zhong1 xian2] during the late Ming dynasty
五代	Five Dynasties, period of history between the fall of the Tang dynasty (907) and the founding of the Song dynasty (960), when five would-be dynasties were established in quick succession in North China
五代十國	Five Dynasties (907-960) and Ten Kingdoms (902-979), period of political turmoil in ancient China
五代史	History of the Five Dynasties, eighteenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Xue Juzheng 薛居正[Xue1 Ju1 zheng4] in 974 during Northern Song 北宋[Bei3 Song4], 150 scrolls
五倍子樹	Chinese sumac (Rhus chinensis)
五倫	the five Confucian relationships (ruler-subject, father-son, brother-brother, husband-wife, friend-friend)
五光十色	(idiom) bright and multicolored; of rich variety; dazzling; glitzy
五分之一	one fifth
五分熟	medium (of steak)
五分美金	nickel; five US cents
五刑	imperial five punishments of feudal China, up to Han times: tattooing characters on the forehead 墨[mo4], cutting off the nose 劓[yi4], amputation of one or both feet 刖[yue4], castration 宮|宫[gong1], execution 大辟[da4 pi4]
五加	Acanthopanax gracilistylus
五勞七傷	(TCM) "five strains and seven impairments", five referring to the five viscera 五臟|五脏[wu3 zang4], and seven to adverse effects on one's body as a result of: overeating (spleen), anger (liver), moisture (kidney), cold (lung), worry (heart), wind and rain (outer appearance) and fear (mind)
五十	fifty
五十步笑百步	(lit.) the one who has retreated 50 steps laughs at the one who has retreated 100 steps (idiom)
五十肩	adhesive capsulitis (frozen shoulder)
五十鈴	Isuzu
五卅	abbr. for 五卅運動|五卅运动[wu3 sa4 yun4 dong4], The May Thirtieth Movement (1925)
五卅運動	anti-imperialist movement of 30th May 1925, involving general strike esp. in Shanghai, Guangzhou, Hong Kong etc
五原縣	Wuyuan, a county in Bayannur City 巴彥淖爾市|巴彦淖尔市[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
五口通商	the five treaty ports forced on Qing China by the 1842 treaty of Nanjing 南京條約|南京条约 that concluded the First Opium War, namely: Guangzhou 廣州|广州, Fuzhou 福州, Ningbo 寧波|宁波, Xiamen or Amoy 廈門|厦门 and Shanghai 上海
五味	the five flavors, namely: sweet 甜, sour 酸, bitter 苦, spicy hot 辣, salty 鹹|咸
五味俱全	a complete gamut of all five flavors (idiom); every flavor under the sun
五味子	schizandra (Schisandra chinensis); Magnolia vine
五味雜陳	with complex feelings (idiom)
五四	fourth of May, cf 五四運動|五四运动, national renewal movement that started with 4th May 1919 protest against the Treaty of Versailles
五四愛國運動	May Fourth Movement
五四運動	May Fourth Movement
五大三粗	burly; strapping; big and strong
五大名山	Five Sacred Mountains of the Daoists, namely: Mt Tai 泰山[Tai4 Shan1] in Shandong, Mt Hua 華山|华山[Hua4 Shan1] in Shaanxi, Mt Heng 衡山[Heng2 Shan1] in Hunan, Mt Heng 恆山|恒山[Heng2 Shan1] in Shanxi, Mt Song 嵩山[Song1 Shan1] in Henan
五大洲	five continents; the whole world
五大湖	the Great Lakes (of North America)
五大連池市	Wudalianchi, a county-level city in Heihe City 黑河市[Hei1 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
五子棋	five-in-a-row (game similar to tic-tac-toe); Japanese: gomoku; gobang
五官	five sense organs of TCM (nose, eyes, lips, tongue, ears 鼻目口舌耳)
五官端正	to have regular features
五家渠	Wujyachü shehiri (Wujiaqu city) or Wǔjiāqú subprefecture level city in Ili Kazakh autonomous prefecture in north Xinjiang
五家渠市	Wujyachü shehiri (Wujiaqu city) or Wǔjiāqú subprefecture level city in Ili Kazakh autonomous prefecture in north Xinjiang
五寨縣	Wuzhai, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
五峰土家族自治縣	Wufeng Tujia Autonomous County, in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
五嶺	the five ranges separating Hunan and Jiangxi from south China, esp. Guangdong and Guangxi, namely: Dayu 大庾嶺|大庾岭[Da4 yu3 ling3], Dupang 都龐嶺|都庞岭[Du1 pang2 ling3], Qitian 騎田嶺|骑田岭[Qi2 tian2 ling3], Mengzhu 萌渚嶺|萌渚岭[Meng2 zhu3 ling3] and Yuecheng 越城嶺|越城岭[Yue4 cheng2 ling3]
五嶽	Five Sacred Mountains of the Daoists, namely: Mt Tai 泰山[Tai4 Shan1] in Shandong, Mt Hua 華山|华山[Hua4 Shan1] in Shaanxi, Mt Heng 衡山[Heng2 Shan1] in Hunan, Mt Heng 恆山|恒山[Heng2 Shan1] in Shanxi, Mt Song 嵩山[Song1 Shan1] in Henan
五帝	the Five Legendary Emperors, usually taken to be the Yellow Emperor 黃帝|黄帝[Huang2 di4], Zhuanxu 顓頊|颛顼[Zhuan1 xu1], Di Ku 帝嚳|帝喾[Di4 Ku4], Tang Yao 唐堯|唐尧[Tang2 Yao2] and Yu Shun 虞舜[Yu2 Shun4]
五常	the five cardinal virtues in traditional Chinese ethics: benevolence 仁[ren2], justice 義|义[yi4], propriety 禮|礼[li3], wisdom 智[zhi4] and honor 信[xin4]
五常市	Wuchang, a county-level city in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
五度	five degrees; fifth (basic musical interval, doh to soh)
五形	Wuxing - "Five Animals" - Martial Art
五彩	five (main) colors (white, black, red, yellow, and blue); multicolored
五彩紙屑	confetti
五彩繽紛	all the colors in profusion (idiom); a garish display
五打一	to masturbate (slang)
五指	the five fingers of one's hand
五指山	Wuzhi Mountain (1,840 m), highest mountain in Hainan
五指山市	Wuzhishan City, Hainan
五斗櫃	chest of drawers
五斗米道	Way of the Five Pecks of Rice (Taoist movement)
五方	the five regions: the east, south, west, north and center; all parts
五旬節	Pentecost
五星	the five visible planets, namely: Mercury 水星, Venus 金星, Mars 火星, Jupiter 木星, Saturn 土星
五星紅旗	five-starred red flag (PRC national flag)
五星級	five-star (hotel)
五更	fifth of the five night watch periods 03:00-05:00 (old)
五月	May; fifth month (of the lunar year)
五月份	May
五月節	Dragon Boat Festival (the 5th day of the 5th lunar month)
五權憲法	Sun Yat-sen's Five-power constitution of Republic of China, then of Taiwan
五步蛇	Deinagkistrodon acutus, a species of venomous pit viper (lit. "five-pace snake" – supposedly, a person bitten by it can only walk five steps before succumbing to the venom)
五毛	fifty cents (0.5 RMB); (fig.) paltry sum of money
五毛特效	laughable low-budget special effects
五毛黨	fifty cents party (person supposed to relay government propaganda on Internet sites)
五氧化二釩	Vanadium pentoxide V2O5; vanadic anhydride
五河縣	Wuhe, a county in Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
五洲	five continents; the world
五涼	the five Liang of the Sixteen Kingdoms, namely: Former Liang 前涼|前凉 (314-376), Later Liang 後涼|后凉 (386-403), Northern Liang 北涼|北凉 (398-439), Southern Liang 南涼|南凉[Nan2 Liang2] (397-414), Western Liang 西涼|西凉 (400-421)
五湖四海	all parts of the country
五濁	the five impurities (Buddhism)
五燈會元	Song Dynasty History of Zen Buddhism in China (1252), 20 scrolls
五環	five rings; pentacyclic (chemistry)
五環會徽	Olympic rings
五瘟	five chief demons of folklore personifying pestilence
五瘟神	five chief demons of folklore personifying pestilence
五百年前是一家	five hundred years ago we were the same family (saying) (said of persons with the same surname)
五短身材	(of a person) short in stature
五碳糖	pentose (CH2O)5, monosaccharide with five carbon atoms, such as ribose 核糖[he2 tang2]
五祖拳	Wuzuquan - "Five Ancestors" - Martial Art
五福臨門	lit. (may the) five blessings descend upon this home (namely: longevity, wealth, health, virtue, and a natural death)
五稜鏡	pentaprism
五穀	five crops, e.g. millet 粟[su4], soybean 豆[dou4], sesame 麻[ma2], barley 麥|麦[mai4], rice 稻[dao4] or other variants
五穀豐登	abundant harvest of all food crops; bumper grain harvest
五筆	abbr. of 五筆字型|五笔字型, five stroke input method for Chinese characters by numbered strokes, invented by Wang Yongmin 王永民 in 1983
五筆字型	five stroke input method for Chinese characters by numbered strokes, invented by Wang Yongmin 王永民 in 1983
五筆字形	Chinese character input method for entering characters by numbered strokes (variant of 五筆字型|五笔字型[wu3 bi3 zi4 xing2])
五筆編碼	five-stroke code, Chinese character input method
五筆輸入法	five stroke input method for Chinese characters by numbered strokes, invented by Wang Yongmin 王永民 in 1983
五等爵位	five orders of feudal nobility, namely: Duke 公[gong1], Marquis 侯[hou2], Count 伯[bo2], Viscount 子[zi3], Baron 男[nan2]
五糧液	Wuliangye liquor; Five Grain liquor
五級士官	master sergeant
五經	the Five Classics of Confucianism, namely: the Book of Songs 詩經|诗经[Shi1 jing1], the Book of History 書經|书经[Shu1 jing1], the Classic of Rites 禮記|礼记[Li3 ji4], the Book of Changes 易經|易经[Yi4 jing1], and the Spring and Autumn Annals 春秋[Chun1 qiu1]
五線譜	(music) staff; stave
五聲音階	pentatonic scale
五胡	Five non-Han people, namely: Huns or Xiongnu 匈奴[Xiong1 nu2], Xianbei 鮮卑|鲜卑[Xian1 bei1], Jie 羯[Jie2], Di 氐[Di1], Qiang 羌[Qiang1], esp. in connection with the Sixteen Kingdoms 304-439 五胡十六國|五胡十六国[Wu3 hu2 Shi2 liu4 guo2]
五胡十六國	Sixteen Kingdoms of Five non-Han people (ruling most of China 304-439)
五臟	five viscera of TCM, namely: heart 心[xin1], liver 肝[gan1], spleen 脾[pi2], lungs 肺[fei4] and kidneys 腎|肾[shen4]
五臟六腑	five viscera and six bowels (TCM)
五臺山	Mt Wutai in Shanxi 山西[Shan1 xi1], one of the Four Sacred Mountains and home of the Bodhimanda of Manjushri 文殊[Wen2 shu1]
五臺市	Wutai city in Shanxi
五臺縣	Wutai, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
五色	multicolored; the rainbow; garish
五色繽紛	all the colors in profusion (idiom); a garish display
五芒星	five-pointed star; pentagram
五花八門	myriad; all kinds of; all sorts of
五花大綁	to bind a person's upper body, with arms tied behind the back and rope looped around the neck
五花肉	pork belly; streaky pork
五苓散	wuling powder (decoction of poria mushroom used in TCM)
五華區	Wuhua, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
五華縣	Wuhua, a county in Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
五葉松	Taiwan white pine (Pinus morrisonicola)
五葷	(Buddhism etc) the five forbidden pungent vegetables: leek, scallion, garlic, rape and coriander
五蓮縣	Wulian, a county in Rizhao City 日照市[Ri4 zhao4 Shi4], Shandong
五蘊	the Five Aggregates (from Sanskrit "skandha") (Buddhism)
五虎將	Liu Bei's five great generals in Romance of the Three Kingdoms, namely: Guan Yu 關羽|关羽, Zhang Fei 張飛|张飞, Zhao Yun 趙雲|赵云, Ma Chao 馬超|马超, Huang Zhong 黃忠|黄忠
五號	the fifth; fifth day of a month
五號電池	AA battery (PRC); Taiwan equivalent: 三號電池|三号电池[san1 hao4 dian4 chi2]
五行	five phases of Chinese philosophy: wood 木, fire 火, earth 土, metal 金, water 水
五行八作	all the trades; people of all trades and professions
五角	pentagon
五角場	Wujiaochang neighborhood of Shanghai, adjacent to Fudan University
五角大廈	(Tw) the Pentagon
五角大樓	the Pentagon
五角形	pentagon
五角星	five-pointed star; pentagram
五言絕句	poetic form consisting of four lines of five syllables, with rhymes on first, second and fourth line
五講四美三熱愛	the five emphases, four beauties and three loves (PRC policy introduced in 1981, including emphasis on manners, beauty of language and love of socialism)
五辛素	(adjective) non-Buddhist vegetarian (allowing strong-smelling vegetables like garlic and onions)
五通	bottom bracket shell (in a bicycle frame)
五通橋區	Wutongqiao, a district of Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
五道口	Wudaokou neighborhood of Beijing
五邊形	pentagon
五金	metal hardware (nuts and bolts)
五金店	hardware store; ironmonger's store
五金店鋪	hardware store
五針松	Japanese white pine (Pinus parviflora)
五院	the five yuan (administrative branches of government) of the Republic of China under Sun Yat-sen's constitution: 行政院[Xing2 zheng4 yuan4] Executive Yuan, 立法院[Li4 fa3 yuan4] Legislative Yuan, 司法院[Si1 fa3 yuan4] Judicial Yuan, 考試院|考试院[Kao3 shi4 yuan4] Examination Yuan, 監察院|监察院[Jian1 cha2 yuan4] Control Yuan
五險一金	employment benefits package mandated by labor laws in China, consisting of five insurances (pension, medical, unemployment, work injury, and maternity) and a housing fund
五霸	the Five Hegemons of the Spring and Autumn Period 春秋[Chun1 qiu1]
五音	five notes of pentatonic scale, roughly do, re, mi, sol, la
五音不全	tone deaf; unable to sing in tune
五音度	fifth (musical interval)
五項全能	pentathlon
五顏六色	multicolored; every color under the sun
五香	five spice seasoned
五香粉	five-spice powder
五馬分屍	(idiom) to tear off sb's four limbs and head using five horse-drawn carts (historical form of capital punishment); (fig.) to tear apart; to utterly destroy; to brutally dismember
五體投地	to prostrate oneself in admiration (idiom); to adulate sb
五鬼	five chief demons of folklore personifying pestilence
五鬼鬧判	Five ghosts mock the judge, or Five ghosts resist judgment (title of folk opera, idiom); important personage mobbed by a crowd of ne'er-do-wells
井	Jing, one of the 28 constellations of Chinese astronomy; surname Jing
井上	Inoue (Japanese surname, pr. "ee-no-oo-ay")
井下	underground; in the pit (mining)
井井	always clean; orderly; methodical
井井有條	everything clear and orderly (idiom); neat and tidy
井口	mouth of a well
井噴	(oil) blowout; surge; gush
井字棋	tic-tac-toe
井岡山	Jinggang Mountains, in the Jiangxi-Hunan border region
井岡山市	Jinggangshan, a county-level city in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
井底之蛙	(lit.) a frog at the bottom of a well (idiom)
井水	well water
井水不犯河水	(saying) everyone minds their own business
井然	tidy, methodical
井然有序	everything clear and in good order (idiom); neat and tidy
井田	the well-field system of ancient China
井田制	well-field system
井研縣	Jingyan, a county in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
井繩	rope for drawing water from a well
井臺	platform around the opening of a well
井蓋	manhole cover (more formally, 窨井蓋|窨井盖[yin4 jing3 gai4])
井號	number sign # (punctuation); hash symbol; pound sign
井蛙之見	the view of a frog in a well (idiom); fig. a narrow view
井陘礦區	Jingxing Mining District, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
井陘縣	Jingxing, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
井鹽	salt produced by evaporating brine drawn from wells
亙	extending all the way across; running all the way through
亙古	throughout time; from ancient times (up to the present)
亙古不變	unchanging since times immemorial (idiom); unalterable; unvarying
亙古未有	unprecedented; never seen since ancient times
亙古通今	from ancient times up to now; throughout history
些	classifier indicating a small amount or small number greater than 1: some, a few, several
些微	slight; minor; small; slightly
些許	a few; a little; a bit
亞	Asia; Asian; Taiwan pr. [Ya3]
亞丁	Aden
亞丁灣	Gulf of Aden
亞伯	Abe (short form for Abraham)
亞伯拉罕	(name) Abraham
亞伯氏症	Apert syndrome
亞們	Amon (son of Manasseh)
亞倫	Aaron (name); Yaren, capital of Nauru
亞健康	suboptimal health status
亞克力	(loanword) acrylic
亞冬會	Asian Winter Games
亞利安娜	Ariane (French space rocket)
亞利桑納州	state of Arizona
亞利桑那	Arizona
亞利桑那州	Arizona
亞努科維奇	Viktor Feyedov Yanukovych (1950-) Ukrainian politician
亞原子	subatomic
亞哈	Ahab (9th c. BC), King of Israel, son of Omri and husband of Jezebel, prominent figure in 1 Kings 16-22
亞哈斯	Ahaz (son of Jotham)
亞喀巴	Aqaba (port city in Jordan)
亞單位	subunit
亞型	subtype; subcategory
亞塞拜然	(Tw) Azerbaijan
亞太	Asia-Pacific
亞太區	Asian area; the Far East; Asia Pacific region
亞太地區	Asia-Pacific region
亞太經合會	APEC (Asia Pacific economic cooperation)
亞太經合組織	APEC (organization)
亞太經濟合作組織	Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperation organization; APEC
亞巴郎	(Catholicism) Abraham
亞平寧	Apennine (Mountains)
亞庇	Kota Kinabalu (capital of Sabah state, Malaysia)
亞弗烈	Alfred (name)
亞得里亞海	Adriatic Sea
亞急性	subacute
亞所	Azor (son of Eliakim and father of Zadok in Matthew 1:13-14)
亞投行	Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, abbr. for 亞洲基礎設施投資銀行|亚洲基础设施投资银行[Ya4 zhou1 Ji1 chu3 She4 shi1 Tou2 zi1 Yin2 hang2]
亞拉伯	(old) Arabia
亞拉巴馬	Alabama, US state
亞撒	Asa (?-870 BC), third king of Judah and fifth king of the House of David (Judaism)
亞文化	subculture
亞東縣	Yadong, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
亞松森	Asunción, capital of Paraguay
亞歐大陸	Eurasian continent
亞歐大陸橋	Eurasian land bridge (rail line linking China and Europe)
亞歐大陸腹地	Eurasian hinterland (i.e. Central Asia including Xinjiang)
亞歷山大	Alexander (name); Alexandria (town name)
亞歷山大·杜布切克	Alexander Dubček (1921-1992), leader of Czechoslovakia (1968-1969)
亞歷山大大帝	Alexander the Great (356-323 BC)
亞歷山大里亞	Alexandria
亞歷山大鸚鵡	(bird species of China) Alexandrine parakeet (Psittacula eupatria)
亞比利尼	Abilene
亞比玉	Abiud (son of Zerubbabel)
亞洲	Asia (abbr. for 亞細亞洲|亚细亚洲[Ya4 xi4 ya4 Zhou1])
亞洲周刊	Asiaweek (Asian current affairs magazine, 1975–2001)
亞洲杯	Asian Cup
亞洲梨	Asian pear; sand pear (Pyrus pyrifolia)
亞洲漠地林鶯	(bird species of China) Asian desert warbler (Curruca nana)
亞洲盃	Asian Cup
亞洲短趾百靈	(bird species of China) Asian short-toed lark (Alaudala cheleensis)
亞洲足球聯合會	Asian Football Confederation (AFC), the governing body of football (soccer) in Asia
亞洲開發銀行	Asian Development Bank
亞熱帶	subtropical (zone or climate)
亞父	(term of respect) second only to father; like a father (to me)
亞特蘭大	Atlanta
亞琛	Aachen, city in Nordrhein-Westfalen, Germany; Aix-la-Chapelle
亞瑟	(name) Arthur
亞瑟士	ASICS (Japanese footwear brand)
亞瑟王	King Arthur
亞界	subkingdom (taxonomy)
亞當	Adam
亞當·斯密	Adam Smith (1723-1790), Scottish ethical philosopher and pioneer economist, author of The Wealth of Nations 國富論|国富论
亞當斯	Adams
亞當斯敦	Adamstown, capital of the Pitcairn Islands
亞的斯亞貝巴	Addis Ababa, capital of Ethiopia
亞目	suborder (taxonomy)
亞砷酸	arsenous acid
亞硝胺	nitrosamine
亞硝酸	nitrous acid
亞硝酸異戊酯	amyl nitrite
亞硝酸鈉	sodium nitrite
亞硝酸鹽	nitrite
亞硫酸	sulfurous acid H2SO3
亞科	subfamily (taxonomy)
亞種	subspecies (taxonomy)
亞穆蘇克羅	Yamoussoukro (city in the Ivory Coast)
亞答子	attap seed; attap chee
亞米拿達	Amminadab (son of Ram)
亞純	meromorphic (math.)
亞細亞	Asia
亞細亞洲	Asia
亞細安	(Singapore, Malaysia) ASEAN
亞綱	subclass (taxonomy)
亞羅士打	Alor Star city, capital of Kedah state in northwest Malaysia
亞羅號	the Arrow (a Hong Kong registered ship involved in historical incident in 1856 used as pretext for the second Opium War)
亞羅號事件	the Arrow Incident of 1856 (used as pretext for the second Opium War)
亞美利加	America
亞美利加洲	America; abbr. to 美洲[Mei3 zhou1]
亞美尼亞	Armenia
亞聖	Second Sage, traditional title of Mencius 孟子[Meng4 zi3] in Confucian studies
亞臨界	subcritical
亞蘭	Ram (son of Hezron)
亞裔	of Asian descent
亞西爾·阿拉法特	Yasser Arafat (1929–2004), Palestinian leader
亞該亞	Achaia
亞足聯	Asian Football Confederation (abbr. for 亞洲足球聯合會|亚洲足球联合会[Ya4 zhou1 Zu2 qiu2 Lian2 he2 hui4])
亞軍	second place (in a sports contest); runner-up
亞速海	Sea of Azov in southern Russia
亞速爾群島	Azores Islands
亞運	Asian Games
亞運會	Asian Games
亞運村	Yayuncun neighborhood of Beijing
亞達薛西	Artaxerxes
亞里士多德	Aristotle (384-322 BC), Greek philosopher
亞里斯多德	Aristotle (philosopher)
亞金	Achim (son of Zadok in Matthew 1:14)
亞門	(biology) subphylum (in zoological taxonomy); subdivision (in the taxonomy of plants or fungi)
亞非拉	Asia, Africa and Latin America
亞類	subtype; subclass
亞馬孫	Amazon
亞馬孫河	Amazon River
亞馬遜	Amazon
亞馬遜河	Amazon River
亞麻	flax
亞麻仁	flaxseed; linseed
亞麻布	linen
亞麻籽	flaxseed; linseed
亞麻酸	linolenic acid
亞齊	Aceh province of Indonesia in northwest Sumatra
亞齊省	Aceh province of Indonesia in northwest Sumatra
亞龍灣	Yalong Bay in Sanya 三亞|三亚[San1 ya4], Hainan
亟	(literary) urgently; anxiously; earnestly
亟待	to need urgently; to need doing without delay
亟需	to urgently need; urgent need
亠	"lid" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 8)
亡	to die; to lose; to be gone
亡佚	nonextant; lost to the ages
亡兵紀念日	Memorial Day (American holiday)
亡命	to flee; to go into exile (from prison)
亡命之徒	runaway (idiom); desperate criminal; fugitive
亡國	(of a nation) to be destroyed; to be subjugated; a fallen nation
亡國奴	slave of a foreign conqueror
亡國滅種	country destroyed, its people annihilated (idiom); total destruction
亡國虜	subjugated people; refugee from a destroyed country
亡妻	one's late wife
亡故	to die; to pass away
亡母	deceased mother
亡羊補牢	lit. to mend the pen after sheep are lost (idiom)
亡者	the deceased
亡靈	spirit of the dead; departed soul
亡魂	soul of the deceased; departed spirit
亢	surname Kang; Kang, one of the 28 constellations
亢奮	excited; stimulated
亢旱	severe drought (literary)
亢直	upright and unyielding (literary)
亢進	hyperfunction (medical)
交	to hand over; to deliver; to pay (money); to turn over
交九	the coldest period of the year
交互	mutual; interactive; each other
交付	to hand over; to deliver
交代	to transfer (duties to sb else)
交併	occurring simultaneously
交保	to post bail; bail
交保釋放	to release sb on bail
交兵	in a state of war
交出	to hand over
交割	delivery (commerce)
交加	(of two or more things) to occur at the same time; to be mingled; to accompany each other
交匯	to flow together; confluence (of rivers, airflow, roads)
交匯處	confluence (of two rivers); junction (of roads)
交卷	to hand in one's examination script
交卸	to hand over to a successor; to relinquish one's office
交叉	to cross; to intersect; to overlap
交叉口	(road) intersection
交叉學科	interdisciplinary; interdisciplinary subject (in science)
交叉引用	cross-reference (in a document, index etc)
交叉感染	cross-infection
交叉火力	crossfire
交叉熵	cross entropy (information theory)
交叉編譯器	(computing) cross-compiler
交叉耐藥性	cross-tolerance
交叉運球	crossover dribble (basketball)
交叉陰影線	hatched lines; cross-hatched graphic pattern
交叉點	junction; crossroads; (geometry) point of intersection
交友	to make friends
交口稱譽	voices unanimous in praise (idiom); with an extensive public reputation
交口縣	Jiaokou, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
交合	to join; to meet; to copulate; sexual intercourse
交售	(of a farmer) to sell one's produce to the state as stipulated by government policy
交困	beset with difficulties
交城縣	Jiaocheng, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
交大	Jiaotong University; University of Communications
交契	friendship
交好	to be on friendly terms
交媾	to have sex; to copulate
交安	road traffic safety (abbr. for 交通安全)
交尾	to copulate (of animals); to mate
交差	to report back after completion of one's mission
交帳	to settle accounts
交底	to fill sb in (on the details of sth)
交強險	compulsory vehicle insurance (abbr. for 機動車交通事故責任強制保險|机动车交通事故责任强制保险[ji1 dong4 che1 jiao1 tong1 shi4 gu4 ze2 ren4 qiang2 zhi4 bao3 xian3])
交彙	to flow together; confluence (of rivers, airflow, roads)
交往	to associate (with); to have contact (with); to hang out (with)
交心	to open one's heart; to have a heart-to-heart conversation
交情	friendship; friendly relations
交情匪淺	to be very close; to understand each other
交惡	to become enemies; to become hostile towards each other
交感神經	sympathetic nervous system
交戰	to fight; to wage war
交手	to fight hand to hand
交托	to entrust
交拜	to bow to one another; to kneel and kowtow to one another
交接	(of two things) to come into contact; to meet; to hand over to
交接班	to change shift
交換	to exchange; to swap; to switch (telecom)
交換代數	(math.) commutative algebra
交換代數學	(math.) commutative algebra
交換以太網絡	switched Ethernet
交換價值	exchange value
交換器	(telecom or network) switch
交換律	(math.) commutative property
交換機	switch (telecommunications)
交換生	exchange student
交換碼	interchange code; computer coding for characters, including Chinese
交換網路	switched network
交換虛電路	Switched Virtual Circuit; SVC
交易	to deal; to trade; to transact; transaction; deal
交易員	dealer; trader
交易市場	exchange; trading floor
交易所	exchange; stock exchange
交易所交易基金	exchange-traded fund (ETF)
交易日	(finance) trading day
交易會	trade fair
交易者	dealer
交易額	sum or volume of business transactions; turnover
交替	to replace; alternately; in turn
交會	to encounter; to rendezvous; to converge
交朋友	to make friends; (dialect) to start an affair with sb
交杯酒	formal exchange of cups of wine between bride and groom as traditional wedding ceremony
交椅	old-style wooden folding armchair, typically featuring a footrest
交款單	payment slip
交歡	to have cordial relations with each other; to have sexual intercourse
交流	to exchange; exchange; communication
交流道	(Tw) highway interchange; (fig.) channel of communication
交流電	alternating current
交涉	to negotiate (with); to have dealings (with)
交淺言深	(idiom) to talk intimately while being comparative strangers
交火	to exchange fire; to engage in a firefight
交班	to hand over to the next workshift
交由	to hand over (responsibility for sth) to (sb)
交界	common boundary; common border
交睫	to close one's eyes (i.e. sleep)
交管	traffic control
交管所	DMV (department of motor vehicles) (abbr. for 公安局交通管理局車輛管理所|公安局交通管理局车辆管理所)
交糧本	to hand in one's ration cards; to die
交納	to pay (taxes or dues)
交結	to associate with; to mix with; to connect
交給	to give; to deliver; to hand over
交織	to interweave
交纏	to intertwine; to intermingle
交臂	linking arms; arm in arm; very close
交臂失之	to miss sb by a narrow chance; to miss an opportunity
交與	to hand over
交融	to blend; to mix
交規	traffic rules (abbr. for 交通規則|交通规则[jiao1 tong1 gui1 ze2])
交角	(math.) angle of intersection
交誼	association; communion; friendship
交誼舞	social dance; ballroom dancing
交談	to discuss; to converse; chat; discussion
交警	traffic police (abbr. for 交通警察[jiao1 tong1 jing3 cha2])
交變	half-period of a wave motion; alternation
交變電流	alternating current (electricity)
交貨	to deliver goods
交貨期	delivery time (time between ordering goods and receiving the delivery)
交費	to pay a fee
交趾	former southernmost province of the Chinese Empire, now northern Vietnam
交辦	to assign (a task to sb)
交迫	to be beleaguered
交通	to be connected; traffic; transportation
交通協管員	traffic warden
交通卡	public transportation card; prepaid transit card; subway pass
交通堵塞	road congestion; traffic jam
交通大學	abbr. for 上海交通大學|上海交通大学 Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 西安交通大學|西安交通大学 Xia'an Jiaotong University, 國立交通大學|国立交通大学 National Chiao Tung University (Taiwan) etc
交通工具	means of transportation; vehicle
交通意外	traffic accident; car crash
交通擁擠	traffic congestion
交通標誌	traffic sign
交通樞紐	traffic hub
交通燈	traffic light
交通立體化	grade separation (civil engineering)
交通管理局	department of transport
交通肇事罪	culpable driving causing serious damage or injury
交通規則	traffic rules; rules of the road
交通警察	traffic police
交通警衛	road traffic policing
交通費	transport costs
交通車	shuttle bus (typically provided for employees or students by a company or school)
交通運輸部	PRC Ministry of Transport (MOT)
交通部	Department of Transportation; (PRC) Ministry of Transport
交通銀行	Bank of Communications
交通錐	traffic cone; road cone
交通阻塞	traffic jam
交遊	to have friendly relationships; circle of friends
交運	to meet with luck; to hand over for transportation
交還	to return sth; to hand back
交配	mating; copulation (esp. of animals)
交鋒	to cross swords; to have a confrontation (with sb)
交錢	to pay up; to shell out; to hand over the money to cover sth
交錯	to crisscross; to intertwine
交際	communication; social intercourse
交際舞	social dance; ballroom dance
交際花	(female) social butterfly; socialite; courtesan
交集	(of diverse emotions) to occur simultaneously; to intermingle
交響	symphony, symphonic
交響曲	symphony
交響樂	symphony
交響樂團	symphony orchestra
交響樂隊	symphony orchestra
交響金屬	symphonic metal (pop music); heavy metal with symphonic pretensions
交頭接耳	to whisper to one another's ear
交馳	continuously circling one another; to buzz around
交骨	pubic bone
交點	meeting point; point of intersection
亥	12th earthly branch: 9-11 p.m., 10th solar month (7th November-6th December), year of the Boar
亥時	9-11 pm (in the system of two-hour subdivisions used in former times)
亥豬	Year 12, year of the Boar (e.g. 2007)
亦	also
亦作	also written as
亦即	namely; that is
亦或	or
亦敵亦友	(idiom) to be both friend and foe to each other; to have a friendly rivalry
亦步亦趨	to blindly follow suit (idiom); to imitate slavishly
亦稱	also known as; alternative name; to also be called
亦莊	Yizhuang town in Beijing municipality
亨	prosperous; henry (unit of inductance)
亨丁頓舞蹈症	Huntington's disease
亨利	Henry (name); henry (unit of inductance)
亨利·哈德遜	Henry Hudson (?-1611?), English explorer and navigator
亨利五世	Henry V (1387-1422), English warrior king, victor of Agincourt
亨廷頓舞蹈症	Huntington's disease
亨德爾	George Frideric Handel (1685–1759), German-born British composer
亨格洛	Hengelo, city in the Netherlands
亨氏	Heinz (name); Heinz, US food processing company
亨特	Hunter (name)
亨祚	to prosper; to flourish
亨通	to go smoothly; prosperous; going well
享	to enjoy; to benefit; to have the use of
享受	to enjoy; to live it up; pleasure
享名	to enjoy a reputation
享國	to reign
享年	to live to the (ripe) age of
享有	to enjoy (rights, privileges etc)
享樂	to indulge oneself
享樂主義	hedonism
享樂主義者	hedonist
享清福	to live in ease and comfort
享用	to enjoy (i.e. have the use or benefit of)
享福	to live comfortably; to enjoy a happy life
享譽	to be renowned
京	surname Jing; short name for Beijing 北京[Bei3 jing1]
京九鐵路	JingJiu (Beijing-Kowloon) railway
京二胡	jing'erhu, a two-stringed fiddle intermediate in size and pitch between the jinghu 京胡 and erhu 二胡, used to accompany Chinese opera
京兆	capital of a country
京劇	Beijing opera
京口區	Jingkou, a district of Zhenjiang City 鎮江市|镇江市[Zhen4 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangsu
京味	Beijing flavor; Beijing style
京哈	(bound form) Beijing-Harbin (used in route names)
京城	capital of a country
京報	Peking Gazette (official government bulletin)
京山市	Jingshan, a county-level city in Jingmen City 荊門市|荆门市[Jing1 men2 Shi4], Hubei
京巴狗	Pekingese (dog breed)
京師	capital of a country (literary)
京廣	Beijing and Guangdong
京廣鐵路	Jing-Guang (Beijing-Guangzhou) Railway
京戲	Beijing opera
京斯敦	Kingstown, capital of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
京族	Gin or Jing, ethnic minority of China, descendants of ethnic Vietnamese people living mainly in Guangxi
京杭大運河	the Grand Canal, 1800 km from Beijing to Hangzhou, built starting from 486 BC
京杭運河	the Grand Canal, 1800 km from Beijing to Hangzhou, built starting from 486 BC
京東	Jingdong, Chinese e-commerce company
京津	Beijing and Tianjin
京津冀	Jing-Jin-Ji (Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei Province)
京滬	Beijing and Shanghai
京滬高鐵	Beijing-Shanghai High-Speed Railway, completed in 2010
京片子	Beijing dialect
京畿	Gyeonggi Province, South Korea, surrounding Seoul and Incheon, capital Suweon City 水原市[Shui3 yuan2 shi4]
京畿道	Gyeonggi Province, South Korea, surrounding Seoul and Incheon, capital Suweon City 水原市[Shui3 yuan2 shi4]
京胡	jinghu, a smaller, higher-pitched erhu 二胡 (two-stringed fiddle) used to accompany Chinese opera
京華時報	Beijing Times, a Chinese-language daily newspaper based in Beijing, published by People's Daily 2001–2017
京郊	suburbs of Beijing
京郊日報	Beijing Suburbs Daily, newspaper in operation 1980-2018
京都	capital (of a country)
京都府	Kyoto (prefecture in Japan)
京都念慈菴	King-to Nin Jiom, or just Nin Jiom, manufacturer of 枇杷膏[pi2 pa2 gao1] cough medicine
亭	pavilion; booth; kiosk
亭亭玉立	(idiom) (of a woman) slender and elegant
亭午	(literary) noon
亭子	pavilion
亭湖區	Tinghu, a district of Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
亭臺	pavilion
亭臺樓閣	pavilions and kiosks (in Chinese gardens)
亭長	ancient official title
亭閣	pavilion
亮	bright; light; to shine; to flash; loud and clear
亮光	light; beam of light; gleam of light
亮出	to suddenly reveal; to flash (one's ID, a banknote etc)
亮堂	bright; clear
亮堂堂	very bright; well-lit
亮屏	to turn on a screen
亮底牌	to show one's hand; to lay one's cards on the table
亮度	brightness
亮彩	a bright color; sparkle; shine
亮星	bright star
亮星雲	diffuse nebula
亮晶晶	gleaming; glistening
亮氨酸	leucine (Leu), an essential amino acid
亮燈	to turn on a light; (of a light) to light up
亮相	to strike a pose (Chinese opera)
亮眼	eye-catching; striking; impressive; sighted eyes; functioning eyes
亮眼人	(term used by the blind) sighted person; person with eyesight
亮菌	Armillariella tabescens (mushroom used in trad. Chinese medicine)
亮菌甲素	armillarisin (fungal enzyme used as antibiotic)
亮藍	bright blue
亮鋥鋥	polished to a shine; shiny; glistening
亮閃閃	bright
亮飾	diamanté
亮麗	bright and beautiful
亮黃燈	(lit.) to flash the yellow light; (fig.) to give a warning sign
亮點	highlight; bright spot
亳	used in 亳州[Bo2 zhou1] (the name of a place in Anhui)
亳州市	Bozhou, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
亶	surname Dan
亹	mountain pass; defile (archaic)
亹亹	diligently; relentlessly; pressing forward
亹亹不倦	on and on; relentlessly
人	person; people
人丁	number of people in a family; population; (old) adult males
人丁興旺	(idiom) to be a flourishing family with many descendants
人不可貌相	you can't judge a person by appearance (idiom)
人不可貌相，海水不可斗量	you can't judge a person by appearance, just as you can't measure the sea with a pint pot (idiom)
人不為己，天誅地滅	Look out for yourself, or heaven and earth will combine to destroy you.
人不知鬼不覺	in absolute secrecy
人世	the world; this world; the world of the living
人世間	the secular world
人中	philtrum; infranasal depression; the "human center" acupuncture point
人中龍鳳	a giant among men (idiom)
人之初，性本善	man at birth is fundamentally good in nature (the first two lines of Three Character Classic 三字經|三字经[San1 zi4 Jing1])
人之將死，其言也善	words of a man on his deathbed always come from the heart (proverb)
人之常情	human nature (idiom); a behavior that is only natural
人事	personnel; human resources; human affairs
人事不知	to have lost consciousness
人事管理	personnel management
人事處	human resources department
人事部	personnel office; human resources (HR)
人事部門	personnel office
人云亦云	to say what everyone says (idiom)
人五人六	(idiom) to make a show of being decent and proper; to display phony or hypocritical behavior
人人	everyone; every person
人人有責	it is everyone's duty
人人皆知	known to everyone
人人網	Renren (Chinese social networking website)
人仰馬翻	to suffer a crushing defeat (idiom); in a pitiful state
人來人往	(idiom) people coming and going; bustling with activity
人來瘋	to get hyped up in front of an audience
人保	personal guarantee; to sign as guarantor
人們	people
人倫	ethical norms governing human relationships
人偶	puppet; figure
人偶戲	puppet show
人傑	outstanding talent; wise and able person; illustrious individual
人傑地靈	illustrious hero, spirit of the place (idiom); a place derives reflected glory from an illustrious son
人傳人	transmitted person-to-person
人像	likeness of a person (sketch, photo, sculpture etc)
人兒	figurine
人力	manpower; labor power
人力接龍	bucket brigade; human chain
人力資源	human resources
人力車	rickshaw
人力車夫	rickshaw puller
人勢	(human) penis (TCM)
人去樓空	(lit.) the occupants have gone and the place is now empty (idiom)
人參	ginseng
人參果	fictional fruit in the classic Chinese novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 ji4]
人叢	crowd of people
人口	population; people
人口學	demography
人口密度	population density
人口密集	densely populated
人口數	population
人口普查	census
人口稠密	populous
人口紅利	(economics) demographic dividend
人口統計學	population studies; population statistics
人口調查	census
人口販運	trafficking in persons; human trafficking
人各有所好	everyone has their likes and dislikes
人名	personal name
人命	human life
人命關天	human life is beyond value (idiom)
人品	character; moral strength; integrity
人員	staff; crew; personnel
人喊馬嘶	lit. people shouting and horses neighing (idiom); fig. tumultuous
人困馬乏	riders tired and horses weary (idiom); worn out; exhausted
人在江湖，身不由己	(proverb) you can't always do as you like; one has to compromise in this world
人均	per capita; averaged per person
人士	person; figure; public figure
人壽	human lifespan
人壽保險	life insurance
人壽年豐	long-lived people, rich harvests (idiom); stable and affluent society
人外有人，天外有天	in the wider world there are people more talented than oneself (idiom)
人多勢眾	many men, a great force (idiom); many hands provide great strength
人大	people's congress, a legislative body within the PRC's system of government at any of various levels – national, provincial, municipal, county or township (abbr. for 人民代表大會|人民代表大会[ren2 min2 dai4 biao3 da4 hui4])
人夫	married man; husband (as a social role)
人如其名	(idiom) to live up to one's name; true to one's name
人妖	transvestite; transsexual; ladyboy
人妻	married woman; wife (as a social role)
人子	son of man
人孔	manhole
人字形	V-shape; chevron; herringbone
人字拖	flip-flops (abbr. for 人字拖鞋[ren2 zi4 tuo1 xie2])
人字拖鞋	flip-flops; flip-flop sandals; thongs
人字洞	Renzidong palaeolithic archaeological site at Fanchang 繁昌[Fan2 chang1], Anhui
人定	middle of the night; the dead of night
人定勝天	man can conquer nature (idiom); human wisdom can prevail over nature
人家	other people; sb else; he, she or they
人寰	world; earthly world
人尖兒	outstanding individual; person of great ability
人居	human habitat
人山人海	(idiom) multitude; vast crowd
人工	artificial; manpower; manual work
人工受孕	artificial insemination
人工吹氣	to inflate using one's breath; (in CPR) to give a rescue breath
人工呼吸	artificial respiration (medicine)
人工島	artificial island
人工授精	artificial insemination
人工智慧	(Tw) artificial intelligence
人工智能	artificial intelligence (AI)
人工林	planted forest
人工概念	artificial concept
人工河	canal; man-made waterway
人工流產	abortion
人工湖	artificial lake
人工耳蝸	cochlear implant
人工費	labor cost
人師	mentor; role model
人形	human form; human-shaped; humanoid
人影	the shadow of a human figure
人往高處走，水往低處流	man seeks his way up just as water seeks its way down (idiom)
人從	retinue; hangers-on
人從眾𠈌	(Internet slang) huge crowds of people (emphatic form of 人[ren2])
人微言輕	(idiom) what lowly people think counts for little
人心	popular feeling; the will of the people
人心不古	(idiom) moral standards are much lower now than in former times
人心不足蛇吞象	a man who is never content is like a snake trying to swallow an elephant (idiom)
人心惶惶	(idiom) everyone is anxious; (of a group of people) to feel anxious
人心所向	that which is yearned for by the public
人心果	sapodilla, a tropical fruit bearing tree
人心渙散	(of a nation, government etc) demoralized; disunited
人心隔肚皮	there is no knowing what is in a man's heart (idiom)
人心難測	hard to fathom a person's mind (idiom)
人怕出名豬怕壯	lit. people fear getting famous like pigs fear fattening up (for the slaughter)
人性	human nature; humanity; human
人性化	(of a system or product etc) adapted to human needs; people-oriented
人情	human emotions; social relationship; friendship; favor; a good turn
人情世故	worldly wisdom; the ways of the world
人情債	debt of gratitude
人情味	human warmth; friendliness; human touch
人意	people's expectations
人憎狗厭	detestable (wordplay based on 神憎鬼厭|神憎鬼厌[shen2 zeng1 gui3 yan4])
人所共知	something that everybody knows
人手	manpower; staff; human hand
人才	talent; talented person; looks
人才外流	brain drain
人才流失	brain drain; outflow of talent
人才濟濟	a galaxy of talent (idiom); a great number of competent people
人效	human resource efficiency (abbr. for 人力資源效能|人力资源效能[ren2 li4 zi1 yuan2 xiao4 neng2])
人數	number of people
人文	humanities; culture; humanistic
人文主義	humanism
人文地理學	human geography
人文學	humanities
人文景觀	place of cultural interest
人文社會學科	humanities and social sciences
人文社科	(abbr.) humanities and social sciences
人族	Hominini
人是鐵飯是鋼	one can't function properly on an empty stomach (idiom)
人智學	anthroposophy
人有三急	(jocular) to need to answer the call of nature
人有失手，馬有失蹄	lit. just as humans make mistakes, so can a horse stumble (idiom)
人望	prestige; esteem
人格	personality; integrity; dignity
人格化	to personalize; anthropomorphism
人格神	personal god
人格魅力	personal charm; charisma
人梯	human ladder (formed to help sb climb a wall etc); (fig.) person who sacrifices himself for others' success
人模狗樣	(idiom) to pose; to put on airs; Taiwan pr. [ren2 mo2 gou3 yang4]
人機工程	ergonomics; man-machine engineering
人機界面	user interface
人權	human rights
人權法	Human Rights law (Hong Kong)
人權觀察	Human Rights Watch (HRW), New York-based non-governmental organization
人權鬥士	a human rights activist; a fighter for human rights
人次	person-times; visits; classifier for number of people participating
人武	armed forces
人母	mother (as a social role)
人比人，氣死人	(proverb) constantly comparing oneself to others only leads to dissatisfaction and envy
人氏	native; person from a particular place
人民	the people
人民代表	deputy to the People's Congress
人民內部矛盾	internal contradiction among the people (pretext for a purge)
人民公敵	the enemy of the people; the class enemy (Marxism)
人民公社	people's commune
人民公社化	collectivization of agriculture (disastrous policy of communist Russia around 1930 and China in the 1950s)
人民團體	people's organization (e.g. labor unions, peasant associations, scholarly associations etc)
人民大會堂	the Great Hall of the People (in Beijing)
人民幣	Renminbi, the official currency of the PRC (currency codes: RMB or CNY)
人民幣元	renminbi yuan (RMB), PRC currency unit
人民戰爭	people's war, military strategy advocated by Mao whereby a large number of ordinary citizens provide support in a campaign
人民政府	people's government
人民日報	People's Daily (PRC newspaper)
人民民主專政	people's democratic dictatorship
人民法院	people's court (of law); people's tribunal
人民網	online version of the People's Daily, 人民日報|人民日报[Ren2 min2 Ri4 bao4]
人民英雄紀念碑	Monument to the People's Heroes, at Tiananmen Square
人民行動黨	People's Action Party (ruling party in Singapore)
人民解放軍	People's Liberation Army
人民警察	civil police; PRC police
人民銀行	People's Bank of China
人民陣線	(politics) popular front
人民黨	People's party (of various countries)
人氣	popularity; presence of people; liveliness
人治	rule of man
人流	stream of people; abortion; abbr. for 人工流產|人工流产[ren2 gong1 liu2 chan3]
人流手術	an abortion; abbr. of 人工流產手術|人工流产手术
人浮於事	more hands than needed (idiom); too many cooks spoil the broth
人海	a multitude; a sea of people
人海戰術	(military) human wave attack
人渣	dregs of society; scum
人滿為患	packed with people; overcrowded; overpopulation
人潮	a tide of people
人為	artificial; man-made; having human cause or origin
人為刀俎，我為魚肉	(lit.) to be the meat on sb's chopping block (idiom)
人為土	anthrosol (soil taxonomy)
人為財死，鳥為食亡	lit. human beings will die for riches, just as birds will for food (idiom)
人無完人	nobody is perfect; everyone has their defect
人無橫財不富，馬無夜草不肥	(saying) a person cannot become wealthy without windfall profits (or ill-gotten gains etc), just as a horse cannot get fat without night feed
人無遠慮，必有近憂	He who gives no thought to far-flung problems soon finds suffering nearby (idiom, from Analects).
人煙	sign of human habitation
人煙稀少	no sign of human habitation (idiom); desolate
人煙稠密	(idiom) densely populated
人父	father (as a social role)
人牆	human barricade; (soccer) defensive wall
人物	person; personage; figure (esp. sb of importance)
人物描寫	portrayal
人犯	criminal; culprit; suspect (old)
人猿	anthropoid ape
人球	person who is passed back and forth, with nobody willing to look after them (e.g. a child of divorced parents)
人琴俱亡	person and lute have both vanished (idiom); death of a close friend
人瑞	very old person; venerable old person
人生	life (one's time on earth)
人生一世，草木一春	Man has but one life, grass but one spring (idiom). fig. the brevity of human existence
人生何處不相逢	it's a small world (idiom)
人生地不熟	to be a stranger in a strange land (idiom)
人生如夢	life is but a dream (idiom)
人生如朝露	human life as the morning dew (idiom); fig. ephemeral and precarious nature of human existence
人生導師	life mentor
人生朝露	human life as the morning dew (idiom); fig. ephemeral and precarious nature of human existence
人生路不熟	everything is unfamiliar
人畜共患症	zoonosis
人皇	Human Sovereign, one of the three legendary sovereigns 三皇[san1 huang2]
人盡其才	employ one's talent to the fullest; everyone gives of their best
人盡可夫	(idiom) (of a woman) promiscuous; loose
人相	physiognomy
人相學	physiognomy (judgment of a person's fate, character etc, based on facial features)
人盾	human shield
人礦	(neologism, attested by 2023) (slang) the Chinese people, seen as a resource that is exploited for its value to the nation
人社部	Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security (PRC)
人禍	man-made disaster
人種	race (of people)
人稱	(grammar) person (first person etc); called; known as
人稱代詞	personal pronoun
人窮志不窮	(idiom) poor but with great ambitions; poor but principled
人窮志短	poor and with low expectations; poverty stunts ambition
人算不如天算	man proposes, God disposes (idiom)
人精	sophisticate; man with extensive experience; child prodigy
人給家足	lit. each household provided for, enough for the individual (idiom); comfortably off
人緣	the quality of one's relationships with other people (e.g. 人緣好|人缘好[ren2 yuan2 hao3] "to be well liked")
人緣兒	erhua form of 人緣|人缘[ren2 yuan2]
人群	crowd
人群管理特別用途車	specialized crowd management vehicle, a riot control vehicle equipped with a water cannon, commonly known as water cannon vehicle 水炮車|水炮车[shui3 pao4 che1]
人老珠黃	(of a woman) old and faded
人聲鼎沸	lit. a boiling cauldron of voices (idiom); hubbub; brouhaha
人肉	to crowdsource information about sb or sth (typically as a form of vigilantism resulting in doxing) (abbr. for 人肉搜索[ren2 rou4 sou1 suo3])
人肉搜索	to crowdsource information about sb or sth (typically as a form of vigilantism resulting in doxing)
人肉搜索引擎	(neologism, attested by 2003) human flesh search engine; crowdsourced online search for information about a person or event, typically resulting in doxing (now largely replaced by the clipped form 人肉搜索[ren2 rou4 sou1 suo3])
人肉沙包	human punching bag
人脈	contacts; connections; network
人臉識別	(computing) facial recognition; (cognitive pyschology) face perception
人臣	an official (in former times)
人艱不拆	life is hard enough as it is; don't burst my bubble (Internet slang)
人蛇	illegal immigrant (esp. one smuggled across borders)
人蛇集團	human smuggling syndicate; snakehead gang
人行	People's Bank of China (abbr. for 中國人民銀行|中国人民银行[Zhong1 guo2 Ren2 min2 Yin2 hang2])
人行區	pedestrian precinct
人行地下通道	pedestrian underpass
人行橫道	crosswalk; pedestrian crossing
人行橫道線	crosswalk; pedestrian crossing with zebra stripes
人行道	sidewalk
人見人愛	loved by all; to have universal appeal
人言可畏	gossip is a fearful thing (idiom)
人言嘖嘖	everyone comments disapprovingly (idiom)
人言籍籍	tongues are wagging (idiom)
人設	character design (in games, manga etc) (abbr. for 人物設定|人物设定[ren2 wu4 she4 ding4])
人誰無過	Everyone makes mistakes (idiom)
人證	witness testimony
人證物證	human testimony and material evidence
人財兩得	to succeed in both love and business
人財兩旺	thriving; (of a city) populous and wealthy; (of a family) large and prosperous
人財兩空	(idiom) to suffer the departure of sb (talented staff or one's spouse etc) and a financial loss as well; to get burned both romantically and financially
人販子	human trafficker
人資	abbr. of 人力資源|人力资源[ren2 li4 zi1 yuan2]
人質	hostage
人贓俱獲	(of a thief, smuggler etc) to be caught with stolen or illegal goods
人走茶涼	lit. when people leave, the tea cools (idiom)
人跡罕至	lit. men's footprints are rare (idiom); fig. off the beaten track
人身	person; personal; human body
人身事故	accident causing injury or death
人身安全	personal safety
人身攻擊	personal attack
人身權	one's personal rights
人車混行	pedestrian-vehicle mixed use
人造	man-made; artificial; synthetic
人造天體	artificial satellite
人造奶油	margarine
人造牛油	margarine
人造絲	rayon
人造纖維	man-made fiber
人造衛星	artificial satellite
人造語言	artificial language; constructed language; conlang
人造革	artificial leather
人造黃油	margarine
人道	human sympathy; humanitarianism; humane
人道主義	humanism; humanitarian (aid)
人道救援	humanitarian aid
人選	choice of person; candidate
人鏈	human chain
人間	the human world; the earth
人間佛教	Humanistic Buddhism
人間喜劇	La Comédie humaine, series of novels by 19th century French novelist Honoré de Balzac 巴爾扎克|巴尔扎克[Ba1 er3 zha1 ke4]
人間地獄	hell on earth (idiom); suffering the torments of Buddhist hell while still alive
人間天堂	heaven on Earth; nickname for the city Suzhou
人間清醒	(neologism c. 2021) to keep one's senses; not get carried away; not let success go to one's head
人間蒸發	to vanish; to disappear from the face of the earth
人防	civil air defence (abbr. for 人民防空[ren2 min2 fang2 kong1])
人際	human relationships; interpersonal
人際關係	interpersonal relationship
人非生而知之者，孰能無惑	Knowledge is not innate to man, how can we overcome doubt?
人面獸心	(lit.) human face, beastly heart (idiom)
人頭	person; number of people; (per) capita
人頭熟	to know a lot of people
人頭獅身	sphinx
人頭稅	poll tax
人頭馬	Rémy Martin cognac
人類	humanity; human race; mankind
人類乳突病毒	human papillomavirus (HPV)
人類免疫缺陷病毒	human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
人類基因組計劃	Human Genome Project
人類學	anthropology
人類學家	anthropologist
人類起源	origin of mankind
人馬	men and horses; troops; group of people
人馬座	Sagittarius (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
人馬臂	Sagittarius spiral arm (of our galaxy)
人體	human body
人體器官	human organ
人體工學	ergonomics
人體工學椅	ergonomic chair
人體工程學	ergonomics
人體解剖	human anatomy
人體解剖學	human anatomy
人高馬大	tall and strong
人魚	mermaid; dugong; sea cow
人龍	a queue of people
亻	"person" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 9)
什	ten (used in fractions, writing checks etc); assorted; miscellaneous
什一奉獻	tithing
什剎海	Shichahai, scenic area of northwest Beijing with three lakes
什器	various kinds of everyday utensils
什菜	mixed vegetables
什葉	Shia (a movement in Islam)
什葉派	Shia sect (of Islam)
什邡市	Shifang, a county-level city in Deyang City 德陽市|德阳市[De2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
什錦	(food) assorted; mixed; assortment
什錦果盤	mixed fruit salad
什麼	what?; something; anything
什麼事	What's up?; Is something the matter?
什麼人	who?; what (kind of) person?
什麼地方	somewhere; someplace; where
什麼好說	sth pertinent to say
什麼時候	when?; at what time?
什麼樣	what kind?; what sort?
什麼的	and so on; and so forth; and what not
什麼風把你吹來的	What brings you here? (idiom)
什麼鬼	(coll.) what the hell?; what on earth? (expression of confusion, disbelief or annoyance)
仁	humane; kernel
仁丹	Jintan mouth refresher lozenge, produced by Morishita Jintan company from 1905
仁人君子	people of good will (idiom); charitable person
仁人志士	gentleman aspiring to benevolence (idiom); people with lofty ideals
仁人義士	those with lofty ideals (idiom); men of vision
仁兄	(honorific written address) My dear friend
仁化縣	Renhua, a county in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
仁厚	kindhearted; tolerant; honest and generous
仁和區	Renhe, a district of Panzhihua City 攀枝花市[Pan1 zhi1 hua1 Shi4], Sichuan
仁和縣	Renhe county in Zhejiang
仁壽縣	Renshou, a county in Meishan City 眉山市[Mei2 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
仁川	Incheon, a city in South Korea
仁布縣	Rinbung, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
仁弟	(honorific written address to younger man) My dear young friend
仁德	benevolent integrity; high mindedness
仁心仁術	benevolent heart and skillful execution (idiom, from Mencius); charitable in thought and deed
仁惠	benevolent; merciful; humane
仁愛	benevolence; charity; compassion
仁愛區	Ren'ai or Jenai District of Keelung City 基隆市[Ji1 long2 Shi4], Taiwan
仁慈	benevolent; charitable; kind
仁懷市	Renhuai, a county-level city in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
仁懷縣	Renhuai county in Zunyi prefecture 遵義|遵义, Guizhou
仁政	benevolent policy; humane government
仁民愛物	love to all creatures (idiom, from Mencius); universal benevolence
仁波切	Rinpoche (Tibetan honorific)
仁義	benevolence and righteousness
仁義道德	compassion, duty, propriety and integrity (idiom); all the traditional virtues
仁者見仁，智者見智	The benevolent sees benevolence, the wise sees wisdom.
仁至義盡	extreme benevolence, utmost duty (idiom); meticulous virtue and attention to duty
仁術	kindness; benevolence; to govern in humanitarian way
仁言利博	Words of benevolence apply universally (idiom). Humanitarian expressions benefit all.
仂	surplus; tithe
仂語	phrase (linguistics)
仃	used in 伶仃[ling2 ding1]
仄	to tilt; narrow; uneasy
仄徑	narrow path
仄聲	oblique tone; nonlevel tone
仆	to fall forward; to fall prostrate
仇	hatred; animosity; enmity
仇人	foe; one's personal enemy
仇人相見，分外眼紅	when the enemies come face to face, their eyes blaze with hatred (idiom)
仇外	to feel animosity toward foreigners or outsiders; xenophobia
仇外心理	xenophobia
仇家	enemy; foe
仇富	to hate the rich
仇怨	hatred and desire for revenge
仇恨	to hate; hatred; enmity
仇恨罪	hate crime
仇恨罪行	hate crime
仇敵	enemy
仇殺	to kill in revenge
仇視	to view sb as an enemy; to be hateful towards
仇讎	(literary) enemy; foe
仇隙	feud; bitter quarrel
仈	surname Ba
仉	surname Zhang
今	now; the present time; current
今不如昔	things are not as good as they used to be
今世	this life; this age
今井	Imai (Japanese surname)
今人	modern people
今兒	(coll.) today
今兒個	(coll.) today
今古文	Former Han dynasty study or rewriting of classical texts such as the Confucian six classics 六經|六经[Liu4 jing1]
今夜	tonight; this evening
今天	today; the present time; now
今宵	(literary) tonight
今年	this year
今後	hereafter; henceforth; in the future
今文經	Former Han dynasty school of Confucian scholars
今文經學	Former Han dynasty school of Confucian scholars
今日	today
今日事今日畢	never put off until tomorrow what you can do today (idiom)
今日頭條	Toutiao, personalized content recommendation app
今早	this morning
今昔	past and present; yesterday and today
今時今日	this day and age (dialect)
今晚	tonight
今晨	this morning
今朝	(dialect) today; (literary) the present; this age
今朝有酒今朝醉	to live in the moment (idiom)
今村	Imamura (Japanese surname)
今次	this; the present (meeting etc); this time; this once
今歲	(literary) this year
今生	this lifetime
今譯	modern language version; modern translation; contemporary translation
今非昔比	(idiom) things are very different now; times have changed
今音	modern (i.e. not ancient) pronunciation of a Chinese character
今體詩	same as 近體詩|近体诗[jin4 ti3 shi1]
介	to introduce; to lie between; between
介之推	Jie Zhitui (7th century BC), legendary selfless subject of Duke Wen of Jin 晉文公|晋文公[Jin4 Wen2 gong1], in whose honor the Qingming festival 清明[Qing1 ming2] (Pure brightness or tomb-sweeping festival) is said to have been initiated
介乎	to lie between
介休市	Jiexiu, a county-level city in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
介係詞	(Tw) preposition
介值定理	intermediate value theorem (math.)
介入	to intervene; to get involved
介子	meson; mesotron (physics)
介導	(biology) to mediate
介意	to care about; to take offense; to mind
介懷	to mind; to brood over; to be concerned about
介於	between; intermediate; to lie between
介殼	(zoology) shell
介紹	to introduce (sb to sb); to give a presentation
介紹信	letter of introduction; recommendation letter; reference
介胄	armor
介詞	preposition
介質	medium; media
介質訪問控制	Medium Access Control; MAC
介質訪問控制層	(computing) media access control layer (MAC layer)
介電常數	dielectric constant
介面	(Tw) interface (computing)
仍	still; yet; to remain; (literary) frequently; often
仍然	still; as before; yet
仍舊	still (remaining); to remain (the same); yet
仔	(bound form) (of domestic animals or fowl) young
仔密	(textiles) closely woven; tightly knitted
仔畜	newborn animal
仔細	careful; attentive; cautious; to be careful; to look out
仔肩	to bear responsibility for sth
仔薑	stem ginger
仔豬	piglet
仔雞	chick; baby chicken
仕	to serve as an official; an official
仕女	court lady; palace maid; traditional painting of beautiful women
仕宦	(literary) to serve as an official
仕途	official career (formal)
他	(third-person singular) (since the early 20th century, usu. male) he; him; his
他人	another person; sb else; other people
他信	Thaksin Shinawatra (1949-), Thai businessman and politician, prime minister 2001-2006
他們	they; them
他加祿語	Tagalog (language)
他喵的	drat; frick; (euphemistic variant of 他媽的|他妈的[ta1 ma1 de5])
他國	another country
他娘的	same as 他媽的|他妈的[ta1 ma1 de5]
他媽的	(taboo curse) damn it!; fucking
他山之石可以攻玉	lit. the other mountain's stone can polish jade (idiom); to improve oneself by accepting criticism from outside
他律	external regulation (e.g. by means of a regulatory body, as opposed to self-regulation 自律[zi4 lu:4])
他性	otherness
他日	(literary) some day; (literary) days in the past
他殺	homicide (law)
他用	other use; other purpose
他者	others; (sociology, philosophy) the Other
他者化	othering; otherization
他者性	otherness
他遷	to relocate; to move elsewhere
他鄉	foreign land; away from one's native place
他鄉遇故知	meeting an old friend in a foreign place (idiom)
仗	weaponry; to hold (a weapon); to wield
仗勢	to rely on power
仗勢欺人	to take advantage of one's position to bully people (idiom)
仗恃	to rely on; to depend on
仗火	battle
仗義	to uphold justice; to be loyal (to one's friends); to stick by
仗義執言	to speak out for justice (idiom); to take a stand on a matter of principle
仗義疏財	to help the needy for justice (idiom); to be loyal to one's friends and generous to the needy
仗腰	to back sb up; to support (from the rear)
付	to pay; to hand over to; classifier for pairs or sets of things
付之一嘆	to dismiss with a sigh (idiom); a hopeless case
付之一炬	to put to the torch (idiom); to commit to the flames
付之一笑	(idiom) to dismiss sth with a laugh; to laugh it off
付之丙丁	to burn down (idiom)
付之度外	to think nothing of doing sth (idiom)
付之東流	to commit to the waters (idiom); to lose sth irrevocably
付之行動	to put into action; to transform into acts
付出	to pay; to expend; to invest (energy or time)
付印	to go to press; to submit for printing
付托	to entrust to
付方	credit side (of a balance sheet), as opposed to 收方[shou1 fang1]
付梓	(literary) to send (a manuscript) to the press
付款	to pay a sum of money; payment
付款方式	terms of payment; payment method
付款條件	terms of payment
付清	to pay in full; to pay all of a bill; to pay off
付現	to pay in cash
付給	to deliver; to pay
付訖	paid
付諸	to apply to; to put into (practice etc)
付諸實施	to put into practice; to carry out (idiom)
付諸東流	wasted effort
付費	to pay; to cover the costs
付費牆	(computing) paywall (loanword)
付賬	to settle an account
付錢	to pay
仙	immortal
仙丹	elixir; magic potion
仙人	Daoist immortal; celestial being
仙人掌	cactus
仙人掌果	prickly pear
仙人掌桿菌	(microbiology) Bacillus cereus
仙人球	ball cactus
仙人跳	confidence trick in which a man is lured by an attractive woman
仙俠	(fiction genre) xianxia; Chinese fantasy featuring immortals, spiritual cultivation 修仙[xiu1 xian1], and other supernatural elements
仙八色鶇	(bird species of China) fairy pitta (Pitta nympha)
仙去	to become an immortal; (fig.) to die
仙台	Sendai, city in northeast Japan
仙后座	Cassiopeia (constellation)
仙境	fairyland; wonderland; paradise
仙女	fairy
仙女座	Andromeda (constellation)
仙女座大星雲	great nebula in Andromeda or Andromeda galaxy M31
仙女座星系	Andromeda galaxy M31
仙女星座	Andromeda constellation (galaxy) M31
仙女星系	Andromeda galaxy M31
仙女棒	sparkler (handheld firework); (slang) vibrator (sex toy)
仙姑	female immortal; sorceress
仙姿玉色	heavenly beauty, jewel colors (idiom); unusually beautiful lady
仙子	fairy
仙客來	cyclamen (loanword)
仙居縣	Xianju, a county in Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
仙山	mountain of Immortals
仙山瓊閣	jeweled palace in the fairy mountain
仙島	island of the immortals
仙方	prescription of elixir; potion of immortality
仙桃	the peaches of immortality of Goddess Xi Wangmu 西王母
仙桃市	Xiantao sub-prefecture level city in Hubei
仙樂	heavenly music
仙氣	ethereal quality
仙王座	Cepheus (constellation)
仙界	world of the immortals; a fairyland; a paradise
仙童	elf; leprechaun
仙股	penny stocks
仙臺	Sendai (city in Japan)
仙茅	golden eye-grass (Curculigo orchioides)
仙草	medicinal herb (genus Mesona); grass jelly
仙藥	legendary magic potion of immortals; panacea
仙貝	(loanword) senbei (Japanese rice cracker)
仙逝	to die; to depart this mortal coil
仙遊	(literary) (euphemism) to die; to pass away
仙遊縣	Xianyou, a county in Putian City 莆田市[Pu2 tian2 Shi4], Fujian
仙鄉	fairyland; honorific: your homeland
仙鶴	red-crowned crane (Grus japonensis)
仞	unit of length used in ancient times, equal to 7 or 8 Chinese feet 尺[chi3]
仟	thousand (banker's anti-fraud numeral)
仡	used in 仡佬族[Ge1 lao3 zu2], Gelao or Klau ethnic group of Guizhou
仡佬	Gelao ethnic group
仡佬族	Gelao ethnic group
代	to be a substitute for; to act on behalf of; to replace; to substitute
代之以	(has been) replaced with; (its) place has been taken by
代人受過	to take the blame for sb else; to be made a scapegoat
代代	from generation to generation; generation after generation
代代相傳	passed on from generation to generation (idiom); to hand down
代價	price; cost; consideration (in share dealing)
代償	(medical) compensation
代入	to substitute into
代利斯	Dallys, Algerian seaport and naval base
代勞	to do sth in place of sb else
代可可脂	(loanword) cocoa butter substitute
代名詞	pronoun; synonym; byword
代填	to fill in a form for sb else
代孕	to serve as a surrogate mother; surrogacy
代孕母親	surrogate mother
代字	abbreviated name of an entity (e.g. 皖政, a short name for 安徽省人民政府)
代字號	swung dash; tilde (~)
代宗	Daizong, temple name of seventh Ming emperor Jingtai 景泰[Jing3 tai4]
代客泊車	valet parking
代寫	to write on behalf of sb else
代工	OEM (original equipment manufacturer)
代幣	token (used instead of money for slot machines, in game arcades etc)
代扣	to withhold tax (from employee's salary)
代拿買特	(loanword) dynamite
代指	to mean; to signify
代換	to substitute; to replace
代收	to receive sth on another's behalf
代收貨款	collect on delivery (COD)
代數	algebra
代數函數	(math.) algebraic function
代數函數論	algebraic function theory (math.)
代數和	algebraic sum
代數學	algebra (as branch of math.)
代數幾何	algebraic geometry
代數幾何學	algebraic geometry
代數式	(math.) algebraic expression
代數拓撲	(math.) algebraic topology
代數數域	algebraic number field (math.)
代數方程	algebraic equation
代數曲線	(math.) algebraic curve
代數曲面	algebraic surface
代數簇	algebraic variety (math.)
代數結構	algebraic structure
代數群	algebraic group (math.)
代數量	algebraic quantity
代書	to write on sb's behalf
代替	to replace; to take the place of
代替父母	in place of sb's parents; in loco parentis (law)
代替者	a substitute; a replacement
代步	to get around using a conveyance (car, bicycle, sedan chair etc); to ride (or drive)
代步車	vehicle
代母	godmother; surrogate mother
代溝	generation gap
代為	to do sth on behalf of sb else
代爾夫特	Delft, Zuid-Holland, the Netherlands
代班	(Tw) to take over sb's job; to substitute for
代理	to act on behalf of sb in a responsible position
代理人	agent
代理商	agent
代理孕母	(Tw) surrogacy; surrogate pregnancy; surrogate mother
代碼	code
代碼段	code segment
代碼頁	code page
代禱	to pray on behalf of sb
代稱	alternative name; to refer to sth by another name; antonomasia
代筆	to write on behalf of sb; to ghostwrite
代管	to administer; to manage; to hold in trust or escrow
代糖	sugar substitute
代縣	Dai County or Daixian, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
代罪	to act as a scapegoat; to take the blame for sb else
代罪羔羊	scapegoat
代考	to take a test or exam for sb
代號	code name
代行	to act as a substitute; to act on sb's behalf
代表	representative; delegate; to represent
代表人物	representative individual (of a school of thought)
代表作	representative work (of an author or artist)
代表團	delegation
代表性	representativeness; representative; typical
代表處	representative office
代表隊	delegation
代言	to be a spokesperson; to be an ambassador (for a brand); to endorse
代言人	spokesperson
代詞	pronoun
代誌	(Tw) (coll.) matter; thing (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [tāi-tsì], equivalent to Mandarin 事情[shi4 qing5])
代課	to teach as substitute for absent teacher
代謝	replacement; substitution; metabolism (biol.)
代購	to buy (on behalf of sb)
代辦	to act for sb else; to act on sb's behalf; an agent
代金券	voucher; coupon
代銷	to sell as agent; to sell on commission (e.g. insurance policies)
代銷店	outlet; commission shop; agency
代際	intergenerational; generational
代頓	Dayton (city in Ohio)
代餐	meal replacement
代駕	to drive a vehicle for its owner (often as a paid service for sb who has consumed alcohol) (abbr. for 代理駕駛|代理驾驶[dai4 li3 jia4 shi3])
令	used in 脊令[ji2 ling2]; used in 令狐[Ling2 hu2] (Taiwan pr. [ling4])
令人	to cause one (to do sth); to make one (angry, delighted etc)
令人不快	unpleasant; objectionable
令人振奮	inspiring; exciting; rousing
令人滿意	satisfying; satisfactory
令人矚目	(idiom) attention-grabbing; noteworthy
令人髮指	(idiom) to make one feel a sense of revulsion; abhorrent; heinous; deeply disturbing
令兄	Your esteemed older brother (honorific)
令吉	ringgit (Malaysian currency unit)
令名	good name; reputation
令和	Reiwa, Japanese era name, corresponding to the reign (2019-) of emperor Naruhito 德仁[De2 ren2]
令堂	(honorific) your mother
令尊	Your esteemed father (honorific)
令尊令堂	(honorific) your parents
令弟	honorable little brother
令愛	(courteous) your daughter
令慈	Your esteemed mother (honorific)
令正	(honorific) your wife
令牌	(archaic) wooden or metal token of authority; (fig.) decree; directive
令牌環	token ring
令牌環網	token ring network
令狀	writ
令狐	old place name (in present-day Linyi County 臨猗縣|临猗县[Lin2 yi1 Xian4], Shanxi)
令狐德棻	Linghu Defen (583-666), Tang dynasty historian, compiler of History of Zhou of the Northern dynasties 周書|周书
令箭	arrow banner of command (archaic used as symbol of military authority)
令節	festive season; happy time; noble principle
令行禁止	(lit.) orders are carried out and prohibitions are observed (idiom)
令親	Your esteemed parent (honorific)
令譽	honorable reputation
令郎	your esteemed son (honorific)
令閫	your wife (honorific)
以	abbr. for Israel 以色列[Yi3 se4 lie4]
以一馭萬	to control a key point is to be master of the situation (idiom)
以上	that level or higher; that amount or more; the above-mentioned
以下	that level or lower; that amount or less; the following
以下犯上	to disrespect one's superiors; to offend one's elders
以不變應萬變	(idiom) to deal with varying circumstances by adhering to a basic principle
以人名命名	to name sth after a person; named after; eponymous
以人廢言	to reject a word because of the speaker (idiom, from Analects); to judge on preference between advisers rather than the merits of the case
以人為本	people-oriented
以來	since (used after a specified time or event)
以便	so that; so as to; in order to
以假亂真	(idiom) to pass off the fake as genuine; to blur the line between fake and real so convincingly that the fake is mistaken for the real thing
以偏概全	(lit.) to take a part for the whole; to generalize
以備不測	to be prepared for accidents
以債養債	debt nurtures more debt (idiom)
以儆效尤	(idiom) to warn against following bad examples; as a warning to others
以免	in order to avoid; so as not to
以內	within; less than
以其人之道，還治其人之身	to use an opponent's own methods to obtain retribution (idiom, from Song dynasty neo-Confucianist Zhu Xi 朱熹[Zhu1 Xi1])
以利亞	Elijah (Old Testament prophet)
以利亞撒	Eleazar (son of Eluid)
以利亞敬	Eliakim (name, Hebrew: God will raise up)
以利於	for the sake of; in order to
以前	before; formerly; previous
以北	to the north of (suffix)
以南	to the south of (suffix)
以卵擊石	lit. to strike a stone with egg (idiom); to attempt the impossible
以及	and; as well as
以史為鑒	to learn from history (idiom)
以和為貴	harmony is to be prized
以埃	Israel-Egypt
以外	apart from; other than; except for
以太	(loanword) ether (hypothetical medium that transmits light waves)
以太坊	Ethereum
以太網	Ethernet
以太網絡	Ethernet
以失敗告終	to end in failure
以夷制夷	to use foreigners to subdue foreigners (idiom); let the barbarians fight it out among themselves (traditional policy of successive dynasties)
以子之矛，攻子之盾	lit. use sb's spear to attack his shield (idiom, derived from Han Feizi 韓非子|韩非子); turning a weapon against its owner
以小人之心，度君子之腹	to gauge the heart of a gentleman with one's own mean measure (idiom)
以少勝多	using the few to defeat the many (idiom); to win from a position of weakness
以工代賑	to provide work to relieve poverty
以巴	Israeli-Palestinian
以弗所	Ephesus, city of ancient Greece
以弗所書	Epistle of St Paul to the Ephesians
以弱勝強	using the weak to defeat the strong (idiom); to win from a position of weakness
以強凌弱	to use one's strength to bully the weak (idiom)
以往	in the past; formerly
以律	Eluid (son of Achim)
以後	after; later; afterwards
以德報怨	to return good for evil (idiom); to requite evil with good
以慎為鍵	to take caution as the key (idiom); to proceed very carefully
以撒	Isaac (son of Abraham)
以敘	Israel-Syria
以斯帖	Esther (name)
以斯帖記	Book of Esther
以斯拉記	Book of Ezra
以暴制暴	to use violence to curb violence
以暴易暴	to replace one tyranny by another; to use violence against violence
以期	in order to; hoping to; attempting to
以本人名	under one's own name; named after oneself
以東	to the east of (suffix)
以柔克剛	to use softness to conquer strength (idiom)
以權壓法	to abuse power to crush the law
以權謀私	to use one's position for personal gain (idiom)
以次	in the proper order; the following
以正視聽	(idiom) in order to set the record straight; to clarify matters for the public
以此	with this; thereby; thus
以此為	to regard as; to treat as
以此類推	and so on; in a similar fashion
以死明志	to demonstrate one's sincerity by dying
以毒攻毒	to cure ills with poison (TCM); to fight evil with evil
以求	in order to
以法蓮	Ephraim (city)
以淚洗面	to bathe one's face in tears (idiom)
以湯沃沸	to manage a situation badly (idiom)
以為	to think; to believe (often with the implication that the belief is mistaken – unless referring to one's own current belief)
以牙還牙	a tooth for a tooth (retaliation)
以物易物	to barter; barter
以直報怨，以德報德	to repay kindness with kindness, and repay enmity with justice (idiom, from Analects)
以眥睚殺人	to kill sb for a trifle
以眼還眼	an eye for an eye (idiom); fig. to use the enemy's methods against him
以眼還眼，以牙還牙	an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth (idiom)
以示警戒	to serve as a warning (idiom)
以禮相待	to treat sb with due respect (idiom)
以老大自居	regarding oneself as number one in terms of leadership, seniority or status
以至	down to; up to; to such an extent as to ...
以至於	down to; up to; to the extent that...
以致	with the result that
以致於	with the result that
以色列	Israel
以色列人	an Israeli; an Israelite
以華制華	use Chinese collaborators to subdue the Chinese (imperialist policy)
以藥養醫	"drugs serving to nourish doctors", perceived problem in PRC medical practice
以虛帶實	(idiom) to use the abstract to guide the concrete
以西	to the west of (suffix)
以西結書	Book of Ezekiel
以言代法	to substitute one's words for the law (idiom); high-handedly putting one's orders above the law
以言代法，以權壓法	to substitute one's words for the law and abuse power to crush it (idiom); completely lawless behavior
以訛傳訛	to spread falsehoods; to increasingly distort the truth
以貌取人	to judge sb by appearances (idiom)
以資	by way of; to serve as
以資證明	in support or witness hereof (idiom)
以賽亞書	Book of Isaiah
以身作則	to set an example (idiom); to serve as a model
以身報國	to give one's body for the nation (idiom); to spend one's whole life in the service of the country
以身抵債	forced labor to repay a debt
以身相許	(of a woman) to give one's heart (to sb); (fig.) to devote oneself wholeheartedly to sb or sth
以身許國	to dedicate oneself to the cause of one's country (idiom)
以身試法	to challenge the law (idiom); to knowingly violate the law
以軍	Israeli soldiers
以逸待勞	to wait at one's ease for the exhausted enemy
以鄰為壑	to use one's neighbor as a drain
以防	(so as) to avoid; to prevent; (just) in case
以防萬一	to guard against the unexpected (idiom); just in case
以降	since (some point in the past)
以饗讀者	for the benefit of the reader
以馬內利	Emanuel; Immanuel (name)
仨	three (colloquial equivalent of 三個|三个)
仫	used in 仫佬族[Mu4 lao3 zu2], Mulao ethnic group of Guangxi
仫佬	Mulao ethnic group
仫佬族	Mulao ethnic group
仰	to face upward; to look up; to admire
仰人鼻息	to rely on others for the air one breathes (idiom); to depend on sb's whim for one's living
仰仗	to rely on; to depend on
仰光	Yangon (Rangoon), city, capital of Myanmar from 1948 to 2006
仰光大金塔	Great Pagoda of Yangon (Rangoon)
仰天	to face upwards; to look up to the sky
仰屋	to lie looking at the ceiling (in despair)
仰屋興嘆	to stare at the ceiling in despair; to find no way out
仰屋著書	lit. to stare at the ceiling while writing a book (idiom); to put one's whole body and soul into a book
仰慕	to admire
仰望	to look up at; to look up to sb hopefully
仰泳	backstroke
仰臥	to lie supine
仰臥式	corpse pose (yoga)
仰臥起坐	sit-up (physical exercise)
仰視	to tilt one's head back to see (sth); to look up at
仰角	(math.) angle of elevation
仰賴	to rely on
仰躺	to lie on one's back
仰韶	Yangshao, a village in Henan Province where the first site of the Yangshao culture 仰韶文化[Yang3 shao2 wen2 hua4] was excavated, used metonymically to refer to the culture itself
仰韶文化	(archaeology) Yangshao culture, a Neolithic culture (c. 5000–3000 BC) in the central Yellow River basin, known for painted pottery, millet farming and village settlements
仰頭	to raise one's head
仲	second month of a season; middle; intermediate
仲介	(Tw) middleman; agent; broker
仲夏	midsummer; second month of summer
仲夏夜之夢	Midsummer night's dream, comedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚[Sha1 shi4 bi3 ya4]
仲尼	courtesy name for Confucius 孔夫子[Kong3 fu1 zi3]
仲巴縣	Zhongba, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
仲父	father's younger brother; (sometimes used to refer to Confucius)
仲秋	second month of autumn; 8th month of the lunar calendar
仲裁	arbitration
仳	to part
仵	equal; well-matched; to violate
仵作	coroner (old)
仵工	(HK) funeral worker; mortuary worker
件	item; component; classifier for events, things, clothes etc
件數	number of items (in a consignment etc)
价	(literary) messenger; servant
任	to assign; to appoint; to take up a post
任一	any; either
任一個	any one of (a list of possibilities)
任丘市	Renqiu, a county-level city in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
任事	appointment to an important post
任人	to appoint (sb to a post)
任人唯親	(idiom) to practice nepotism or cronyism in making appointments
任人唯賢	to appoint people according to their merits (idiom); appointment on the basis of ability and integrity
任人宰割	to get trampled on (idiom); to be taken advantage of
任令	to allow (sth to happen)
任何	any; whatever; whichever
任便	as you see fit; to do as one likes
任俠	chivalrous; helping the weak for the sake of justice
任免	to appoint and dismiss
任內	period in office
任其自然	to let things take their course (idiom); to leave it to nature
任務	mission; assignment; task; duty; role
任務欄	taskbar (computing)
任務管理器	(computing) task manager
任勞任怨	to work hard without complaint (idiom)
任命	to appoint; (job) appointment
任命狀	certificate of appointment (to government office)
任咎	to take the blame
任城區	Rencheng, a district of Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
任天堂	Nintendo
任安	Ren An (-c. 90 BC), Han Dynasty general, also called Ren Shaoqing 任少卿
任從	at one's discretion
任性	willful; headstrong; unruly
任情	to let oneself go; to do as much as one pleases
任意	any; arbitrary; at will
任意球	free kick (football); free throw (handball); free hit (field hockey)
任憑	no matter what; despite; to allow (sb to act arbitrarily)
任憑風浪起，穩坐釣魚臺	lit. to sit tight on the fishing terrace despite the storm (idiom)
任所	one's office; place where one holds a post
任教	to hold a teaching position
任期	term of office; tenure (entire period in office)
任氣	to act on impulse
任澤區	Renze, a district of Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
任用	to appoint; to assign
任由	to let (sb do sth); to allow; regardless of
任直	Nintendo Direct (announcement presentation)
任職	to hold a post; to take office
任職期間	term of office; while holding a post
任聽	to allow (sb to act arbitrarily); to let sb have his head
任誕	dissipated; unruly
任課	to give classes; to work as a teacher
任賢使能	to appoint the virtuous and use the able (idiom); appointment on the basis of ability and integrity
任達華	Simon Yam Tat-Wah (1955-), Hong Kong actor and film producer
任選	to choose freely; to pick whichever one fancies
任重道遠	a heavy load and a long road
任隨	to allow (sb to have his head); to let things happen
份	classifier for gifts, newspaper, magazine, papers, reports, contracts etc
份兒	degree; extent; allotted share
份兒飯	set meal
份子	one's share of expenses (e.g. when buying a gift collectively)
份子錢	gift money (on the occasion of a wedding etc)
份額	share; portion
仿	to imitate; to copy
仿似	as if; to seem
仿佛	to seem; as if; seemingly; alike; similar
仿傚	to copy; to imitate
仿冒	to counterfeit; fake
仿冒品	counterfeit object; imitation; fake
仿古	pseudo-classical; modeled on antique; in the old style
仿品	imitation product; counterfeit; knockoff; replica; reproduction
仿如	like; similar to; as if
仿宋	imitation Song dynasty typeface; Fangsong font
仿射	(math.) affine
仿射子空間	(math.) affine subspace
仿射空間	(math.) affine space
仿照	to imitate
仿生	to design an artificial system, taking inspiration from a living organism; bionic; biomimetic
仿生學	bionics; bionicist
仿皮	imitation leather
仿真	to emulate; to simulate; emulation
仿真服務器	emulation server
仿紙	copying paper (with printed model characters and blank squares for writing practice)
仿羊皮紙	imitation parchment
仿行	to fashion after; to imitate
仿製	to copy; to imitate; to make by imitating a model
仿製品	counterfeit object; fake
仿製藥	generic drug; generic medicine
仿諷	parody
仿賽	race-replica motorcycle; street-legal motorcycle styled after racing bikes
仿造	to copy; to produce sth after a model; to counterfeit
伀	restless; agitated
企	(bound form) to stand on tiptoe and look; to anticipate; to look forward to
企劃	to plan (a project)
企及	to hope to reach; to strive for
企圖	to attempt; to try; attempt
企圖心	ambition; ambitious
企慕	to admire
企投	(Tw) to have fun (from Taiwanese 𨑨迌, Tai-lo pr. [tshit-thô])
企望	to hope for; to look forward to
企業	company; firm; enterprise; corporation
企業主	owner of enterprise
企業家	entrepreneur
企業社會責任	corporate social responsibility (CSR)
企業管理	business management
企業管理碩士	Master of Business Administration (MBA)
企業聯合組織	syndicate (group of businesses)
企業集團	business conglomerate
企求	to seek for; to hope to gain; desirous
企盼	to hope for; to look forward to
企穩	(of economy, prices etc) to stabilize
企管碩士	Master of Business Administration (MBA)
企鵝	penguin
伄	used in 伄儅[diao4 dang1]
伄儅	seldom; irregularly
伈	nervous; fearful
伉	spouse; big and tall; strong
伉儷	(literary) husband and wife; married couple
伉儷情深	married couple very much in love; deep conjugal love
伊	(old) third person singular pronoun ("he" or "she")
伊人	(literary) that person (usually female); she; one's intended
伊倫	Irun (city in Basque region of Spain)
伊凡	Ivan (Russian name)
伊利亞特	the "Iliad", Homer's epic poem about the Trojan War
伊利埃斯庫	Iliescu
伊利格瑞	Luce Irigaray (1930-), French psychoanalyst and feminist
伊利湖	Lake Erie, one of the Great Lakes 五大湖[Wu3 da4 hu2]
伊利諾	Illinois, US state
伊利諾伊	Illinois, US state
伊勢丹	Isetan, Japanese department store
伊吾縣	Yiwu, a county in Hami City 哈密市[Ha1 mi4 Shi4], Xinjiang
伊塔	eta (Greek letter Η, η)
伊塞克湖	Issyk-Kul (a large lake in eastern Kyrgyzstan)
伊壁鳩魯	Epicurus (341-270 BC), ancient Greek philosopher
伊士曼柯達公司	Eastman Kodak Company (US film company)
伊妹兒	(loanword) email
伊始	outset; beginning
伊娃	Eva (name)
伊娃·門德斯	Eva Mendes, American actress
伊寧市	Yining, a county-level city in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
伊寧縣	Yining, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
伊尼亞斯	Aeneas
伊尼伊德	Aeneid
伊尼特	Virgil's Aeneid (epic about the foundation of Rome)
伊川縣	Yichuan, a county in Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
伊州	Tang dynasty province in modern Xinjiang, around Hami 哈密[Ha1 mi4]
伊思邁爾	Ismail (name)
伊戈爾	Igor
伊戈爾斯	Eagles (name)
伊拉克	Iraq
伊斯坦堡	(Tw) Istanbul
伊斯坦布爾	Istanbul, Turkey
伊斯帕尼奧拉	Hispaniola (Caribbean island including Haiti and the Dominican Republic)
伊斯曼	Eastman (name)
伊斯法罕	Isfahan province and city in central Iran
伊斯蘭	Islam
伊斯蘭國	Muslim countries; caliphate
伊斯蘭堡	Islamabad, capital of Pakistan
伊斯蘭教	Islam
伊斯蘭聖戰組織	Islamic Jihad (Palestinian armed faction)
伊斯蘭馬巴德	Islamabad, capital of Pakistan (Tw)
伊於胡底	where will it stop?
伊春市	Yichun, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
伊普西隆	epsilon (Greek letter Εε)
伊曼紐爾	Emanuel; Immanuel (name)
伊朗	Iran
伊朗憲監會	Guardian Council of the Constitution of Iran
伊比利亞	Iberia; the Iberian peninsula
伊比利亞半島	Iberian Peninsula
伊水	Yi river in west Henan, tributary of North Luo river 洛河|洛河[Luo4 he2]
伊波拉	Ebola (virus)
伊洛瓦底	Irrawaddy or Ayeyarwady, the main river of Myanmar
伊爾庫茨克	Irkutsk
伊犁哈薩克自治州	Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture, in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
伊犁河	Ili River in central Asia
伊犁盆地	the Yili basin around Urumqi in Xinjiang
伊瑞克提翁廟	the Erechteum, Athens
伊瑪目	imam (Islam) (loanword)
伊甸園	Garden of Eden
伊留申	Ilyushin, Russian plane maker
伊科病毒	echovirus (RNA virus in genus Enterovirus)
伊索	Aesop (c. 620–560 BC), ancient Greek storyteller and supposed author of Aesop's Fables
伊索寓言	Aesop's Fables, a collection of fables attributed to Aesop
伊美區	Yimei, a district of Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
伊芙	Eve (name)
伊莉莎白	Elizabeth; also written 伊麗莎白|伊丽莎白
伊莉薩白	Elizabeth (name); also written 伊麗莎白|伊丽莎白
伊萊克斯	Electrolux (Swedish manufacturer of home appliances)
伊萬卡	Ivanka (name)
伊薩卡	Ithaca, a Greek island
伊藤	Itō or Itoh, Japanese surname
伊藤博文	Itō Hirobumi (1841–1909), Japan's first prime minister (served four terms), key figure in Japan's colonial expansion into Korea
伊蚊	Aedes, a genus of mosquito
伊通河	Yitong River in Siping 四平[Si4 ping2], Jilin
伊通滿族自治縣	Yitong Manchu Autonomous County, in Siping City 四平市[Si4 ping2 Shi4], Jilin
伊通火山群	Yitong volcanic area in Yitong Manchurian autonomous county 伊通滿族自治縣|伊通满族自治县, Siping, Jilin
伊通自然保護區	Yitong nature reserve in Yitong Manchurian autonomous county 伊通滿族自治縣|伊通满族自治县, Siping, Jilin
伊里奇	Ilyich or Illich (name)
伊金霍洛	Ejin Horo banner (Ejen Khoruu khoshuu) in Ordos prefecture 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
伊金霍洛旗	Ejin Horo banner (Ejen Khoruu khoshuu) in Ordos prefecture 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
伊頓公學	Eton public school (English elite school)
伊麗莎白	Elizabeth (person name)
伊麵	yi mein (or yee mee or yee-fu noodles etc), a variety of Cantonese egg noodle
伊黨	Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party
伋	unreal
伍	squad of five soldiers; to associate with
伍奢	Wu She (–522 BC), father of Wu Zixu 伍子胥[Wu3 Zi3 xu1], official of the state of Chu, executed after being falsely accused by King Ping of Chu
伍子胥	Wu Zixu (–484 BC), Chu-born strategist for Wu. After the King of Chu executed his family, he fled to Wu and masterminded Wu's invasion of Chu (506 BC), destroying its capital in a campaign that doubled as personal vengeance.
伍家崗區	Wujiagang, a district of Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
伍廷芳	Wu Tingfang (1842-1922), diplomat and lawyer
伍德豪斯	Woodhouse or Wodehouse (name)
伍斯特醬	Worcestershire sauce
伎	artistry; talent; skill
伎倆	trick; scheme; ploy; skill
伏	to lean over; to fall (go down); to hide (in ambush)
伏兵	hidden troops; ambush
伏地	to lie prostrate
伏地挺身	(Tw) push-up (exercise)
伏地魔	Lord Voldemort, villain in the Harry Potter series
伏安	volt-ampere (measure of apparent power in alternating current circuits)
伏惟	to lie prostrate; to prostrate oneself (in veneration)
伏擊	ambush; to ambush
伏明霞	Fu Mingxia (1978–), Chinese diver and Olympic champion
伏案	to bend over one's desk (writing, studying, taking a nap etc)
伏汛	summer flood
伏法	to be executed
伏流	hidden stream; ground stream
伏爾加格勒	Volgograd, city in Russia on the Volga River 伏爾加河|伏尔加河[Fu2 er3 jia1 He2]
伏爾加河	Volga River
伏爾泰	Voltaire (1694–1778), French Enlightenment writer and philosopher
伏牛山	Funiu Mountains in southwestern Henan, eastern extension of the Qinling mountain range 秦嶺山脈|秦岭山脉[Qin2 ling3 Shan1 mai4]
伏特	(loanword) volt
伏特加	(loanword) vodka
伏特計	voltmeter
伏筆	foreshadowing (literary device); foretaste of material to come (in an essay or story)
伏線	foreshadowing (literary device)
伏羅希洛夫	Kliment Voroshilov (1881–1969), Soviet politician and military commander
伏羲	Fuxi, legendary Chinese emperor, trad. 2852–2738 BC, mythical creator of fishing, trapping and writing
伏羲氏	Fuxi, legendary ruler in Chinese mythology credited with inventing fishing, trapping, and writing
伏臥	lying down; to lie prostrate; prone
伏虎	to subdue a tiger; fig. to prevail over sinister forces
伏誅	to be executed
伏都教	Voodoo
伏隔核	nucleus accumbens (anatomy)
伏龍鳳雛	hidden genius (idiom)
伐	to cut down; to fell; to dispatch an expedition against
伐木	to fell trees (for timber)
伐木場	a logging area
伐木工	lumberjack; logger
伐柯	(cf Book of Songs) How to fashion an ax handle? You need an ax
休	to rest; to stop doing sth for a period of time; to cease
休伊特	(surname) Hewitt
休倫湖	Lake Huron, one of the Great Lakes 五大湖[Wu3 da4 hu2]
休假	to go on vacation; to have a holiday; to take leave
休克	(medicine) (loanword) shock; to go into shock
休兵	to cease fire; armistice; rested troops
休士頓	(Tw) Houston, Texas
休妻	to repudiate one's wife
休學	to suspend schooling; to defer study
休寧縣	Xiuning, a county in Huangshan City 黃山市|黄山市[Huang2 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
休市	to close the market (for a holiday or overnight etc)
休庭	to adjourn (law)
休怪	don't blame (sb)
休息	rest; to rest
休息室	lobby; lounge
休想	don't think (that); don't imagine (that)
休憩	to rest; to relax; to take a break
休戚相關	to share the same interests (idiom); to be closely related
休戰	armistice
休整	to rest and reorganize (military)
休斯敦	Houston, Texas
休斯頓	Houston, Texas
休旅車	sport utility vehicle (SUV)
休會	to adjourn
休止	to stop
休止符	rest (music)
休氏旋木雀	(bird species of China) Hume's treecreeper (Certhia manipurensis)
休氏樹鶯	(bird species of China) Hume's bush warbler (Horornis brunnescens)
休沐	(literary) a regular day off granted to officials in ancient times, for "rest and bathing"
休班	to be off duty
休眠	(biology) dormant; (of a volcano) dormant; (computing) to hibernate
休眠火山	dormant volcano
休耕	to leave farmland to lie fallow
休謨	David Hume (1711–1776), Scottish Enlightenment philosopher
休達	Ceuta, autonomous city of Spain on the northern coast of Africa, bordering Morocco
休閒	leisure; relaxation; not working
休閒褲	casual pants
休閒鞋	leisure shoes
休養	to recuperate; to recover; to convalesce
休養生息	to recover; to recuperate
伙	(bound form) meals (as in 伙食[huo3 shi2])
伙同	to collude; in collusion with
伙夫	(old) mess cook
伙計	partner; fellow; mate
伙食	food; meals
伙食費	food expenses; board expenses; meals (cost)
伢	(dialect) child
伢子	(dialect) child
伢崽	(dialect) child
伭	(literary) cruel; ruthless; (literary) dark red; black
伯	father's elder brother; senior; paternal elder uncle
伯仲之間	almost on a par
伯仲叔季	(idiom) eldest, second, third and youngest of brothers; order of seniority among brothers
伯伯	father's elder brother; uncle
伯傑	(surname) Berger
伯克利	Berkeley
伯利恆	Bethlehem
伯利茲	Belize
伯勞	shrike
伯勞鳥	shrike (family Laniidae)
伯南克	Ben Bernanke (1953–), US economist and chair of the Federal Reserve 2006–2014
伯叔	father's brother (uncle); husband's brother (brother-in-law)
伯叔祖母	father's father's brother's wife; great aunt
伯叔祖父	father's father's brother; great uncle
伯多祿	Peter (Catholic transliteration)
伯娘	wife of father's older brother; aunt
伯媽	(dialect) wife of father's older brother; aunt
伯恩	(Tw) Bern, capital of Switzerland
伯恩斯	(surname) Burns
伯恩茅斯	Bournemouth, town in southern England
伯明翰	Birmingham
伯樂	Bole (a man who lived during Spring and Autumn Period, reputed to be able to spot a good horse)
伯母	wife of father's elder brother; aunt
伯爵	earl; count; earldom or countship (old)
伯父	father's elder brother; term of respect for older man
伯爺	(dialect) father's older brother; uncle
伯爾尼	Bern, capital of Switzerland
伯特蘭	(name) Bertrand
伯特蘭德	(name) Bertrand
伯納姆	(name) Burnham
伯納斯－李	Tim Berners-Lee (1955–), British computer scientist and inventor of the World Wide Web
伯羅奔尼撒	Peloponnese, peninsula in southern Greece
伯莎	(name) Bertha
伯賽大	Bethsaida, settlement mentioned in the New Testament near the Sea of Galilee
伯邑考	Bo Yikao, eldest son of King Wen of Zhou 周文王[Zhou1 Wen2 wang2] and elder brother of King Wu of Zhou 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2]
伯都	(archaic) (dialect) tiger
伯里克利	Pericles (c. 495–429 BC), Athenian statesman and general during the Peloponnesian War
伯顏	Bayan of the Baarin (1236–1295), Mongol general under Kublai Khan who led the conquest of the Southern Song
估	used in 估衣[gu4 yi5]
估值	valuation; estimation
估價	to value; to appraise; to be valued at
估堆兒	to assess an entire lot
估定	to assess; to estimate the value
估摸	to reckon; to guess
估測	estimate
估產	to assess; to estimate (value of property, yield of harvest etc)
估算	assessment; evaluation
估衣	secondhand clothes; cheap ready-made clothes
估計	to estimate; to assess; to calculate
估量	to estimate; to assess
伲	(dialect) I; my; we
伴	partner; companion; comrade; associate; to accompany
伴侶	companion; mate; partner
伴侶號	HMS Consort, a Royal Navy destroyer involved in the 1949 Amethyst Incident on the Yangtze River
伴同	to accompany
伴君如伴虎	being close to the sovereign can be as perilous as lying with a tiger (idiom)
伴唱	to sing backup; backup singer
伴奏	to accompany (musically)
伴娘	bridesmaid; maid of honor; matron of honor
伴手禮	(Tw) gift given when visiting sb (esp. a local specialty brought back from one's travels, or a special product of one's own country taken overseas)
伴星	(astronomy) companion star
伴有	to be accompanied by
伴熱	electric heat tracing; steam tracing (for maintaining the temperature of pipes etc)
伴生氣	associated gas (petrochemical engineering)
伴舞	to be a dancing partner to sb; to perform as a backup dancer
伴郎	best man; groomsman
伴隨	to accompany; to follow; to occur together with
伴隨矩陣	(math.) adjugate matrix; classical adjoint matrix
伶	(old) actor; actress; (meaningless bound form)
伶人	(old) actor; actress
伶仃	alone and helpless
伶俐	clever; witty; intelligent; deft; adroit
伶俜	(literary) lonely; all alone; solitary
伶牙俐齒	clever and eloquent (idiom); fluent; having the gift of the gab
伶盜龍	velociraptor (dinosaur)
伶鼬	weasel; Mustela nivalis (zoology)
伸	to stretch; to extend
伸冤	to right wrongs; to redress an injustice
伸出	to extend
伸卡球	(baseball) (loanword) sinker
伸展	stretching; extension
伸展臺	runway (for a fashion show etc); catwalk
伸張	to uphold (e.g. justice or virtue); to promote
伸懶腰	to stretch oneself (on waking or when tired etc)
伸手	to reach out with one's hand; to hold out a hand; (fig.) to beg
伸手不見五指	pitch-dark (idiom)
伸手派	freeloader; moocher; sponger
伸手牌	freeloader; moocher; sponger
伸直	to straighten; to stretch out
伸縮	to lengthen and shorten; flexible; adjustable
伸縮喇叭	trombone
伸縮性	flexibility
伸肌	extensor (anatomy)
伸長	to stretch; to extend
伸開	to stretch out (one's arms or legs etc)
伹	clumsy and dumb; slow-witted
伺	to watch; to wait; to examine
伺候	to serve; to wait upon
伺服器	server (computer) (Tw)
伺服電機	servomotor
伺機	to wait for an opportunity; to watch for one's chance
伺隙	to wait for the opportunity
伻	to cause
似	to seem; to appear; to resemble
似乎	it seems; seemingly; as if
似地	(used to form an adverbial phrase X + 似地[shi4 de5]) like (X); as if (X)
似懂非懂	to not really understand; to half-understand
似是而非	apparently right but actually wrong; specious (idiom)
似曾相識	déjà vu (the experience of seeing exactly the same situation a second time)
似核	nucleoid (of prokaryotic cell)
似水年華	fleeting years (idiom)
似的	seems as if; rather like; Taiwan pr. [si4 de5]
似笑非笑	like a smile yet not a smile (idiom)
似雪	snowy
似鯝	Xenocyprioides, genus of cyprinid fish endemic to China
伽	used in the transliteration of Greek letters
伽倻	Gaya, a Korean confederacy of territorial polities in the Nakdong River basin of southern Korea (42-532 AD)
伽倻琴	gayageum (Korean 12-stringed zither)
伽利略	Galileo Galilei (1564-1642), Italian scientist
伽利略·伽利雷	Galileo Galilei (1564-1642), Italian scientist
伽利略號	Galileo, American robotic spacecraft launched to Jupiter in 1989, orbiting the planet 1995-2003
伽師縣	Payzawat, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
伽羅瓦	Évariste Galois (1811–1832), French mathematician
伽羅瓦理論	(math.) Galois theory
伽羅華	Évariste Galois (1811–1832), French mathematician
伽羅華理論	Galois theory (math.)
伽藍	Buddhist temple (loanword from Sanskrit "samgharama")
伽馬	(loanword) gamma (Greek letter Γ, γ); Taiwan pr. [jia1ma3]
伽馬射線	gamma ray
伾	multitudinous; powerful
佃	to rent farmland from a landlord
佃戶	tenant farmer
佃農	tenant farmer; sharecropper
但	but; yet; however; still; merely; only; just
但丁	Dante Alighieri (1265-1321), Italian poet, author of the Divine Comedy 神曲
但以理書	Book of Daniel
但凡	every single; as long as
但尼生	Tennyson (name)
但是	but; however
但書	proviso; qualifying clause
但說無妨	there is no harm in saying what one thinks (idiom)
但願	if only (sth were possible); I wish (that)
但願如此	if only it were so; I hope so (idiom)
佇	to stand for a long time; to wait; to look forward to
佇列	queue (computing)
佇立	to stand for a long time
佈	to announce; to spread
佈伍	to deploy troops
佈告	posting on a bulletin board; notice; bulletin
佈告欄	bulletin board
佈局	arrangement; composition; layout
佈局投手	(baseball) setup man; setup pitcher
佈建	to progressively extend (service delivery, network etc) to a wider area
佈景	(stage) set
佈置	to arrange; to set up; to lay out; to assign (tasks, homework etc)
佈道	sermon; to sermonize; to preach
佈雷	to lay mines
佈雷艦	minelayer (ship)
佉	surname Qu
佉盧文	Kharosthi (ancient language of central Asia)
佌	petty; wretched
位	position; location; place
位元	(Tw) (computing) bit
位元幣	Bitcoin
位元組	(Tw) byte (computing)
位列	to rank
位圖	raster graphics
位子	place; seat
位居	to be located at
位形	configuration
位形空間	configuration space (math.)
位於	to be located at; to be situated at; to lie
位極人臣	to have reached the highest official positions
位次	place (in numbered sequence); degree on employment scale
位移	(geometry) displacement (a vector quantity)
位置	position; place; seat
位置效應	position effect
位能	(physics) potential energy
位面	plane (of existence)
低	low; beneath; to lower (one's head)
低三下四	servile
低下	low status; lowly; to lower (one's head)
低丘	hilly (geography)
低估	to underestimate; to underrate
低低切切	in a low voice; whispered
低俗	vulgar; poor taste
低俗之風	vulgar style (used of items to be censored)
低俗化	vulgarization
低保	subsistence allowance
低保真	low fidelity; lo-fi
低價	low price
低八度	an octave lower (music)
低分	low marks; low score
低利	low interest
低利貸款	low interest loan
低劑量照射	low dose irradiation
低劣	inferior quality; substandard; low-grade
低吟	to chant softly; to murmur
低地	lowland
低地繡眼鳥	(bird species of China) lowland white-eye (Zosterops meyeni)
低垂	to droop; to hang low
低壓	low pressure; low voltage
低壓帶	low-pressure zone; depression (meteorology)
低層	low level
低幫	low-top (shoes)
低平火山口	maar
低年級	a lower grade (in a school) (e.g. 1st or 2nd year); the lower division (of a school etc)
低廉	cheap; inexpensive; low
低微	meager (wages); humble (social status); feeble (voice)
低息	low-interest
低成本	low cost; inexpensive
低收入	low income
低放射性廢物	low-level waste
低效	inefficient; ineffective
低於	to be lower than
低昂	ups and down; rise and fall
低檔	low-grade; of low worth or rank; poor quality
低欄	low hurdles (track event)
低氣壓	low pressure; depression (meteorology)
低沉	(of weather) overcast; gloomy; (of a voice) low and deep
低消	minimum spend (stipulated by a restaurant, bar, club etc) (abbr. for 最低消費|最低消费[zui4 di1 xiao1 fei4])
低消費	low level of spending; small expenditure
低溫	low temperature
低潮	low tide; low ebb
低濃縮鈾	low-enriched uranium (LEU)
低熱	low-grade fever (37.3–38°C)
低燒	a low fever (up to 38°C)
低產	low yield
低眉順眼	docile; submissive
低矮	short; low
低碳	(attributive) low-carbon; low-carb (diet)
低空	low altitude
低空跳傘	BASE Jumping
低空飛過	to just scrape through with a narrow pass (in an exam)
低窪	low-lying
低端	low-end
低端人口	low-paid workers in industries that offer jobs for the unskilled
低等	inferior
低等動物	lower animal; primitive animal
低筋麵粉	low-gluten flour; cake flour; pastry flour
低粉	abbr. for 低筋麵粉|低筋面粉[di1 jin1 mian4 fen3]
低糖	low-sugar
低級	low level; rudimentary; vulgar
低級語言	low-level (computer) language
低維	low-dimensional (math.)
低緩	low and unhurried (voice etc); low and gently sloping (terrain)
低耗	low consumption (energy, fuel etc)
低聚物	oligomer (chemistry)
低聲	in a low voice; softly
低聲細語	in a whisper; in a low voice (idiom)
低胸	low-cut (dress); plunging (neckline)
低能	incapable; incompetent; stupid
低能兒	retarded child; moron; idiot
低脂	low fat
低落	downcast; gloomy; to decline; to get worse
低血壓	low blood pressure
低血糖	hypoglycemia (medicine)
低語	mutter
低調	low pitch; quiet (voice); subdued
低谷	valley; trough (as opposed to peaks); fig. low point
低賤	lowly; humble; cheap; inexpensive
低迷	blurred (landscape etc); low (spirits); in a slump (economy)
低速	low speed
低速區	low-velocity zone (seismology)
低速擋	low gear; bottom gear
低速率	low speed
低開	(finance) (of the price of a security etc) to open lower than the previous closing price
低開高走	(finance) (of the price of a security etc) to open lower than the previous closing price but rise throughout the trading session
低陷	to sink; to settle
低階	low level
低階語言	low-level (computer) language
低音	bass
低音喇叭	woofer
低音大提琴	double bass; contrabass
低音大號	tuba
低音提琴	double bass; contrabass
低音炮	subwoofer
低音管	bassoon
低領口	low-cut neckline
低頭	to bow the head; to yield; to give in
低頭族	smartphone addicts
低頭認罪	to bow one's head in acknowledgment of guilt; to admit one's guilt
低首下心	to be fawningly submissive (idiom)
低體溫症	hypothermia
低齡	(of a member of a specific cohort) lower than average in age
低齡化	(of a certain group of people, e.g. recreational drug users) to become younger, on average, than before
低齡犯罪	juvenile crime; juvenile delinquency
住	to live; to reside; to stay; to stop; to cease
住區	living area
住友	Sumitomo, Japanese company
住口	shut up; shut your mouth; stop talking
住商	residential and commercial
住嘴	to hold one's tongue; Shut up!
住地	living area; residential area
住址	address
住宅	residence; dwelling; abode
住宅區	residential area; housing development
住宅樓	residential building
住宅泡沫	housing bubble
住客	hotel guest; tenant
住家	residence; household; to reside
住宿	to stay at; lodging; accommodation
住居	to live; to reside
住建部	PRC Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development (MOHURD) (abbr. for 住房和城鄉建設部|住房和城乡建设部[Zhu4 fang2 he2 Cheng2 Xiang1 Jian4 she4 bu4])
住戶	household; inhabitant; householder
住房	housing
住房和城鄉建設部	PRC Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development (MOHURD)
住所	habitation; dwelling place; residence
住手	to desist; to stop; to stay one's hand
住持	to administer a monastery Buddhist or Daoist; abbot; head monk
住校	to board at school
住棚節	Sukkot or Succoth, Jewish holiday
住海邊	(fig.) (slang) to stick one's nose in other people's affairs (i.e. the scope of other people's business that one concerns oneself with is as wide as an ocean vista)
住腳	(old) to halt; to stop
住舍	house; residence
住處	residence; dwelling
住讀	to attend boarding school
住院	to stay in hospital; to be hospitalized
住院部	inpatient department
住院醫師	resident physician
佐	to assist; assistant; aide
佐世保	Sasebo (city and naval port in Nagasaki, Japan)
佐丹奴	Giordano (brand)
佐佐木	Sasaki (Japanese surname)
佐料	condiments; seasoning
佐治亞	Georgia, US state
佐科威	Joko Widodo (1961-), Indonesian politician, president of Indonesia (2014-)
佐羅	Zorro
佐藤	Satō (Japanese surname)
佐證	evidence; proof; to confirm
佐貳	deputy; junior
佐酒	(of food or a pleasant activity) to accompany drinks; to enhance the experience of consuming alcohol
佐野	Sano (Japanese surname and place name)
佐餐	(of food) accompaniment
佑	(bound form) to bless; to protect
佑護	blessing
佔上風	to take the lead; to gain the upper hand
佔下風	to be at a disadvantage
佔中	Occupy Central, Hong Kong civil disobedience movement (September 2014 -)
佔便宜	advantageous; favorable; to benefit at others' expense
佔優勢	to predominate; to occupy a dominant position
佔先	to take precedence
佔去	to take up (one's time etc); to occupy (one's attention etc)
佔壓	to tie up (funds or resources etc that could otherwise be used)
佔據	to occupy; to hold
佔有	to have; to own; to hold
佔為己有	to appropriate to oneself (what rightfully belongs to others)
佔用	to occupy
佔線	busy (telephone line)
佔領	to capture; to seize; to occupy by force
佔領者	occupant
何	what; how; why
何不	why not?; why not do (sth)?
何不食肉糜	(lit.) "Why don't they eat meat porridge?" (said by Emperor Hui of Jin 晉惠帝|晋惠帝[Jin4 Hui4 di4] when told that his people lacked rice) (saying)
何人	who
何以	(literary) why; how
何以見得	how can one be sure?
何其	(literary) (similar to 多麼|多么[duo1 me5], used before an adjective in exclamations) how (fortunate etc); so (many etc)
何出此言	where do these words stem from?
何厚鏵	He Houhua (1955-), Macau financier and politician, Chief Executive 1999-2009
何去何從	what course to follow; what path to take
何啻	(literary) far more than; not limited to
何嘗	(rhetorical question) when?; how?; it's not that...
何在	where?; what place?
何如	how about; what kind of
何妨	what harm is there in (doing sth)
何干	what business?
何必	there is no need; why should
何應欽	He Yingqin (1890-1987), senior Guomindang general
何所	where; what place
何故	what for?; what's the reason?
何方	where?
何方神聖	who's this big shot?
何日	when?
何時	when
何曾	did I ever ...? (or "did he ever ...?" etc)
何樂不為	(idiom) what is there against it? (rhetorical question indicating an eagerness or willingness to do sth)
何樂而不為	what is there against it? (rhetorical question indicating an eagerness or willingness to do sth)
何止	far more than; not just
何況	let alone; to say nothing of; besides
何為	what is; (old) what for; (in a rhetorical question) it's no use
何等	what kind?; how, what; somewhat
何苦	why bother?; is it worth the trouble?
何處	whence; where
何西阿書	Book of Hosea
何許	(literary) what place; what time; how
何許人	(literary) what kind of person
何謂	(literary) what is?; what is the meaning of?
何須	there is no need; why should
何首烏	Chinese knotweed (Polygonum multiflorum); fleeceflower root
佗	carry on the back
佘	surname She
余	(literary) I; me
余月	alternative term for fourth lunar month
余車	emperor's carriage
佚	(bound form) (of a book, author etc) lost (to the ages)
佚名	(of an author) anonymous
佛	Buddha; Buddhism (abbr. for 佛陀[Fo2 tuo2])
佛像	Buddhist image; statue of Buddha or Bodhisattva
佛光	Buddha's teachings; aura (around the head of Buddha)
佛典	Buddhist scriptures; Buddhist classics
佛卡夏	(loanword) focaccia
佛口蛇心	words of a Buddha, heart of a snake (idiom); two-faced
佛吉尼亞	Virginia, US state
佛坪縣	Foping, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
佛塔	pagoda
佛媛	Buddhist griftress (female Internet influencer who exploits Buddhist imagery for self-promotion or commercial purposes)
佛學	Buddhist doctrine; Buddhist studies
佛家	Buddhism; Buddhist
佛寺	Buddhist temple
佛山市	Foshan, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
佛岡縣	Fogang, a county in Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
佛州	Florida (abbr. for 佛羅里達州|佛罗里达州[Fo2 luo2 li3 da2 Zhou1])
佛得角	Cape Verde
佛心	Buddha-like heart (full of compassion)
佛性	Buddha nature
佛愛	phi (Greek letter Φ, φ)
佛手	Buddha's hand; fingered citron (Citrus medica var. sarcodactylis)
佛手柑	Buddha's hand; fingered citron (Citrus medica var. sarcodactylis)
佛手瓜	chayote (Sechium edule); choko; mirliton
佛教	Buddhism
佛教徒	Buddhist
佛教語	Buddhist term
佛書	Buddhist scripture
佛朗哥	Franco (name)
佛朗明哥	(Tw) (loanword) flamenco
佛朗機	Portuguese (Ming era loanword)
佛朗機炮	Western (or Western-style) cannon of the Ming era
佛朗機銃	Western (and so styled) cannon of the Ming era
佛法	Dharma (the teachings of the Buddha); Buddhist doctrine
佛法僧目	Coraciiformes, class of birds including kingfishers and hornbills
佛洛伊德	Floyd (name); Freud (name)
佛洛斯特	(surname) Frost
佛爺	Buddha (term of respect for Sakyamuni 釋迦牟尼|释迦牟尼[Shi4 jia1 mou2 ni2])
佛牙	Buddha's tooth (as a holy relic)
佛珠	Buddhist prayer beads
佛祖	Buddha; founder of a buddhist sect
佛系	(neologism, attested by 2017) (coll.) chill about everything (typically used to describe young people who don't buy into aspirational society)
佛經	Buddhist texts; Buddhist scripture
佛羅倫斯	(Tw) Florence, Italy
佛羅倫薩	Florence, Italy
佛羅里達	Florida
佛羅里達州	Florida
佛舍利	ashes of cremated Buddha
佛蒙特	Vermont, US state
佛蘭德	of or relating to Flemish people, language or culture
佛蘭芒語	Flemish (language)
佛號	one of the many names of Buddha
佛誕日	Buddha's Birthday (8th day of the 4th Lunar month)
佛語	Buddhist term
佛跳牆	lit. Buddha jumps over the wall, name for a Chinese dish that uses many non-vegetarian ingredients
佛門	Buddhism
佛陀	Buddha (a person who has attained Buddhahood, or specifically Siddhartha Gautama)
佛香閣	Tower of Buddhist Incense in the Summer Palace 頤和園|颐和园[Yi2 he2 yuan2], Beijing
佛骨	Buddha's bones (as a sacred relic)
佛骨塔	stupa (Buddhist shrine)
佛龕	niche for statue (esp. Buddhist, Christian etc)
作	to do; to engage in; to write; to compose; to pretend; to feign
作下	to do; to make (usually bad connotation)
作主	to decide; to have the final say
作亂	to rebel; to rise in revolt
作人	to conduct oneself; same as 做人
作件	workpiece
作伴	to accompany; to keep sb company
作保	to act as surety for sb; to be sb's guarantor; to stand bail for sb
作假	to counterfeit; to falsify; to cheat
作出	to put out; to come up with
作別	to take one's leave; to bid farewell
作勢	to adopt an attitude; to strike a posture
作古	to die; to pass away
作合	to make a match; to get married
作品	work (of art); opus
作嘔	to feel sick; to feel nauseous; to feel disgusted
作坊	workshop (of artisan)
作好準備	to prepare; to make adequate preparation
作妖	(dialect) to cause trouble; to act up
作姦犯科	to flout the law
作威作福	tyrannical abuse (idiom); riding roughshod over people
作孽	to sin
作客	to live somewhere as a visitor; to stay with sb as a guest; to sojourn
作家	author
作對	to set oneself against; to oppose; to make a pair
作廢	to become invalid; to cancel; to delete
作弄	to tease; to play tricks on
作弊	to practice fraud; to cheat; to engage in corrupt practices
作怪	(of a ghost) to make strange things happen; to act up
作息	to work and rest
作息時間	daily schedule; daily routine
作息時間表	daily schedule; work schedule
作惡	to do evil
作愛	to make love
作態	to put on an attitude; to pose
作戰	combat; to fight
作手	writer; expert
作揖	to bow with hands held in front
作數	valid; counting (as valid)
作文	to write an essay; composition (student essay)
作料	condiments; seasoning; coll. pr. [zuo2 liao5]
作曲	to compose (music)
作曲家	composer; songwriter
作曲者	composer; song writer
作東	to host (a dinner); to treat; to pick up the check
作案	to commit a crime
作梗	to obstruct; to stand in the way; to interfere; to create difficulties
作業	school assignment; homework; work
作業員	operator (of a machine etc); factory worker
作業環境	operating environment
作業系統	operating system (Tw)
作樂	to make merry
作死	to court disaster; also pr. [zuo1si3]
作法	course of action; method of doing sth; practice
作準	to be valid; to count; authentic
作為	one's conduct; deed; activity
作物	crop
作用	to act on; to affect; action; function; activity
作用力	(physics) action force
作用域	(computing) scope
作用域鏈	(computing) scope chain
作畫	to draw; to paint; to create artwork
作痛	to ache
作祟	haunted; to haunt; to cause mischief
作秀	to show off (loanword, from English "show"); to grandstand
作筆記	to take notes
作答	to answer; to respond
作繭	to make a cocoon
作繭自縛	to spin a cocoon around oneself (idiom); enmeshed in a trap of one's own devising
作罷	to drop (subject etc)
作者	author; writer
作者不詳	author unknown
作者未詳	author unspecified
作者權	copyright
作興	maybe; possibly; there is reason to believe
作色	to show signs of anger; to flush with annoyance
作誓	to pledge
作證	to bear witness; to testify; to serve as evidence
作證能力	competence
作賊	to be a thief
作踐	to ill-use; to humiliate; to degrade
作輟	now working, now stopping
作陪	to attend (a banquet etc) to keep a chief guest company
作風	style; style of work; way
作風正派	to be honest and upright; to have moral integrity
作馬	sawhorse
作鳥獸散	lit. scatter like birds and beasts (idiom)
佝	used in 佝僂|佝偻[gou1 lou2]; Taiwan pr. [kou4]
佝僂	stooped; hunched over
佝僂病	(medicine) rickets
佞	to flatter; flattery
佟	surname Tong
佟佳江	Tongjia River in Manchuria, a tributary of the Yalu River 鴨綠江|鸭绿江[Ya1 lu4 Jiang1]
你	you (informal, as opposed to courteous 您[nin2])
你個頭	(coll.) my ass!; yeah, right! (used to mock a claim sb just made, as in 專家你個頭|专家你个头[zhuan1 jia1 ni3 ge5 tou2] "expert", my ass!)
你們	you (plural)
你好	hello; hi
你媽	(interjection) fuck you; (intensifier) fucking
你情我願	to both be willing; mutual consent
你我	you and I; everyone; all of us (in society)
你死我活	lit. you die, I live (idiom); irreconcilable adversaries
你爭我奪	lit. you fight, I snatch (idiom); to compete fiercely offering no quarter
你看著辦吧	You figure it out for yourself.; Do as you please.
你真行	you're incredible (often an ironic expression of vexation, but can also express approbation)
你等	(archaic) you all
你走你的陽關道，我過我的獨木橋	lit. you hit the high road, I'll cross the log bridge (idiom)
你追我趕	friendly one-upmanship; to try to emulate
佡	light (as a feather)
佢	(Cantonese) he, she, it
佣	commission (for middleman); brokerage fee
佣金	commission
佣錢	commission; brokerage
佤	Wa ethnic group
佤族	Wa ethnic group
佧	ancient name for an ethnic group in China
佧佤族	Wa, Kawa or Va ethnic group of Myanmar, south China and southeast Asia
佩	to respect; to wear (belt etc)
佩劍	sword; (fencing) saber
佩奇	Peppa, from Peppa Pig cartoon
佩帶	to wear (as accessories); carry at the waist
佩戴	to wear (as an accessory: jewelry, pedometer, ID card etc)
佩服	to admire
佩洛西	Nancy Pelosi (1940–), US Democratic politician, Speaker of the House of Representatives 2007–2011 and 2019–2023
佩環	ring-like jade belt pendant
佩皮尼昂	Perpignan (city in France)
佩蘭	orchid; fragrant thoroughwort; (botany) Eupatorium fortunei
佩飾	ornament; pendant
佩魯賈	Perugia (city in Italy)
佪	irresolute; to move back and forth
佫	surname He
佬	male; man (Cantonese)
佯	to feign; to pretend
佯狂	to feign madness
佯裝	to pretend; to pose as
佯言	to claim falsely (literary)
佰	hundred (banker's anti-fraud numeral)
佳	beautiful; fine; good
佳世客	JUSCO, Japanese chain of hypermarkets
佳人	beautiful woman
佳人才子	(lit.) beautiful lady, gifted scholar (idiom)
佳作	masterpiece; fine piece of writing
佳偶	happily married couple
佳利釀	Carignan (grape type)
佳境	(literary) beautiful surroundings; scenic spot
佳妙	wonderful; beautiful (calligraphy)
佳得樂	Gatorade (brand)
佳期	wedding day; day of tryst
佳木斯大學	Jiamusi University (Heilongjiang)
佳木斯市	Jiamusi, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
佳潔士	Crest (brand)
佳節	festive day; holiday
佳縣	Jia County or Jiaxian, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
佳績	good result; success
佳美	beautiful
佳能	Canon (Japanese company)
佳評如潮	a hit; tremendous popularity
佳話	story or deed that captures the imagination and is spread far and wide
佳釀	excellent wine
佳里	Jiali, a district in Tainan 台南|台南[Tai2 nan2], Taiwan
佳音	good news
佳餚	fine food; delicacies; delicious food
佳麗	a beauty; beautiful
佳麗釀	Carignan (grape type)
佴	assistant
併	to combine; to amalgamate
併入	to merge into; to incorporate in
併吞	to swallow up; to annex; to merge
併捲機	ribbon lap machine
併攏	to draw together
併發	to happen simultaneously
併發症	complications (undesired side-effect of medical procedure)
併紗	doubling (combining two or more lengths of yarn into a single thread)
併購	merger and acquisition (M and A); acquisition; to take over
併集	union (symbol ∪) (set theory)
佶	difficult to pronounce
佷	to act contrary to
佸	meet
佹	(literary) perverse; unreasonable; (literary) eccentric; enigmatic
佺	immortal
佻	frivolous; unsteady; delay
佼	handsome
佼佼	(literary) outstanding; exceptional
佼佼者	one of the best; a standout
佽	nimble; to help
佾	row of dancers at sacrifices
使	to make; to cause; to enable
使不得	cannot be used; must not (do sth); unacceptable
使人信服	convincing
使出	to use; to exert
使勁	to exert all one's strength
使命	mission; long-term task to which one devotes oneself; a calling
使喚	to order sb around
使團	diplomatic mission
使壞	to play dirty tricks; to be up to mischief
使役	to use (an animal or servant); working (animal); (beast) of burden
使徒	apostle
使徒行傳	Acts of the Apostles (New Testament)
使得	usable; serviceable; feasible; workable; doable
使性	to throw a fit; to act temperamental
使性子	to lose one's temper
使成	to cause; to render
使然	(literary) to make it so; to dictate
使用	to use; to employ; to apply
使用價值	usable value
使用條款	terms of use
使用權	usage rights
使用者	(Tw) user
使用量	volume of use; usage amount
使盡	to exert all one's strength
使眼色	to give sb a meaningful look
使節	(diplomatic) envoy
使節團	a diplomatic group; a delegation
使者	emissary; envoy
使領官員	ambassador and consul; diplomat
使領館	embassy and consulate
使館	consulate; diplomatic mission
侀	shape; statute
侁	large crowd
侂	(literary) to entrust (variant of 託|托[tuo1])
侃	upright and honest; cheerful; to chat idly
侃侃	to possess assurance and composure
侃侃而談	to speak frankly with assurance
侃價	to bargain; to haggle with a peddler
侃大山	to chatter idly; to gossip; to boast or brag
侃星	chatterbox; boaster
侃爺	big talker
侅	to give; prepared for included in; embraced in
來	to come; (used as a substitute for a more specific verb)
來M	(coll.) (of women) to get one's period
來不及	there's not enough time (to do sth); it's too late
來不得	cannot allow (to be present); cannot admit
來世	afterlife; next life
來之不易	(idiom) hard to come by; not easily obtained
來事	(coll.) (esp. after 會|会[hui4]) to be socially adept; to know how to handle people
來信	incoming letter; to send us a letter
來函	incoming letter; letter from afar; same as 來信|来信[lai2 xin4]
來到	to arrive; to come
來勁	(dialect) to be full of zeal; high-spirited; exhilarating
來勢	momentum of sth approaching
來去無蹤	come without a shadow, leave without a footprint (idiom); to come and leave without a trace
來台	to come to Taiwan
來回	to make a round trip; return journey; back and forth
來回來去	repeatedly; back and forth again and again
來安縣	Lai'an, a county in Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
來客	guest
來年	next year; the coming year
來往	to come and go; to have dealings with; to be in relation with
來得	to emerge (from a comparison); to come out as
來得及	to have enough time; can do it in time; can still make it
來得早不如來得巧	arriving early can't beat coming at the right time; perfect timing
來復槍	rifle (loanword); also written 來福槍|来福枪
來復線	rifling (spiral lines on inside of gun barrel imparting spin to the bullet)
來意	one's purpose in coming
來文	received document; sent document
來日	future days; (literary) the next day; (old) past days
來日方長	the future is long (idiom); there will be ample time for that later
來朝	(literary) tomorrow (morning)
來歷	history; antecedents; origin
來歷不明	(idiom) of unknown origin; of dubious background
來港	to come to Hong Kong
來源	source (of information etc); origin
來源於	to originate in
來潮	(of water) to rise; rising tide; (of women) to get one's period
來火	to get angry
來火兒	to get angry
來無影，去無蹤	lit. come without a shadow, leave without a footprint (idiom); to come and go without a trace
來犯	(of enemy forces) to invade; to attack
來生	next life
來由	reason; cause
來硬的	to get tough; to use force
來示	(polite) your letter
來神	to become spirited
來福槍	rifle (loanword); also written 來復槍|来复枪
來福線	rifling (helical grooves inside the barrel of a gun)
來者不善，善者不來	He who comes is surely ill-intentioned, no-one well-meaning will come (idiom).
來者不拒	to refuse nobody (idiom); all comers welcome
來而不往非禮也	not to reciprocate is against etiquette (classical)
來臨	to approach; to come closer
來自	to come from (a place); From: (in email header)
來華	to come to China
來著	auxiliary showing sth happened in the past
來蘇糖	lyxose (type of sugar)
來襲	to invade; (of a storm etc) to strike; to hit
來訪	to pay a visit
來訪者	visitor; (psychological counseling) client
來講	as to; considering; for
來賓	guest; visitor
來賓市	Laibin, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
來路	incoming road; origin; past history
來路不明	unidentified origin; no-one knows where it comes from
來蹤去跡	(lit.) the traces of a person's movements (idiom)
來電	incoming telephone call (or telegram)
來電答鈴	(Tw) ringback tone (heard by the originator of a telephone call)
來電顯示	caller ID
來項	income
來頭	cause; reason; interest
來鳳縣	Laifeng, a county in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
來鴻	incoming letter (literary)
來鴻去燕	lit. the goose comes, the swallow goes (idiom); fig. always on the move
來龍去脈	(lit.) the rise and fall of the terrain (idiom)
侇	(literary) class; category; (literary) to place; to lay out
侈	extravagant; wasteful; exaggerating
侈談	to prate
侈靡	wasteful; extravagant
侉	foreign accent
侉子	person speaking with a foreign accent
例	example; precedent; rule
例假	(euphemism) menstrual period; (dated euphemism) menstrual leave
例句	example sentence
例外	exception; to be an exception
例外字	exception(s)
例如	for example; for instance; such as
例子	case; (for) instance; example
例會	regular meeting
例湯	soup of the day
例示	to exemplify
例行	routine (task, procedure etc); as usual
例行公事	routine business; usual practice; mere formality
例言	introductory remarks
例語	(lexicography) illustrative phrase; sample word or phrase
例證	example; case in point
例題	problem or question solved for illustrative purposes in the classroom; practice question (used in preparation for an exam); sample question
侍	to serve; to attend upon
侍候	to serve; to wait upon
侍奉	to wait upon; to serve; to attend to sb's needs
侍女	maid
侍妾	concubine
侍弄	to look after; to tend (one's crops, garden, livestock, pets etc)
侍從	to serve (an important personage); attendant; retainer
侍從官	aide-de-camp
侍應	waiter; waitress (abbr. for 侍應生|侍应生[shi4 ying4 sheng1])
侍應生	waiter; waitress
侍立	to stand by in attendance
侍者	attendant; waiter
侍衛	Imperial bodyguard
侍衛官	guard
侍郎	(Ming and Qing dynasties) vice-minister of one of the Six Boards
侏	dwarf
侏儒	person with dwarfism; dwarf
侏儒倉鼠	dwarf hamster
侏儒症	dwarfism
侏羅	Jura mountains of eastern France and extending into Switzerland
侏羅紀	Jurassic (geological period 205-140m years ago)
侏藍仙鶲	(bird species of China) pygmy blue flycatcher (Muscicapella hodgsoni)
侐	still; silent
侑	(literary) to urge sb (to eat or drink)
侔	similar; comparable; equal
侖	to arrange
侗	Dong ethnic group
侗人	people of the Dong ethnic minority
侗劇	Dong opera
侗族	Dong ethnic group
侘	boast; despondent
侚	(literary) quick
供	to provide; to supply; to be for (the use or convenience of)
供不應求	supply does not meet demand
供佛花	flower offering
供品	offering
供大於求	supply exceeds demand
供奉	to consecrate; to enshrine and worship
供應	to supply; to provide (goods, services etc)
供應品	supplies
供應商	supplier
供應室	supply room; (esp. in a hospital) central supply room
供應者	supplier
供應鏈	supply chain
供房	to buy a house on a mortgage; house mortgage
供暖	to supply heating (in a building); heating
供水	to supply water
供求	supply and demand (economics)
供油系統	fuel supply system; lubricating system
供熱	heating (for a building); to supply heating
供物	offering
供狀	written confession
供獻	a contribution
供石	scholar's rock (one of the naturally-eroded, fantastically-shaped rocks put on display indoors or in gardens in China)
供稱	to make a confession (law)
供稿	to contribute (to a magazine etc)
供給	to furnish; to provide; supply (as in supply and demand)
供職	to hold an office or post
供花	flower offering
供血	to donate blood
供血者	blood donor
供詞	confession; statement; Taiwan pr. [gong1ci2]
供認	to confess; confession
供認不諱	to make a full confession; to plead guilty
供貨	to supply goods
供貨商	supplier; vendor
供述	confession
供過於求	supply exceeds demand
供銷	supply and marketing; distribution; supply and sales
供銷商	distribution business; supplier
供電	to supply electricity
供需	supply and demand
供養	to make offerings to (gods or ancestors); Taiwan pr. [gong4yang4]
供體	donor (chemistry, physics, medicine)
侜	to conceal; to cover
依	to depend on; to comply with or listen to sb; according to
依仗	to count on; to rely on
依依	reluctant to part
依依不捨	reluctant to part (idiom); broken-hearted at having to leave
依偎	to nestle against; to snuggle up to
依傍	to rely on; to depend on; to imitate (a model)
依地酸二鈷	kelocyanor
依存	to depend on sth for existence; dependent on
依安縣	Yi'an, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
依屬	dependence
依山傍水	mountains on one side and water on the other
依序	in order; sequentially
依從	to comply with; to obey
依循	to follow; to comply
依戀	to be fondly attached to; to not wish to part with; to cling to
依我來看	as I see it; in my opinion
依我看	in my opinion
依撒依亞	Isaiah (Catholic transliteration)
依撒意亞	Isaiah
依撒格	Issac (name)
依據	according to; basis; foundation
依樣畫葫蘆	lit. to draw a gourd from the model (idiom)
依次	in order; in succession
依法	legal (proceedings); according to law
依法治國	to rule according to the law
依然	still; as before
依然如故	(idiom) back to where we were; absolutely no improvement; things haven't changed at all
依然故我	to be one's old self (idiom); to be unchanged
依照	according to; in light of
依稀	vaguely; dimly; probably
依舊	as before; still; to remain the same
依著	in accordance with
依葫蘆畫瓢	lit. to draw a dipper with a gourd as one's model (idiom)
依蘭縣	Yilan, a county in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
依親	(Tw) to be in the care of one's relatives
依計行事	to act according to plan
依託	to rely on; to depend on; support
依賴	to depend on; to be dependent on
依賴注入	(software engineering) dependency injection
依附	to adhere; to attach oneself to; to append
依雲	Evian, mineral water company
依靠	to rely on; to depend on
依順	to comply
侮	to insult; to ridicule; to disgrace
侮弄	to mock; to bully and insult
侮慢	to humiliate; to bully
侮罵	to scold; to abuse
侮蔑	contempt; to despise
侮辱	to insult; to humiliate; dishonor
侯	marquis, second of the five orders of ancient Chinese nobility 五等爵位[wu3 deng3 jue2 wei4]
侯景之亂	rebellion against Liang of the Southern Dynasties 南朝梁 in 548
侯爵	marquis
侯賽因	Husain or Hussein (name)
侯門	noble house
侯門似海	(lit.) the gate of a noble house is like the sea (idiom)
侯馬市	Houma, a county-level city in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
侴	surname Chou
侵	to invade; to encroach; to infringe
侵佔	to invade and occupy (territory)
侵入	to make (military) incursions; to invade; to intrude into
侵入岩	intrusive rock
侵入性	invasive (e.g. disease or procedure)
侵入者	intruder; invader
侵刪	(Internet slang) if this is an infringement of copyright, please notify me and I will remove it
侵吞	to annex; to swallow (up); to embezzle
侵夜	(literary) nightfall; night
侵害	to encroach on; to infringe on
侵害人	perpetrator
侵徹	(of a projectile) to penetrate (armor etc)
侵擾	to invade and harass
侵晨	towards dawn
侵權	to infringe the rights of; to violate; infringement
侵權行為	tort; infringement (of sb's rights)
侵犯	to infringe on; to encroach on; to violate
侵略	to invade; invasion
侵略戰爭	war of aggression
侵略者	aggressors; invaders
侵略軍	invading army
侵華	to invade China (referring to 19th century imperialist powers and Japan)
侵蝕	to erode; to corrode
侵蝕作用	erosion
侵襲	to invade; to assail; onslaught
侵限	intrusion; perimeter breach
侶	companion
侷	narrow
侷促	cramped; ill at ease
侹	(literary) level and straight
便	used in 便宜[pian2 yi5]; used in 便便[pian2 pian2]
便中	at one's convenience; when it's convenient
便人	sb who happens to be on hand for an errand
便便	poo; to do a poo (kiddie or feminine term)
便函	an informal letter sent by an organization
便利	convenient; easy; to facilitate
便利商店	convenience store (Tw)
便利店	convenience store
便利性	convenience
便利貼	sticky note
便器	toilet; urinal
便士	(loanword) pence; penny
便壺	bed urinal; chamber pot
便嬛	(old) graceful
便宜	cheap; inexpensive; a petty advantage; to let sb off lightly
便宜行事	act at one's discretion; act as one sees fit
便宜貨	a bargain; cheap goods
便宴	informal banquet; dinner party
便帽	cap
便急	to need the toilet; urinary or defecatory urgency
便意	an urge to defecate
便所	(dialect) toilet; privy
便捷	convenient and fast
便捷化	to facilitate; to streamline; to make convenient and fast
便攜	portable; easy to carry
便攜式	portable
便於	easy to; convenient for
便是	(emphasizes that sth is precisely or exactly as stated); precisely
便服	everyday clothes; informal dress; civilian clothes
便服店	(Tw) nightlife venue where hostesses wear their own casual clothes (as opposed to costumes or formalwear)
便桶	chamber pot
便條	(informal) note
便條紙	scrap paper
便橋	temporary bridge
便步走	march at ease; route step
便民	user-friendly; convenient (for customers, citizens etc)
便民利民	(policy jargon) to make life easier and better for the public
便池	urinal
便溺	to urinate or defecate; urine and feces
便當	convenient; handy; easy
便盆	bed pan
便秘	constipation; Taiwan pr. [bian4bi4]
便箋	a note; a memo; notepaper; memo pad
便簽	note; memo
便血	having blood in one's stool
便衣	civilian clothes; plain clothes; plainclothesman
便衣警察	plain-clothed policeman
便裝	casual dress
便覽	brief guide
便車	a lift; a ride
便道	pavement; sidewalk; shortcut
便酌	informal dinner
便門	side door; wicket door
便難	retort with challenging questions; debate
便鞋	cloth shoes; slippers
便飯	an ordinary meal; simple home cooking
俁	big
係	to connect; to relate to; to tie up
係數	coefficient; factor; modulus
促	(bound form) of short duration; hasty; rapid
促使	to prompt; to induce; to spur
促動	to motivate
促弦	to tighten the strings (of a musical instrument)
促成	to facilitate; to help bring about
促求	to urge
促狹	(coll.) teasing; mischievous; (coll.) cunning; sly
促狹鬼	mischievous fellow; rascal
促織	cricket (insect)
促聲	entering tone (synonym of 入聲|入声[ru4 sheng1])
促膝	to sit knee to knee
促膝談心	(idiom) to sit side-by-side and have a heart-to-heart talk
促請	to urge
促退	to hinder progress
促進	to promote (an idea or cause); to advance; boost
促銷	to promote sales
俄	Russia; Russian; abbr. for 俄羅斯|俄罗斯[E2 luo2 si1]
俄中	Russia-China
俄中朝	Russia, China and North Korea
俄亥俄	Ohio
俄亥俄州	Ohio
俄備得	Obed (son of Boaz and Ruth)
俄克拉何馬	Oklahoma, US state
俄克拉何馬城	Oklahoma City
俄勒岡	Oregon
俄勒岡州	Oregon
俄國	Russia
俄國人	Russian (person)
俄塔社	Information Telegraph Agency of Russia (ITAR-TASS), Russian news agency
俄巴底亞書	Book of Obadiah
俄文	Russian language
俄期	abbr. for 俄狄浦斯期[e2 di2 pu3 si1 qi1], oedipal phase
俄烏	Russo-Ukrainian
俄狄浦斯	Oedipus, hero of the tragedy Oedipus Rex by Athenian dramatist Sophocles
俄狄浦斯情結	Oedipus complex
俄狄浦斯期	oedipal phase (psychology)
俄羅斯	Russia
俄羅斯人	Russian (person)
俄羅斯帝國	Russian empire (1546-1917)
俄羅斯方塊	Tetris (video game)
俄羅斯族	Russian ethnic minority in China
俄羅斯聯邦	Russian Federation, RSFSR
俄羅斯輪盤	Russian roulette
俄而	(literary) very soon; before long
俄聯邦	the Russian Federation
俄語	Russian (language)
俄軍	Russian army
俄頃	in a moment; presently
俅	ornamental cap
俉	used in 逢俉[feng2 wu2]
俊	(dialectal pronunciation of 俊[jun4]); cool; neat
俊俏	attractive and intelligent; charming; elegant
俊傑	elite; outstanding talent; genius
俊拔	outstandingly talented
俊秀	well-favored; elegant; pretty
俊美	pretty; handsome
俊雅	(literary) elegant; graceful; refined
俍	(literary) to be good at; to be expert in
俎	a stand for food at sacrifice
俏	good-looking; charming; (of goods) in great demand
俏皮	smart; charming; attractive
俏皮話	witticism; wisecrack; sarcastic remark
俏美	charming; pretty
俏貨	goods that sell well
俏麗	handsome; pretty
俐	used in 伶俐[ling2 li4]
俑	wooden figures buried with the dead
俑坑	pit with funerary figures; pit containing terracotta warriors
俓	(literary) to pass through; straight; path
俔	(old) like; as
俗	custom; convention; popular
俗不可耐	intolerably vulgar
俗世	the mundane world; the world of mortals
俗世奇人	Extraordinary people in our ordinary world, short stories by novelist Feng Jicai 馮驥才|冯骥才[Feng2 Ji4 cai2]
俗事	everyday routine; ordinary affairs
俗人	common people; laity (i.e. not priests)
俗名	vernacular name; lay name (of a priest)
俗套	conventional patterns; cliché
俗字	nonstandard form of a Chinese character
俗家	layman; layperson; original home of a monk
俗氣	tacky; inelegant; in poor taste
俗濫	clichéd; tacky
俗稱	commonly referred to as; common term
俗話	common saying; proverb
俗話說	as the proverb says; as they say...
俗語	common saying; proverb; colloquial speech
俗諺	common saying; proverb
俗諺口碑	common sayings (idiom); widely circulated proverbs
俗辣	(slang) (Tw) coward; paper tiger; a nobody (from Taiwanese 卒仔, Tai-lo pr. [tsut-á])
俗隨時變	customs change with time (idiom); other times, other manners
俗體字	nonstandard form of a Chinese character
俘	to take prisoner; prisoner of war
俘獲	to capture (enemy property or personnel)
俘虜	to take prisoner; a captive (usu. a prisoner of war)
俚	old name for the 黎[Li2] ethnic group
俚語	slang
俚諺	common saying; folk proverb
俛	to exhort
俜	used in 伶俜[ling2 ping1]
保	to defend; to protect; to keep; to guarantee; to ensure
保不住	cannot maintain (sth); unable to keep; more likely than not
保不定	more likely than not; quite possible; on the cards
保不齊	more likely than not; quite possible; on the cards
保亭	Baoting Li and Miao autonomous county, Hainan
保亭縣	Baoting Li and Miao autonomous county, Hainan
保亭黎族苗族自治縣	Baoting Li and Miao autonomous county, Hainan
保人	guarantor; person paying bail
保住	to preserve; to save
保佑	to bless and protect; blessing
保修	to promise to keep sth in good repair; guarantee; warranty
保修期	guarantee period; warranty period
保值	to preserve value; to protect against depreciation
保健	health protection; health care; to maintain in good health
保健操	health exercises
保全	to save from damage; to preserve; to maintain
保全員	(Tw) security guard
保八	to maintain an 8% annual growth rate of the GDP (PRC policy)
保准	to guarantee; reliable; for sure
保利科技	Poly Technologies, Chinese defense company
保力龍	polystyrene
保加利亞	Bulgaria
保呈	document guaranteeing the words or actions of a third party (old)
保命	to preserve one's life; to ensure one's survival
保單	guarantee slip
保固	to undertake to rectify any deficiencies in the quality of a building, product or service
保墒	preservation of soil moisture
保外就醫	to release for medical treatment (of a prisoner)
保姆	nanny; babysitter; housekeeper
保媒	to act as go-between (between prospective marriage partners etc)
保存	to conserve; to preserve; to keep; to store; (computing) to save (a file etc)
保守	conservative; to guard; to keep
保守主義	conservatism
保守派	conservative faction
保守黨	conservative political parties
保安	to ensure public security
保安人員	security personnel; member of police force
保安團	peace keeping group
保安族	Bonan ethnic group
保安部隊	security forces
保定市	Baoding, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
保家衛國	guard home, defend the country (idiom); national defense
保密	to keep sth confidential; to maintain secrecy
保密協議	non-disclosure agreement; confidentiality agreement
保密性	secrecy
保山市	Baoshan, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
保底	to break even; to guarantee a minimum (salary etc)
保康縣	Baokang, a county in Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
保德縣	Baode, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
保惠師	(Christianity) Paraclete
保戶	insurance policy holder
保持	to keep; to maintain; to hold
保持器	(orthodontics) retainer
保時捷	Porsche (car company)
保暖	to keep warm
保暖內衣	thermal underwear
保有	to keep; to retain
保本	to break even
保殘守缺	conservative; to preserve the outmoded
保溫	to keep hot; heat preservation
保溫杯	thermal insulation cup (or bottle)
保溫瓶	thermos
保潔	sanitation
保潔箱	litter-bin
保濕	to moisturize; moisturizing
保爾	Paul (name)
保爾森	Paulson or Powellson (name)
保甲	historical communal administrative and self-defence system created during the Song Dynasty and revived during the Republican Era, in which households are grouped in jia 甲[jia3] and jia are grouped in bao 保[bao3]
保留	to keep; to retain; to have reservations (about sth)
保留價	reserve price (in an auction); (economics) reservation price
保留劇目	repertory; repertoire; repertory item
保留區	reservation (for an ethnic minority)
保皇黨	royalists
保監會	China Insurance Regulatory Commission (CIRC), abbr. for 中國保險監督管理委員會|中国保险监督管理委员会[Zhong1 guo2 Bao3 xian3 Jian1 du1 Guan3 li3 Wei3 yuan2 hui4]
保真度	fidelity
保研	to recommend sb for postgraduate studies
保祐	to bless and protect; blessing; also written 保佑[bao3 you4]
保稅	bonded (goods, factory etc)
保稅區	duty-free district; tariff-free zone; bonded area
保種	(agriculture) to preserve a plant variety or animal breed
保管	to hold in safekeeping; to have in one's care; to guarantee
保管員	custodian; storeroom clerk
保管箱	safe deposit box; safe
保級	(sports) to avoid relegation to a lower division
保羅	Paul
保育	to look after (children); childcare
保育箱	incubator (for newborns)
保育院	orphanage; nursery
保胎	to take measures to prevent miscarriage
保苗	to protect young plants, ensuring that enough survive to produce a good crop
保藏	to keep in store; to preserve
保衛	to defend; to safeguard
保衛祖國	to defend one's country
保角	(math.) angle-preserving; conformal
保角對應	(math.) distance-preserving correspondence; conformal map
保語	Bulgarian language
保證	guarantee; to guarantee; to ensure
保證人	guarantor; bailor
保證金	earnest money; cash deposit; bail
保護	to protect; to defend; to safeguard
保護主義	protectionism
保護人	guardian; carer; patron
保護傘	protective umbrella; fig. person affording protection (esp. corrupt)
保護劑	protective agent
保護區	conservation district
保護國	protectorate
保護性	protective
保護模式	protected mode
保護神	patron saint; guardian angel
保護者	protector
保護色	protective coloration; camouflage
保費	insurance premium
保質期	shelf life; expiration date
保送	to recommend (for admission to school)
保釋	to release on bail; to bail
保重	to take care of oneself
保鏢	bodyguard
保長	head of a bao 保[bao3] in the baojia 保甲[bao3 jia3] system
保長對應	(math.) distance-preserving correspondence; isometry
保障	to ensure; to guarantee; to safeguard
保障監督	safeguards
保險	insurance; to insure; safe
保險人	insurer
保險單	insurance policy (document)
保險套	condom
保險槓	car bumper
保險櫃	a safe; strongbox
保險燈	kerosene lamp
保險盒	fuse box
保險箱	safe deposit box; safe
保險絲	fuse wire; (electrical) fuse
保險費	insurance fee
保靖縣	Baojing, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
保養	to take good care of (or conserve) one's health
保養品	(Tw) beauty product; skincare product
保駕	(in former times) to escort the emperor (or other important personage)
保駕護航	(idiom) to safeguard (sth); to protect (sth)
保鮮	to keep fresh; to preserve freshness
保鮮期	shelf life; freshness date
保鮮紙	plastic wrap; cling wrap; cling film
保鮮膜	plastic wrap; preservative film; cling film
保麗龍	styrofoam
保齡球	ten-pin bowling (loanword); bowling ball
俞	yes (used by Emperor or ruler); OK; to accede
俞天白	Yu Tianbai (1937-), novelist
俞文豹	Yu Wenbao (lived around 1240), prolific Song dynasty poet
俞正聲	Yu Zhengsheng (1945-), PRC politician
俞穴	acupuncture point
俟	(literary) to wait for
俟候	to wait (literary)
俠	knight-errant; brave and chivalrous; hero
俠士	knight-errant
俠客	chivalrous person; knight-errant
俠氣	chivalry
俠盜獵車手	Grand Theft Auto (video game series)
俠盜飛車	Grand Theft Auto (video game series)
俠義	chivalrous; chivalry; knight-errantry
信	letter; mail; to trust
信不過	to distrust; to be suspicious
信令	signaling (engineering)
信以為真	to take sth to be true
信仰	to believe in (a religion); firm belief; conviction
信仰者	believer
信件	letter (sent by mail)
信任	to trust; to have confidence in
信佛	to believe in Buddhism
信使	messenger; courier
信使核糖核酸	messenger RNA, mRNA
信函	letter; piece of correspondence (incl. email)
信口	to blurt sth out; to open one's mouth without thinking
信口胡說	to speak without thinking; to blurt sth out
信口開河	to speak without thinking (idiom); to blurt sth out
信口雌黃	to speak off the cuff; to casually opine
信噪比	signal-to-noise ratio
信報	abbr. for 信報財經新聞|信报财经新闻, Hong Kong Economic Journal
信報財經新聞	Hong Kong Economic Journal
信天游	a style of folk music of Shaanxi
信天翁	albatross (family Diomedeidae)
信奉	belief; to believe (in sth)
信守	to abide by; to keep (promises etc)
信宜市	Xinyi, a county-level city in Maoming City 茂名市[Mao4 ming2 Shi4], Guangdong
信宿	(ancient) to lodge for two nights
信實	trustworthy; reliable; to believe something to be true
信封	envelope
信州區	Xinzhou, a district of Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
信差	messenger
信徒	believer
信得過	trustworthy; reliable
信從	to trust and obey
信德省	Sindh province of Pakistan
信心	confidence; faith (in sb or sth)
信心百倍	brimming with confidence (idiom)
信念	faith; belief; conviction
信息	information; news; message
信息化	informatization (the Information Age analog of industrialization)
信息圖	infographic
信息圖形	infographic
信息學	information science
信息差	information asymmetry; information gap (esp. a difference in access to information that can be exploited for profit)
信息技術	information technology; IT
信息時代	information age
信息管理	information management
信息系統	information system
信息素	pheromone
信息繭房	(Internet) echo chamber; filter bubble
信息與通訊技術	information and communication technology, ICT
信息論	information theory
信意	at will; arbitrarily; just as one feels like
信手	casually; in passing
信教	religious belief; to practice a faith; to be religious
信服	to have faith in; to believe in; to have confidence in
信札	letter
信條	creed; article of faith
信標	a signal
信步	to stroll; to saunter
信然	indeed; really
信物	keepsake; token
信用	trustworthiness; (commerce) credit; (literary) to trust and appoint
信用卡	credit card
信用危機	credit crisis
信用社	credit union
信用等級	credit level
信用觀察	credit watch
信用評等	credit rating
信用評級	credit rating
信用證	letter of credit
信用證券	instrument of credit; letter of credit
信用額	credit limit
信用風險	credit risk
信眾	believers; worshippers
信神者	a believer
信筆	to write freely; to express oneself as one pleases
信筒	mailbox; postbox
信箋	letter; letter paper
信管	a fuse (for explosive charge); detonator
信箱	mailbox; post office box
信紙	letter paper; writing paper
信經	Credo (section of Catholic mass)
信義	good faith; honor; trust and justice
信義區	Xinyi or Hsinyi District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
信號	signal
信號燈	signal light; car indicator
信號臺	signal station
信號處理	signal processing
信託	to entrust; trust bond (finance)
信訪	to make a complaint or a suggestion to the authorities by letter or by paying a visit
信訪局	governmental ombudsman office, existing at the county-level and above
信誓旦旦	to make a solemn vow
信譽	prestige; distinction; reputation
信豐縣	Xinfeng, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
信貸	credit; borrowed money
信貸危機	credit crisis
信貸衍生產品	credit derivative (in finance)
信貸違約掉期	credit default swap (finance)
信賴	to trust; to have confidence in; to have faith in
信賴區間	(statistics) confidence interval
信道	(telecommunications) channel
信都區	Xindu, a district of Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
信陽市	Xinyang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
信靠	trust
信風	trade wind
信鴿	homing pigeon; carrier pigeon
修	to decorate; to embellish; to repair
修仙	to cultivate oneself in pursuit of immortality (esp. in Daoism)
修例	to amend an ordinance (abbr. for 修改條例|修改条例[xiu1 gai3 tiao2 li4])
修剪	to prune; to trim
修圖	to retouch images; image retouching
修士	member of religious order; frater
修女	nun or sister (of the Roman Catholic or Greek Orthodox churches)
修好	to repair (sth broken); to restore (sth damaged)
修建	to build; to construct
修復	to restore; to renovate; (computing) to repair (a corrupted file etc)
修心養性	to cultivate the heart and nurture the character (idiom); to improve oneself by meditation
修憲	to amend the constitution
修成正果	to achieve Buddhahood through one's efforts and insight
修手	manicure
修指甲	manicure
修撰	to compile; to compose
修改	to amend; to alter; to modify
修改稿	revised draft; new version (of a document)
修整	to spruce up; to renovate; to tend (a garden); to groom (one's hair); to finish (a rough surface); to trim (a lawn); to touch up (a photo)
修文縣	Xiuwen, a county in Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
修昔底德	Thucydides (c. 455–c. 400 BC), Greek historian and author of History of the Peloponnesian War
修昔底德陷阱	Thucydides Trap (theory that war may result when a rising power threatens to displace an established power)
修會	religious order
修業	to study at school
修正	to revise; to amend; to rectify
修正主義	revisionism
修正案	amendment; revised draft
修正液	correction fluid
修武縣	Xiuwu, a county in Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
修水利	to build or repair water conservancy infrastructure (e.g. canals, reservoirs etc)
修水縣	Xiushui, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
修法	to amend a law
修煉	(of Taoists) to practice austerities; to practice asceticism
修理	to repair; to fix; to prune
修理廠	repair shop
修真	to practice Taoism; to cultivate the true self through spiritual exercises
修睦	to cultivate friendship with neighbors
修禊	to hold a semiannual ceremony of purification
修築	to build
修編	to revise
修練	to practice (an activity); to perform
修繕	to renovate; to repair (a building)
修羅	(Indian mythology) Asuras – powerful, malevolent beings who oppose the gods
修羅場	(Indian mythology) battlefield where Asuras 修羅|修罗[xiu1 luo2] fought the gods; (fig.) a scene of cruelty and carnage; (slang) emotionally charged confrontation (esp. one involving a love triangle)
修習	to study; to practice
修腳	pedicure
修腳師	pedicurist
修葺	to repair; to renovate
修行	to devote oneself to spiritual development (esp. Buddhism or Daoism)
修行人	person pursuing religious practice (Buddhism)
修補	to mend
修補匠	tinker
修規	construction plan
修訂	to revise
修訂本	revised edition (of a book)
修訂歷史	revision history (of a document, web page etc)
修訂版	revised edition; revised version
修課	to take a course
修讀	to study (in an academic program); to pursue (a degree)
修路	to repair a road
修身	to cultivate one's moral character; (fashion) slim-fit; body-hugging
修車	to repair a bike (car etc)
修辭	rhetoric
修辭學	rhetoric
修辭格	figure of speech
修造	to build; to repair
修造廠	repair workshop (for machinery, vehicles etc)
修道	to practice Daoism
修道士	friar; frater
修道會	order (of monks)
修道院	monastery; convent
修長	slender; lanky; tall and thin
修阻	(literary) long and arduous (road)
修院	seminary (Christian college)
修面	to have a shave; to enhance the appearance of the face
修鞋匠	a cobbler
修音	voicing (adjustment of timbre, loudness etc of organ or other musical instrument)
修飾	to decorate; to adorn; to dress up
修飾話	modifier (grammar)
修飾語	(grammar) modifier; qualifier; adjunct
修養	accomplishment; training; self-cultivation
修齊	to make level; to make even; to trim
俯	to look down; to stoop
俯仰	lowering and raising of the head; (fig.) small move
俯仰之間	in a flash
俯仰無愧	to have a clear conscience
俯伏	to lie prostrate
俯就	to deign; to condescend; to yield to (entreaties)
俯拾皆是	lit. so numerous that one could just bend down and pick them up (idiom)
俯看	to look down at
俯瞰	to look down at (from a high vantage point)
俯瞰圖	bird's-eye view
俯瞰攝影	crane shot; boom shot (photography)
俯臥	to lie prone
俯臥撐	push-up; press-up (exercise)
俯衝	to dive down fast; to swoop down
俯視	to overlook; to look down at
俯角	(math.) angle of depression
俯身	to lean over; to bend over; to stoop
俯首	to bend one's head
俯首帖耳	bowed head and ears glued (idiom); docile and obedient
俯首稱臣	to bow before (idiom); to capitulate
俱	(literary) all; both; entirely; without exception
俱佳	excellent; wonderful
俱全	to have all of the elements mentioned (features, qualities, items etc)
俱樂部	(loanword) club (the organization or its premises)
俱舍宗	Kusha-shū (Japanese Buddhism school)
俳	(literary) comic performance; jesting
俳優	(historical) comic entertainer; court entertainer
俳句	haiku (Japanese poetic form)
俳諧	(literary) humorous; facetious
俴	short; shallow; thin plate
俵	(literary) to distribute; Taiwan pr. [biao3]
俶	to begin
俷	(literary) to violate (a moral code)
俸	(bound form) salary; stipend
俸恤	payment and pension
俸祿	official's salary (in feudal times)
俸給	pay; salary
俸銀	official salary
俸錢	salary
俺	(dialect) I; me; my
俺們	(dialect) we; us; our
俾	to cause; to enable; phonetic bi
俾使	in order that; so that; so as to
俾倪	parapet; to look askance
俾利	to facilitate; thus making easier
俾夜作晝	lit. to make night as day (idiom); fig. to burn the midnight oil
俾斯麥	Bismarck (name)
俾晝作夜	to make day as night (idiom, from Book of Songs); fig. to prolong one's pleasure regardless of the hour
俾格米	Pygmy
俾路支	Balochi (ethnic group of Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan)
俾路支省	Balochistan (Pakistan)
倀	(bound form) ghost of sb devoured by a tiger who helps the tiger devour others
倀鬼	ghost of sb devoured by a tiger who helps the tiger devour others
倃	to malign; to slander
倅	auxiliary; spare; deputy
倆	two (colloquial equivalent of 兩個|两个); both; some
倆錢	two bits; a small amount of money
倉	barn; granary; storehouse
倉位	(logistics) storage location; place to store goods; (finance) position
倉促	all of a sudden; hurriedly
倉儲	to store in a warehouse
倉山區	Cangshan, a district of Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
倉庚	black-naped oriole (Oriolus chinensis)
倉庫	depot; storehouse; warehouse
倉廩	(literary) granary
倉敷	Kurashiki (city in Japan)
倉皇	in a panic; flurried
倉皇出逃	to run off in a great panic (idiom)
倉皇失措	flustered; ruffled; disconcerted
倉頡	Cang Jie, legendary scribe of the Yellow Emperor and inventor of Chinese writing
倉鼠	hamster
個	(classifier used before a noun that has no specific classifier)
個中	therein; in this
個中人	a person in the know
個人	an individual; oneself; (attributive) personal; one's own
個人主義	individualism
個人傷害	personal injury
個人儲蓄	personal savings
個人崇拜	personality cult
個人所得稅	personal income tax
個人數字助理	personal digital assistant (PDA)
個人賽	individual competition; individual race
個人隱私	personal privacy; private matters
個人電腦	personal computer; PC
個位	the units place (or column) in the decimal system
個例	specific example; rare instance
個個	each one individually; each and every
個兒	size; height; stature
個別	individually; one by one; just one or two; exceptional; rare
個子	stature; height; size (of a person or object)
個展	a one-person exhibition
個性	individuality; personality
個性化	to personalize; to customize; customization
個把	(coll.) about one; one or so
個數	number of items or individuals
個案	individual case; special case
個稅	personal income tax (abbr. for 個人所得稅|个人所得税)
個股	share (in a listed company)
個舊市	Gejiu, a county-level city in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
個護	personal care (abbr. for 個人護理|个人护理[ge4 ren2 hu4 li3])
個貸	personal loan (abbr. for 個人貸款|个人贷款[ge4 ren2 dai4 kuan3])
個資	(Tw) personal information (abbr. for 個人資料|个人资料[ge4 ren2 zi1 liao4])
個頂個	(dialect) each one; every one
個頭	(coll.) my ass!; yeah, right! (used to mock a claim sb just made, as in 專家個頭|专家个头[zhuan1 jia1 ge5 tou2] "expert", my ass!)
個頭兒	size; height; stature
個體	an individual
個體戶	self-employed; a private firm (PRC usage)
個體經濟學	(Tw) microeconomics
倌	keeper of domestic animals; herdsman
倍	(two, three etc) -fold; times (multiplier); double
倍兒	(coll.) very; really
倍兒棒	(dialect) awesome; excellent
倍增	to double; to redouble; to increase many times over
倍增器	multiplier
倍感	to feel even more (lonely etc); to be extremely (sad, delighted etc)
倍數	multiple; multiplier; factor
倍率	(optics) magnifying power
倍足綱	Diplopoda (zoology)
倍足類	Diplopoda (arthropod class with a pair of legs on each segment, including centipedes and millipedes)
倍速	sped-up (playback)
倍頻器	frequency multiplier
倏	sudden; abrupt; Taiwan pr. [shu4]
倏地	swiftly; suddenly
倏忽	(literary) suddenly
倏然	(literary) suddenly
們	plural marker for pronouns, and nouns referring to individuals
倒	to fall; to collapse; to lie horizontally; to fail; to go bankrupt
倒下	to collapse; to topple over
倒伏	(of cereal crops) to collapse and lie flat
倒休	to shift holidays, taking a weekday off
倒位	inversion
倒倉	to transfer grain from a store (e.g. to sun it)
倒像	(optics) inverted image
倒刺	barb; barbed tip (e.g. of fishhook)
倒反	instead; on the contrary; contrary (to expectations)
倒反天綱	to violate the natural order; to defy social norms
倒吊蠟燭	Wrightia tinctoria (flowering plant in Apocynaceae family, common names dyer's oleander or pala indigo)
倒吸一口涼氣	to gasp (with amazement or shock etc)
倒嗓	(of a singer) to lose one's voice
倒噍	to ruminate (of cows)
倒嚼	(of cows) to ruminate
倒地	to fall to the ground
倒坍	to collapse (of building)
倒塌	to collapse (of building); to topple over
倒寫	mirror writing; upside down writing
倒帶	rewind (media player)
倒序	reverse order; inverted order
倒座兒	the north-facing room opposite the master's in a siheyuan 四合院[si4 he2 yuan4]
倒弄	to move (things around); to buy and sell at a profit (derog.)
倒彩	adverse audience reaction: boos and jeers, hissing, catcalls or deliberate applause after a mistake
倒彩聲	jeering; booing; catcalls
倒影	inverted image; reversed image (e.g. upside down)
倒懸	lit. to hang upside down; fig. in dire straits
倒懸之危	lit. the crisis of being hanged upside down (idiom); fig. extremely critical situation
倒懸之急	lit. the crisis of being hanged upside down (idiom); fig. extremely critical situation
倒懸之苦	lit. the pain of being hanged upside down (idiom); fig. extremely critical situation
倒戈	to change sides in a war; turncoat
倒戈卸甲	to lay down arms
倒扁	Taiwan political movement aimed at forcing the resignation of President Chen Shui-bian 陳水扁|陈水扁[Chen2 Shui3 bian3] in 2006 over corruption allegations
倒手	to shift from one hand to the other; to change hands (of merchandise)
倒打一耙	lit. to strike with a muckrake (idiom), cf Pigsy 豬八戒|猪八戒 in Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记; fig. to counterattack
倒把	to play the market; to speculate (on financial markets); to profiteer
倒抽一口氣	to gasp (in surprise, dismay, fright etc)
倒持泰阿	(lit.) to present the handle of a sword to another (idiom)
倒掛	lit. to hang upside down
倒插門	(of the husband) to marry into and live with the wife's family (inverting traditional Chinese expectations)
倒換	to take turns; to rotate (responsibility)
倒放	to place upside down; to play (a video) backwards
倒敗	to collapse (of building)
倒敘	to start a narrative at the end (or midway), then proceed chronologically from the beginning
倒數	to count backwards (from 10 down to 0); to count down
倒斃	to fall dead
倒映	to reflect (producing an inverted image)
倒春寒	cold snap during the spring
倒是	contrary to what one might expect; actually; contrariwise
倒時差	to adjust to a different time zone
倒替	to take turns (responsibility); to replace
倒木	fallen tree
倒果為因	to reverse cause and effect; to put the horse before the cart
倒栽蔥	to fall headlong; (fig.) to suffer an ignominious failure
倒槽	to die out (of livestock)
倒流	to flow backwards; reverse flow
倒灌	to flow backwards (of water, because of flood, tide, wind etc)
倒灶	to fall (from power); in decline; unlucky
倒煙	to have smoke billowing from a fireplace or stove (due to a blockage in the chimney)
倒爺	(coll.) a profiteer; (business) wheeler-dealer
倒片	(cinema) to rewind (a reel); (photography) to rewind (a roll of film)
倒班	to change shifts; to work in turns
倒相	phase reversal; phase inversion
倒睫	trichiasis (ingrown eyelashes)
倒空	to empty (a bag); to turn inside out; to turn out
倒立	a handstand; to turn upside down; to stand on one's head
倒立像	inverted image; reversed image (e.g. upside down)
倒糞	to turn over manure
倒置	to invert
倒胃口	to spoil one's appetite; fig. to get fed up with sth
倒背如流	to know by heart (so well that you can recite it backwards)
倒背手	with one's hands behind one's back
倒臥	to lie down; to drop dead
倒臺	to fall from power; to collapse; downfall
倒苦水	to pour out one's grievances
倒茬	rotation of crops
倒著	backwards; in reverse; upside down
倒蛋	mischief; to make trouble
倒血霉	to have rotten luck (stronger version of 倒霉[dao3 mei2])
倒行逆施	to go against the tide (idiom); to do things all wrong
倒裝	(linguistics) to invert (word order)
倒裝句	(linguistics) inverted sentence
倒角	chamfer; bevel
倒計時	to count down; countdown
倒買倒賣	to buy and sell at a profit; to speculate
倒貼	to lose money instead of being paid (i.e. sb should pay me, but is actually taking my money)
倒賠	to sustain loss in trade
倒賣	to resell at a profit; to speculate
倒賬	unrecoverable debt; bad debt; to evade debt
倒車	to reverse (a vehicle); to drive backwards
倒車擋	reverse gear
倒轉	to make an about-turn; to reverse one's direction, policy, sequence etc; to turn things on their head
倒退	to fall back; to go in reverse
倒逼	(neologism c. 2006) (of circumstances) to stimulate (change, esp. innovation, reform etc)
倒運	to have bad luck
倒過兒	the wrong way round (back to front, inside out etc)
倒鉤	barb; (football) bicycle kick; overhead kick
倒鎖	locked in (with the door locked from the outside)
倒閉	to go bankrupt; to close down
倒開	to reverse a vehicle; to drive backwards
倒陽	(med.) to be impotent
倒霉	to have bad luck; to be out of luck
倒霉蛋	(coll.) poor devil; unfortunate man
倒頭	to lie down; to die
倒騰	to move; to shift; to exchange
倓	quiet; peaceful
倔	used in 倔強|倔强[jue2 jiang4]
倔強	stubborn; obstinate; unbending
倔頭	a surly, irascible person
倖	trusted; intimate; (of the emperor) to visit
倖免	to avoid (an unpleasant fate)
倖存	to survive (a disaster)
倖存者	survivor
倘	used in 倘佯[chang2 yang2]
倘如	if
倘或	if; supposing that
倘然	if; supposing that; leisurely
倘能如此	if this can be done
倘若	if; supposing; in case
候	to wait; to inquire after; to watch
候乘	to wait for a train or bus
候任	-elect; designate; (i.e. elected or appointed but not yet installed)
候命	to await orders; to be on call
候場	(of an actor, athlete etc) to prepare to make one's entrance
候審	awaiting trial
候機廳	airport lounge
候機樓	airport terminal
候缺	waiting for a vacancy
候蟲	seasonal insect (e.g. cicada)
候補	to wait to fill a vacancy; reserve (candidate); alternate
候補名單	waiting list
候診	waiting to see a doctor; awaiting treatment
候診室	waiting room (at clinic, hospital)
候車	to wait for a train or bus
候車亭	bus shelter
候車室	waiting room (for train, bus etc)
候選	candidate (attributive)
候選人	candidate
候風地動儀	the world's first seismograph invented by Zhang Heng 張衡|张衡[Zhang1 Heng2] in 132
候駕	to await (your) gracious presence
候鳥	migratory bird
倚	to lean on; to rely upon
倚仗	to lean on; to rely on
倚天屠龍記	Heaven Sword and Dragon Saber, wuxia (武俠|武侠[wu3 xia2], martial arts chivalry) novel by Jin Yong 金庸[Jin1 Yong1] and its screen adaptations
倚托	to rely upon
倚老賣老	(idiom) to flaunt one's seniority; to rely on one's age or length of experience to control or belittle others
倚賴	to rely on; to be dependent on
倚重	to rely heavily upon
倚靠	to lean on; to rest against; to rely on
倜	used in 倜儻|倜傥[ti4 tang3]
倜儻	(literary) (of a man) dashing; suave; free-spirited
倝	dawn (archaic)
倞	distant; to seek; bright
借	to borrow; (used in combination with 給|给[gei3] or 出[chu1] etc) to lend
借一步	could I have a word with you? (in private)
借代	metonymy
借以	so as to; for the purpose of; in order to
借位	in arithmetic of subtraction, to borrow 10 and carry from the next place
借住	to lodge
借債	to borrow money
借債人	debtor; borrower
借光	excuse me (i.e. let me through, please); reflected glory
借入方	borrower; debit side (of a balance sheet)
借出	to lend
借刀殺人	to lend sb a knife to kill sb; to get sb else to do one's dirty work
借助	to draw support from; with the help of
借勢	to borrow sb's authority; to seize an opportunity
借取	to borrow
借口	to use as an excuse; excuse; pretext
借古喻今	to borrow the past as a model for the present
借古諷今	to use the past to disparage the present (idiom)
借命	to live out a pointless existence
借問	(honorific) May I ask?
借單	receipt for a loan; written confirmation of a debt; IOU
借單兒	receipt for a loan; written confirmation of a debt; IOU
借喻	to use sth as a metaphor
借契	contract for a loan
借字兒	IOU; receipt for a loan
借宿	to stay with sb; to ask for lodging
借屍還魂	lit. reincarnated in sb else's body (idiom); fig. a discarded or discredited idea returns in another guise
借指	to refer to; metaphor
借據	receipt for a loan
借支	to get an advance on one's pay
借故	to find an excuse
借方	borrower; debit side (of a balance sheet)
借方差額	debit balance (accountancy)
借書單	book slip
借書證	library card
借東風	lit. to use the eastern wind (idiom); fig. to use sb's help
借條	receipt for a loan; IOU
借機	to seize the opportunity
借款	to lend money; to borrow money; loan
借款人	the borrower
借殼	(finance) to acquire a company as a shell
借火	to borrow a light (for a cigarette)
借用	to borrow sth for another use; to borrow an idea for one's own use
借端	to use as pretext
借箸	lit. to borrow chopsticks; to make plans for sb else
借給	to lend to sb
借腹生子	surrogate pregnancy
借花獻佛	lit. presenting the Buddha with borrowed flowers (idiom); fig. to win favor or influence using sb else's property
借記	to debit
借記卡	debit card
借詞	loanword; pretext
借調	to temporarily transfer (personnel)
借譯	loan translation; to calque
借譯詞	calque
借讀	to attend school on a temporary basis
借貸	to borrow or lend money; debit and credit items on a balance sheet
借賬	to borrow money; to take a loan
借過	excuse me (i.e. let me through, please)
借酒澆愁	(idiom) to drown one's sorrows
借重	to rely on sb for support
借錢	to borrow money; to lend money
借鏡	(Tw) to draw on (others' experience)
借鑒	to draw on (others' experience); to learn from (how others do things)
借閱	to borrow books to read
借題發揮	to use the current topic to put over one's own ideas
倡	to initiate; to instigate; to introduce
倡始	to initiate
倡導	to advocate; to initiate; to propose
倡導者	proponent; advocate; pioneer
倡言	to propose; to put forward (an idea); to initiate
倡言者	proposer
倡議	to suggest; to initiate; proposal
倡議書	written proposal; document outlining an initiative
倢	handsome
倥	ignorant; blank-minded
倥侗	ignorant; unenlightened
倥傯	pressing; urgent; poverty-stricken
倦	tired; weary; fatigued
倦容	a weary look (on one's face)
倦怠	worn out; exhausted; dispirited
倨	(literary) haughty; arrogant
倨傲	arrogant
倩	pretty; winsome; to ask for sb's help
倩影	beautiful image of a woman
倩碧	Clinique (brand)
倩裝	beautiful attire
倪	(literary) small child; (literary) limit; bound; extremity
倪匡	Ni Kuang (1935–2022), Chinese novelist and screenwriter
倪嗣沖	Ni Sichong (1868-1924), general closely linked to Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3] during his unsuccessful 1915 bid for Empire
倪柝聲	Ni Tuosheng or Watchman Nee (1903-1972), influential Chinese Christian
倪桂珍	Ni Guizhen or Ni Kwei-Tseng (1869 - 1931), mother of Song Ailing 宋藹齡|宋蔼龄[Song4 Ai3 ling2], Song Qingling 宋慶齡|宋庆龄[Song4 Qing4 ling2] and Song Meiling 宋美齡|宋美龄[Song4 Mei3 ling2]
倫	human relationship; order; coherence
倫巴	(loanword) rhumba
倫常	proper human relationships
倫敦	London, capital of United Kingdom
倫敦國際金融期貨交易所	London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange (LIFFE)
倫敦大學亞非學院	London University School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS)
倫敦大學學院	University College, London
倫敦證券交易所	London Stock Exchange (LSE)
倫理	ethics
倫理學	ethics
倫理觀	one's perspective on what constitutes ethical behavior
倫琴	Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen (1845-1923), German mechanical engineer
倫琴射線	X-ray; Röntgen or Roentgen ray
倬	noticeable; large; clear
倭	dwarf; Japanese (derog.) (old)
倭人	dwarf; (old) (derog.) Japanese person
倭寇	Japanese pirates (in 16th and 17th century)
倭瓜	(dialect) pumpkin
倭軍	Japanese army (derog.) (old)
倭馬亞王朝	Umayyad Empire (661-750, in Iberia -1031), successor of the Rashidun caliphate
倭黑猩猩	bonobo; pygmy chimpanzee
倵	(used in given names)
倷	you (dialect)
倻	used to represent phonetic "ya" in Korean names
值	value; (to be) worth; to happen to
值域	image (or range) of a function (math.)
值夜	on night duty
值守	(of a security guard etc) to be on duty, keeping an eye on things
值宿	on night duty
值得	worth the money; to merit; to deserve; to be worth (doing sth)
值得一提	to be worth mentioning
值日	on day duty
值日生	student on duty; prefect
值星	(of army officers) to be on duty for the week
值機	to check in (for a flight)
值此	on this (occasion); at this time when ...; on this occasion
值班	to work a shift; on duty
值當	(coll.) worth it; worthwhile
值遇	to meet with; to bump into
值錢	valuable; costly; expensive
偃	to lie supine; to stop; to fall down
偃師區	Yanshi, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
偃息	(literary) to take a rest; (literary) to cease
偃旗息鼓	lit. lay down the flag and still the drums (idiom); fig. to cease
假	fake; false; artificial
假一賠十	lit. if one is fake, I shall compensate you for ten of them
假人	dummy (for crash testing, displaying clothes etc)
假人像	an effigy
假仁假義	hypocrisy; pretended righteousness
假仙	(Tw) to pretend; to put on a false front (from Taiwanese 假仙, Tai-lo pr. [ké-sian])
假令	if; supposing that; acting county magistrate
假作	to feign; to pretend
假使	if; in case; suppose
假借	to make use of; to use sth as pretext; under false pretenses
假借字	loan character (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters)
假借義	the meaning of a phonetic loan character 假借字[jia3 jie4 zi4] acquired from a similar-sounding word (e.g. 而[er2] originally meant "beard" but acquired the meaning "and")
假充	to pose as sb; to act a part; imposture
假公濟私	official authority used for private interests (idiom); to attain private ends by abusing public position
假冒	to impersonate; to pose as (someone else); to counterfeit
假冒偽劣	cheap quality counterfeit (goods); low-quality commodities
假冒品	counterfeit object; fake
假分數	improper fraction (with numerator ≥ denominator, e.g. seven fifths)
假別	category of leave (maternity leave, sick leave etc)
假動作	fake move or pass (sports); feint
假名	false name; pseudonym; alias
假吏	acting magistrate; temporary official (in former times)
假唱	to lip-sync (singing)
假善人	false compassion; bogus charity
假嗓	falsetto (in opera)
假嗓子	falsetto (in opera)
假報告	false report; forgery; fabricated declaration (e.g. income tax return)
假大空	empty words; bogus speech
假如	if
假子	adopted son; stepson
假定	to assume; to suppose; supposed
假寐	to doze; to take a nap; nodding off to sleep
假小子	tomboy
假山	rock garden; rockery
假幣	counterfeit money
假座	to use as a venue (e.g. use {a restaurant} as the venue {for a farewell party})
假性	pseudo-
假性近視	pseudomyopia
假想	imaginary; virtual; to imagine
假想敵	opposing force (in war games); hypothetical enemy (in strategic studies)
假惺惺	(of an expression of sympathy) insincere; phony
假意	insincerity; hypocrisy; insincerely
假慈悲	phony mercy; sham benevolence; crocodile tears
假戲真唱	fiction comes true; play-acting that turns into reality
假手	to get (sb else) to perform the task; to rely on (sb else) to do it
假手他人	to get one's own task done by sb else
假手於人	(idiom) to get one's own task done by sb else
假托	to pretend; to use a pretext; to make sth up
假扮	to impersonate; to act the part of sb; to disguise oneself as sb else
假拱	blind arch; false arch
假掰	(Tw) affected; pretentious; to put on a display of histrionics (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [ké-pai])
假摔	(soccer) diving; simulation; flopping
假日	a holiday; a day off
假期	vacation
假案	fabricated legal case; frame-up
假條	leave of absence request (from work or school); excuse note
假正經	demure; prudish; hypocritical
假死	suspended animation; feigned death; to play dead
假水	slime (toy)
假洋鬼子	(derog.) wannabe foreigner, a Chinese person who apes the ways of foreigners
假牙	false teeth; dentures
假球	match-fixing; a fixed match
假眼	artificial eye; glass eye
假秤	rigged scale (used to deceive customers by displaying incorrect weight)
假種皮	(botany) aril
假稱	to claim falsely
假而	if
假聲	falsetto (cf. 真聲|真声[zhen1 sheng1], natural or modal voice)
假肢	artificial limb; prosthetic limb
假肯定句	false affirmative
假腿	false leg
假芫茜	Eryngium foetidum
假若	if; supposing; in case
假藥	fake drugs
假裝	to feign; to pretend
假設	to suppose; to presume; to assume
假設性	hypothetical
假設語氣	subjunctive
假話	a lie; untrue statement; misstatement
假說	hypothesis
假證	false testimony
假證件	false documents
假象	false appearance; facade
假象牙	celluloid
假貨	counterfeit article; fake; dummy
假賬	fraudulent financial accounts; cooked books
假途滅虢	lit. a short-cut to crush Guo (idiom); fig. to connive with sb to damage a third party, then turn on the partner
假造	to forge; fake; to fabricate (a story)
假道	via; by way of
假道伐虢	to obtain safe passage to conquer the State of Guo
假釋	parole
假鈔	counterfeit money; forged note
假陰性	false negative
假陽性	false positive
假面	mask
假面具	mask; fig. false façade; deceptive front
假面舞會	masked ball; masquerade
假音	falsetto, same as 假聲|假声
假體	(medicine) prosthesis; implant
假高音	falsetto, same as 假聲|假声
假髮	wig
偈	Buddhist hymn; gatha; Buddhist verse
偉	big; large; great
偉人	great person
偉力	mighty force
偉哥	Viagra (male impotence drug)
偉器	great talent
偉士牌	Vespa (scooter)
偉大	huge; great; grand; worthy of the greatest admiration; important (contribution etc)
偉岸	imposing; upright and tall; outstanding
偉晶岩	pegmatite
偉業	exploit; great undertaking
偉績	great acts
偉舉	great feat; splendid achievement
偉觀	magnificent vista; a wonder
偉麗	magnificent; imposing and beautiful
偌	so; such; to such a degree
偌大	so big; such a big
偎	to cuddle
偎傍	to snuggle up to
偏	to lean; to slant; oblique
偏三輪	old-style cycle with lateral third wheel and passenger seat
偏三輪摩托車	motorbike with sidecar
偏低	to be on the low side; to be inadequate (e.g. of a salary)
偏倚	to be partial; to favor
偏偏	(indicating that sth turns out just the opposite of what one would wish) unfortunately; as it happened
偏僻	remote; desolate; far from the city
偏光	polarized light
偏光鏡	polarizing filter
偏利共棲	(biology) to have a commensal relationship with (another organism)
偏利共生	(biology) to have a commensal relationship with (another organism)
偏勞	undue trouble; Thank you for having gone out of your way to help me.
偏向	partial towards sth; to prefer; to incline
偏執	extreme and inflexible; fixated; stubborn in clinging to a notion
偏執型	paranoid (psych.)
偏執狂	paranoia; monomania
偏壓	biasing (electronics); bias voltage
偏好	to have a special liking (for sth)
偏安	content to hold a small part of the territory
偏宕	extremely (stubborn, contrary, disobedient etc)
偏寵	to favor; to prefer; to show favoritism
偏將	deputy general
偏巧	by coincidence; it so happened that; fortunately
偏差	bias; deviation
偏差距離	offset distance
偏師	military auxiliaries (archaic)
偏廈	side annex; lean-to
偏廢	to give unequal emphasis to
偏待	to show favoritism against sb; to treat unfairly
偏微分	(math.) partial differential; (math.) partial derivative
偏微分方程	partial differential equation (PDE)
偏心	partial; biased; prejudiced
偏心率	(math.) eccentricity
偏心眼	bias; partiality; to be partial
偏心矩	axis of eccentricity
偏愛	to be partial towards sth; to favor; to prefer
偏態	skewness (math)
偏房	side room; concubine
偏才	talent in a particular area
偏振	polarization (of waves)
偏振光	polarization of light; polarized light
偏振波	polarized wave
偏振鏡	polarizing filter
偏斜	crooked; not upright; diverging from straight line
偏方	folk remedy; home remedy
偏旁	component of a Chinese character (as the radical or the phonetic part)
偏析	segregation (metallurgy)
偏極	(physics) polarization
偏極化	polarization; polarized
偏極鏡	polarizing lens; polarizer
偏正式合成詞	modified compound word
偏殿	side palace hall; side chamber
偏激	extreme (usu. of thoughts, speech, circumstances)
偏狹	prejudiced; narrow-minded
偏生	(dialect) see 偏偏[pian1 pian1]
偏疼	to favor a junior; to show favoritism to some juniors
偏癱	paralysis of one side of the body; hemiplegia
偏私	to practice favoritism
偏科	to overemphasize some topic (at the expense of others); overdoing it
偏移	displacement; deviation; offset
偏置	offset; biasing (electronics); bias voltage
偏置電流	bias current (electronics)
偏置電阻	bias impedance (electronics)
偏聽偏信	selective listening; to hear what one wants to hear
偏航	(of a ship or aircraft) to deviate from its course; (aviation) to yaw
偏航軸	(aviation) yaw axis
偏蝕	partial eclipse
偏袒	to bare one shoulder; (fig.) to side with; to discriminate in favor of
偏西	inclining to the west (e.g. of the sun after noon, indicating lateness of the day)
偏要	to insist on doing sth; must do it, despite everything
偏見	prejudice; bias
偏角	angle of drift (navigation); deflection (from course)
偏註	to stress in a prejudiced way; to emphasize sth unduly
偏誤	bias (statistics)
偏護	to protect a croney; to give unprincipled support
偏轉	deflection (physics); deviation (away from a straight line)
偏轉角	angle of drift (navigation); deflection (from course)
偏辭	one-sided words; prejudice; flattery
偏遠	remote; far from civilization
偏邪不正	biased; prejudiced (idiom)
偏重	to stress in a prejudiced way; to emphasize sth unduly
偏鋒	(calligraphy) technique in which the shaft of the brush is held at a low angle, so that the tip of the brush runs along the edge of the stroke (cf. 正鋒|正锋[zheng4 feng1] and 側鋒|侧锋[ce4 feng1])
偏門	side door; doing things by the side door (i.e. dishonestly)
偏關縣	Pianguan, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
偏離	to deviate; to diverge; to wander
偏頗	biased; partial
偏頭痛	migraine
偏題	to go off-topic; to stray from the topic
偏食	partial to (some kinds of food, usu. unhealthy)
偏高	to be on the high side; to be unusually high
偏黃	yellowish
偓	constrained
偕	in company with
偕同	along with; accompanied by; together with
偕老	to grow old together
做	to make; to produce; to write; to compose
做一天和尚撞一天鐘	lit. as a monk for today, toll today's bell (idiom)
做不到	impossible
做事	to work; to handle matters; to have a job
做人	to conduct oneself; to behave with integrity
做人家	thrifty; economical
做人情	to do a favor to sb
做伴	to keep sb company; to accompany
做作	affected; artificial
做出	to put out; to issue
做到	to accomplish; to achieve
做功	(physics) to do work; non-vocal acting (in traditional Chinese opera)
做功夫	to practice (work skills)
做壽	to celebrate a birthday (of an elderly person)
做夢	to dream; to have a dream; (fig.) to indulge in wishful thinking
做大	arrogant; to put on airs
做好做歹	to persuade using all possible arguments (idiom); to act good cop and bad cop in turn
做媒	to act as go-between (between prospective marriage partners etc)
做學問	to pursue scholarly study; to engage in academic research
做完	to finish; to complete the task
做官	to take an official post; to become a government employee
做客	to be a guest or visitor
做小	to be sb's concubine
做小抄	to prepare a crib sheet; to crib; to cheat by copying
做局	to orchestrate a trap; to set sb up
做工	to work with one's hands; manual work; workmanship
做工作	to do one's work; to work on sb; to try to persuade sb
做工夫	to practice (work skills)
做市商	market maker
做廳長	(jocular) to sleep on the couch; to sleep in the living room
做張做勢	to put on an act (idiom); to pose; to show theatrical affectation
做張做智	to put on an act (idiom); to pose; to show theatrical affectation
做愛	to make love
做戲	to act in a play; to put on a play
做手	to put one's hand to sth; to set about; skillful hands
做手腳	to manipulate dishonestly; to tamper with sth
做掉	to kill; to get rid of; (sports) to defeat
做操	to do exercises; to do gymnastics
做文章	to make an issue of sth; to fuss; to make a song and dance
做東	to act as host
做法	way of handling sth; method for making; work method
做活	to work for a living (esp. of woman needleworker)
做派	way of doing sth; behavior; to act in an affected manner
做準備工作	to make preparations
做滿月	to celebrate a baby's one-month milestone (often with a banquet or gathering of family and friends)
做為	to act as; used erroneously for 作為|作为
做牛做馬	lit. to work like an ox, to work like a horse; fig. to work extremely hard
做球	to set up a teammate (with an opportunity to score); to throw a game
做生意	to do business
做生日	to celebrate a birthday
做生活	to work; to do manual labor
做眉做眼	to frown
做眼	(in the game of Go) to make an "eye"
做眼色	to give sb a meaningful look
做禮拜	to worship; to pray (esp. in a regular religious gathering at a church or mosque)
做禱告	to pray
做空	(finance) to short sell
做絕	to go to extremes; to leave no room for maneuver
做聲	to speak; to emit sound
做臉	to win honor; to put on a stern face
做自己	to be oneself
做舊	to give (sth) an antique look; to artificially age; to distress
做菜	to cook; cooking
做親	to become related by marriage; to marry
做買賣	to buy and sell; to do business; to trade
做賊心虛	to feel guilty as a thief (idiom); to have sth on one's conscience
做賬	to keep the books; to do the accounts; (in context) to cook the books
做針線	to do needlework
做錯	to make an error
做雞	(slang) (of a woman) to work as a prostitute
做飯	to prepare a meal; to cook
做鬼	to play tricks; to cheat; to get up to mischief
做鬼臉	to pull a face; to grimace; to scowl
做鴨	(slang) (of a man) to work as a prostitute
停	to stop; to halt; to park (a car)
停下	to stop
停下來	to stop
停住	to stop; to halt; to cease
停俸	to suspend salary payments
停刊	(of a newspaper, magazine etc) to stop publishing
停屍	to keep the body of the deceased (until burial or cremation)
停屍房	mortuary
停屍間	morgue
停工	to stop work; to shut down; to stop production
停息	to stop; to cease
停戰	to cease fire; to stop fighting; armistice; truce
停戰日	Armistice Day
停手	to stop (what one is doing)
停損單	stop-loss order (finance)
停擺	(of a pendulum) to stop swinging
停放	to park (a car etc); to moor (a boat etc); to leave sth (in a place)
停更	to stop updating (content)
停服	to shut down a server; (of a service) to terminate
停業	to cease trading (temporarily or permanently); to close down
停機	(of a machine) to stop; to shut down; to park a plane
停機坪	aircraft parking ground; apron; tarmac (at airport)
停機時間	downtime (computer network, power plant etc)
停歇	to stop for a rest
停止	to stop; to halt; to cease
停步	to come to a stand; to stop
停水	to cut off the water supply; water outage
停泊	to anchor; anchorage; mooring (of a ship)
停滯	stagnation; at a standstill; bogged down
停滯不前	stuck and not moving forward (idiom); stagnant; in a rut
停火	to cease fire; ceasefire
停火線	cease-fire line
停產	to stop production
停用	to stop using; to suspend; to discontinue
停留	to stay somewhere temporarily; to stop over
停當	settled; accomplished; ready
停盤	to suspend trading (stock market)
停站	bus stop
停經	to stop menstruating (as a result of pregnancy, menopause or medical condition etc)
停職	to suspend (sb) from duties
停航	to stop running (of flight of shipping service)
停薪留職	leave of absence without pay
停表	stopwatch; (sports) to stop the clock
停課	to stop classes; to close (of school)
停車	to pull up (stop one's vehicle); to park
停車位	parking space; parking spot
停車場	parking lot; car park
停車庫	car park
停車格	parking bay
停車站	bus stop
停車計時器	parking meter
停辦	to shut down; to terminate; to cancel
停電	to have a power failure; power cut
停靠	to call at; to stop at; berth
停靠港	port of call
停靠站	bus or tram stop; intermediate stop (on route of ship, plane etc)
停頓	to halt; to break off; pause (in speech)
停飛	(of an aircraft) to be grounded
停食	(of food) to retain in stomach due to indigestion (TCM)
停駛	(of trains, buses or ferries etc) to stop running (temporarily or permanently)
偝	to disobey; to stand back-to-back
偟	(literary) free time; leisure
偡	(literary) orderly; neat
偢	to stare at
健	healthy; to invigorate; to strengthen
健保	National Health Insurance (Tw)
健兒	top athlete; heroic warrior
健全	robust; sound
健力	powerlifting
健友	fitness enthusiast; gym-goer
健在	(of an elderly person) alive and in good health
健壯	robust; healthy; sturdy
健將	(archaic) adept and valiant military general
健康	health; healthy
健康保險	health insurance
健康受損	health damage
健康狀況	health status
健康食品	health food
健忘	forgetful
健忘症	amnesia
健怡	diet; low-calorie (drink etc)
健怡可樂	Diet Coke; Coca-Cola Light
健慰器	sex toy
健旺	robust; healthy; vigorous
健檢	(Tw) medical checkup; physical examination (abbr. for 健康檢查|健康检查[jian4 kang1 jian3 cha2])
健步如飛	running as fast as flying
健碩	well-built (physique); strong and muscular
健美	healthy and beautiful; to do fitness exercises
健美操	aerobics; aerobic dance (school P.E. activity)
健美運動	body-building
健行	(Tw) to hike
健診	check-up (health, car safety, environment etc)
健談	entertaining in conversation
健走	to walk briskly (for fitness); to power-walk
健身	to exercise; to keep fit; to work out
健身室	gym
健身房	gym; fitness club
健身館	gym (health center)
偨	uneven
偩	to rely on; to resemble
偪	to compel; to pressure
偫	to wait for; to lay in
偭	to transgress
偯	to sob; wail
偰	contract (variant of 契[qi4])
偱	to tell
偲	(literary) learned; erudite; (literary) gifted; highly talented
偲偲	(literary) to learn from and encourage each other
側	the side; to incline towards; to lean
側刀旁	name of the lateral "knife" radical 刂[dao1] in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 18), occurring in 到[dao4], 利[li4], 別|别[bie2] etc
側壁	side wall
側室	sideroom; concubine
側寫	to profile; profile; (offender) profiling
側影	profile; silhouette
側手翻	(gymnastics) cartwheel; to do a cartwheel
側根	lateral root (botany)
側生動物	parazoan (member of the subkingdom Parazoa)
側目	to raise eyebrows
側空翻	aerial cartwheel; side somersault
側翻	(of a vehicle) to roll over; (of a boat) to capsize
側耳	to bend an ear (to); to listen
側臥	to lie on one's side
側芽	axillary bud
側記	(journalism) supplementary report; sidelight
側身	(to stand or move) sideways
側躺	to lie down (on one's side)
側載	to sideload (an app etc)
側近	vicinity; nearby area
側邊欄	(computing) sidebar
側重	to place particular emphasis on
側重點	main point; emphasis
側鋒	(calligraphy) technique in which the shaft of the brush is held at an oblique angle, so that the tip of the brush runs near the edge of the stroke (cf. 正鋒|正锋[zheng4 feng1] and 偏鋒|偏锋[pian1 feng1])
側錄	to capture data; to record illicitly; data skimming
側鏈	side chain (used in classifying amino acids)
側門	side door
側面	lateral side; side; aspect
偵	to scout; to spy; to detect
偵察	to investigate a crime; to scout; to reconnoiter
偵察兵	a scout; spy
偵察員	detective; investigator; scout
偵察性	investigatory
偵察機	surveillance aircraft; spy plane
偵探	detective; to do detective work
偵查	to detect; to investigate
偵毒器	detection unit
偵毒管	detector tube
偵測	to detect; to sense
偵測器	detector
偵破	to investigate (as detective); to solve (crime); to uncover (a plot)
偵緝	to track down; to investigate and arrest
偵聽	to eavesdrop; to tap (telephone conversations)
偵訊	to interrogate during investigation
偵辦	to investigate (a crime) and prosecute
偶	accidental; image; pair
偶一	accidentally; once in a while; very occasionally
偶一為之	to do sth once in a while (idiom)
偶人	idol (i.e. statue for worship)
偶像	idol
偶像劇	idol drama
偶像包袱	burden of having to maintain one's image as a pop idol
偶函數	even function (math.)
偶合	coincidence
偶數	even number
偶極	dipole (e.g. magnetic dipole)
偶然	incidentally; occasional; occasionally
偶然事件	random accident; chance event
偶然性	chance; fortuity; serendipity
偶爾	occasionally; once in a while; sometimes
偶犯	casual offender; casual offense
偶而	occasionally; once in a while
偶聯反應	chain reaction (chemistry)
偶見	to happen upon; to see incidentally; occasional
偶語棄市	chance remarks can lead to public execution (idiom)
偶買嘎	(loanword) oh my God!
偶蹄	artiodactyl (zoology)
偶蹄目	Artiodactyla (even-toed ungulates, such as pigs, cows, giraffes etc)
偶蹄類	Artiodactyla (even-toed ungulates, such as pigs, cows, giraffes etc)
偶遇	to meet by chance
偷	to steal; to pilfer; to snatch
偷人	(of a married woman) to cheat on her husband; to have an affair
偷偷	stealthily; secretly; covertly
偷偷摸摸	(idiom) surreptitious; sneaky
偷加	to surreptitiously add (sth that shouldn't be there)
偷去	to steal; to make off with; stolen
偷取	to steal
偷吃	to eat on the sly; to pilfer food; to be unfaithful
偷天換日	to engage in fraudulent activities (idiom); skulduggery
偷子	thief
偷安	to shirk responsibility; thoughtless pleasure-seeking
偷工	to skimp on the job; to avoid work
偷工減料	to skimp on the job and stint on materials (idiom); jerry-building
偷師	to steal techniques; to learn secretly from sb else's skills or methods
偷情	to carry on a clandestine love affair
偷惰	to skive off work; to be lazy
偷懶	to goof off; to be lazy
偷拍	to photograph or film sb without their knowledge or consent
偷排	to dump illegally
偷換	to substitute on the sly
偷摸	surreptitious; sneaky
偷梁換柱	lit. to steal a rafter and replace it with a column
偷油婆	(dialect) cockroach
偷渡	illegal immigration; to stowaway (on a ship)
偷渡者	smuggled illegal alien; stowaway
偷漏	to evade (taxes)
偷漢子	(of a married woman) to cheat on her husband; to have an affair
偷獵	to poach
偷獵者	poacher
偷生	to live without purpose
偷盜	to steal
偷看	to peep; to peek; to steal a glance
偷眼	to take a furtive look at
偷稅	tax evasion
偷空	to take some time out; to make use of a spare moment
偷窺	to peep; to peek; to act as voyeur
偷窺狂	voyeur; peeping tom
偷竊	to steal; to pilfer
偷笑	to laugh up one's sleeve
偷聽	to eavesdrop; to monitor (secretly)
偷腥	to cheat on one's spouse; to have an affair
偷襲	to mount a sneak attack; to raid
偷跑	to sneak off; to slip away
偷運	to smuggle
偷閑	to snatch a moment of leisure; to take a break from work
偷閒	to snatch a moment of leisure; to take a break from work
偷雞不成蝕把米	lit. to try to steal a chicken only to end up losing the rice used to lure it (idiom)
偷雞摸狗	to imitate the dog and steal chicken (idiom); to pilfer
偷香竊玉	lit. stolen scent, pilfered jade (idiom); philandering
偽	false; fake; forged
偽代碼	pseudocode
偽劣	inferior; false
偽君子	hypocrite
偽命題	false proposition; fundamentally flawed notion
偽善	hypocritical
偽善者	hypocrite
偽基百科	Uncyclopedia (satirical website parodying Wikipedia)
偽娘	(ACG) femboy
偽幣	counterfeit currency
偽托	faking a modern object as an ancient one
偽書	forged book; book of dubious authenticity; misattributed book
偽朝	illegitimate dynasty; pretender dynasty
偽科學	pseudoscience
偽紀錄片	mockumentary
偽經	forged scriptures; bogus classic; pseudepigrapha
偽裝	to pretend to be (asleep etc); to disguise oneself as; pretense
偽證	perjury
偽跡	(medicine, signal processing) artifact; spurious signal or feature
偽軍	puppet army
偽造	to forge; to fake; to counterfeit
偽造品	counterfeit object; forgery; fake
偽造者	forger
偽鈔	counterfeit currency
偽陰性	false negative
偽陽性	false positive
偽頂	false roof
偽飾	to prettify; to dress (sth) up
傀	grand; strange; exotic
傀儡	(lit. and fig.) puppet
傀儡戲	puppet show
傀儡政權	puppet state; puppet regime
傅	(bound form) instructor; (literary) to instruct; to attach
傅作義	Fu Zuoyi (1895–1974), Chinese general and politician, Nationalist commander who negotiated the peaceful surrender of Beiping (Beijing) to the Communists in 1949, and later held senior posts in the PRC government
傅柯	Michel Foucault (1926-1984), French philosopher (Tw)
傅科擺	Foucault's pendulum
傅立葉	Charles Fourier (French sociologist and socialist, 1772-1837)
傅立葉變換	(math.) Fourier transform
傅說	Fu Shuo (c. 14th century BC), legendary sage and principal minister of Shang ruler Wu Ding
傅里葉	Jean-Baptiste-Joseph Fourier (French mathematician, 1768-1830)
傈	used in 傈僳[Li4 su4]
傈僳	Lisu ethnic group
傈僳族	Lisu ethnic group
傌	(Chinese chess) horse; knight (on the red side)
傍	near; approaching; to depend on
傍亮	dawn; daybreak
傍人籬壁	to depend on others
傍人門戶	to be dependent upon sb
傍午	towards noon; just before midday
傍大款	to live off a rich man
傍家兒	lover; partner
傍晚	in the evening; when night falls; towards evening
傍柳隨花	prostitute
傍近	to be close to
傍邊	near; beside
傍黑	dusk
傎	inversion; mistake
傑	(bound form) hero; heroic; outstanding person
傑伊漢港	Ceyhan (Turkish Mediterranean port)
傑佛茲	James Jeffords (1934-2014), former US Senator from Vermont
傑作	masterpiece
傑克	Jack (name)
傑克·倫敦	Jack London (1876-1916), American writer
傑克森	Jackson (name)
傑克遜	Jackson (name); Jackson city, capital of Mississippi
傑出	outstanding; distinguished; remarkable
傑利蠑螈	(loanword) gerrymander
傑士派	Gatsby, Japanese cosmetics brand
傑夫	Jeff or Geoff (name)
傑夫·金尼	Jeff Kinney
傑奎琳	Jacqueline (name)
傑奎琳·肯尼迪	Jacqueline Onassis Kennedy (1929-1994)
傑弗遜	Jefferson; capital of Missouri
傑弗里·喬叟	Geoffrey Chaucer (1343-1400), English poet, author of The Canterbury Tales 坎特伯雷故事集[Kan3 te4 bo2 lei2 Gu4 shi4 Ji2]
傑拉	Gela (city in Sicily)
傑拉德	Gerrard (name)
傑斐遜城	Jefferson City, capital of Missouri
傑瑞	Jerry or Gerry (name)
傑瑞·宋飛	Jerry Seinfeld
傑米	(name) Jamie; Jim
傑西	Jesse (name)
傑西·歐文斯	Jesse Owens (1913-1980), American athlete
傑西卡	Jessica (name)
傑西卡·艾爾芭	Jessica Alba, American actress
傑里科	Jericho (town in West Bank)
傑里米	Jeremy (name)
傒	(old) native of Jiangxi 江西[Jiang1 xi1]; to wait; servant
傔	servant
傕	used in old names
傖	low fellow; rustic; rude
傘	umbrella; parasol
傘下	under the umbrella of
傘兵	paratrooper
傘形	umbrella-shaped
傘形科	Umbelliferae or Apiaceae, plant family containing carrot, coriander etc
傘菌	agaric
傘降	to parachute into; parachuting
備	(bound form) to prepare; to equip; (literary) fully; completely
備下	to prepare; to arrange (sth to be offered)
備件	spare parts
備份	backup
備取	to be on the waiting list (for admission to a school)
備受	to receive a great deal of (respect, criticism, attention etc)
備品	machine parts or tools kept in reserve; spare parts
備嘗辛苦	(idiom) to have suffered all kinds of hardships
備妥	to get sth ready
備孕	to be trying to get pregnant
備忘錄	memorandum; aide-memoire; memorandum book
備悉	to know all about; to be informed of all the details
備戰	to prepare for war
備抵	an allowance; to allow for (a drop in value) (accountancy)
備援	backup (Tw)
備料	to get the materials ready; to prepare feed (for livestock)
備查	for future reference
備案	to put on record; to file
備用	reserve; spare; alternate
備用二級頭呼吸器	(scuba diving) backup regulator; octopus
備用環	backup ring
備皮	to prep a patient's skin prior to surgery (shaving hair, cleansing etc)
備細	details; particulars
備考	to prepare for an exam; (of an appendix, note etc) for reference
備而不用	have sth ready just in case; keep sth for possible future use
備耕	to make preparations for plowing and sowing
備胎	spare tire; (slang) fallback guy (or girl)
備至	to the utmost; in every possible way
備荒	to prepare against natural disasters
備註	remarks column (abbr. for 備註欄|备注栏[bei4 zhu4 lan2])
備註欄	remarks column
備課	(of a teacher) to do one's lesson preparation
備貨	to stock goods (for sale); to prepare inventory; stock; inventory
備辦	to provide (items for an event); to cater; to make preparations
備選	alternative (plan, arrangement, strategy etc)
備降	(aviation) to land at an alternate airport
傚	to imitate (variant of 效[xiao4])
傜	Yao tribe
傞	uneven; unsteady (in dancing)
傢	used in 傢伙|家伙[jia1 huo5] and 傢俱|家俱[jia1 ju4]
傣	Dai ethnic group
傣族	Dai ethnic group
催	to urge; to press; to prompt
催乳	to promote lactation; to stimulate lactation (e.g. with drug)
催乳激素	prolactin
催促	to urge
催化	to catalyze (a reaction); catalysis
催化作用	catalysis
催化劑	catalyst
催吐	to induce vomiting
催吐劑	an emetic
催命	to press sb to death; fig. to pressurize sb continually
催奶	to promote lactation; to stimulate lactation (e.g. with drug)
催婚	to urge sb (typically, one's adult child or nephew etc) to get married
催情	to promote estrus; to bring an animal to heat by artificial means
催收	to urge sb to provide sth
催更	(slang) (of a follower) to urge (a blogger etc) to post some fresh content (abbr. for 催促更新[cui1 cu4 geng1 xin1])
催淚	to move to tears (of a story); tear-provoking (gas); lacrimogen
催淚劑	lachrymator
催淚大片	tear-jerker (movie)
催淚彈	tear bomb; tear-gas grenade
催淚瓦斯	tear gas
催熟	to promote ripening of fruit
催生	to pressure a younger relative to hurry up and have a baby
催生婆	midwife who induces labor
催生素	oxytocin
催生者	driving force behind sth
催產	to induce labor; to expedite childbirth
催產素	oxytocin
催眠	to lull to sleep; to hypnotize
催眠師	hypnotist
催眠曲	lullaby
催眠狀態	hypnosis
催眠藥	soporific drug
催眠術	hypnotism; hypnotherapy; mesmerism
催肥	to fatten (animal before slaughter)
催肥劑	(animal) fattening preparation
催膘	to feed livestock with highly nutritional food in order to fatten them up in a short time
催芽	to induce germination of seeds (e.g. by soaking in water); to encourage sprouting of tubers or cuttings (e.g. by applying warmth or chemicals)
催討	to demand repayment of debt
催證	to call for the issue of a letter of credit (international trade)
催谷	to boost; to propel
催賬	to demand payment of money owed
催逼	to press (for a payment)
傭	to hire; to employ; servant
傭人	servant
傭兵	(military) mercenary; (sports) player hired from another country
傭婢	servant girl
傭婦	maid; female servant; domestic worker
傭工	hired laborer; servant
傮	finish, to go around
傯	busy; hurried; despondent
傲	proud; arrogant; to despise
傲人	worthy of pride; impressive; enviable
傲嬌	(coll.) presenting as unfriendly and blunt, but warm and tender inside (loanword from Japanese "tsundere")
傲岸	proud; haughty
傲慢	arrogant; haughty
傲慢無禮	(idiom) arrogant; disrespectful
傲慢與偏見	Pride and Prejudice, novel by Jane Austen 珍·奧斯汀|珍·奥斯汀[Zhen1 · Ao4 si1 ting1]
傲氣	air of arrogance; haughtiness
傲然	loftily; proudly; unyieldingly
傲睨	to look down upon
傲立	to stand proudly
傲視	to turn up one's nose; to show disdain for; to regard superciliously
傲視群倫	outstanding talent (idiom); incomparable artistic merit
傲骨	lofty and unyielding character
傳	biography; historical narrative; commentaries
傳三過四	to spread rumors; to gossip
傳世	handed down from ancient times; family heirloom
傳人	to teach; to impart; a disciple
傳代	to pass to the next generation
傳令	to transmit an order
傳令兵	(military) messenger; orderly
傳來	(of a sound) to come through; to be heard; (of news) to arrive
傳入	to import; transmitted inwards; afferent
傳入神經	afferent nerve (transmitting in to the brain); afferent neuron
傳出	to transmit outwards; to disseminate; efferent (nerve)
傳出神經	efferent nerve (transmitting out from the brain); efferent neuron
傳動	drive (transmission in an engine)
傳動器	drive (engine)
傳動帶	transmission belt
傳動機構	transmission mechanism
傳動比	transmission ratio; gear ratio
傳動系統	transmission system; power drive
傳動裝置	(automobile) transmission
傳動軸	drive shaft
傳參	to pass an argument (computing) (abbr. for 傳遞參數|传递参数[chuan2 di4 can1 shu4])
傳名	to spread one's reputation
傳告	to pass on (a message); to relay (the information)
傳呼	to notify sb of a call; to call sb to the phone
傳呼機	pager; beeper
傳呼電話	neighborhood telephone, with sb in charge of notifying others when they receive a call
傳唱	to pass on a song
傳喚	a summons (to the police); subpoena
傳單	leaflet; flier; pamphlet
傳回	to send back
傳報	notification; memorial
傳奇	legendary; fantasy saga; romance
傳奇人物	legendary person; legend (i.e. person)
傳媒	the media; mass media
傳宗接代	to carry on one's ancestral line
傳家	to pass on through the generations
傳家寶	family heirloom
傳寄	to send (message to sb); to communicate; to forward (message)
傳寫	to copy; to pass on a copy
傳導	to conduct (heat, electricity etc)
傳布	to spread; to propagate; to disseminate
傳幫帶	to pass on experience (to the next generation)
傳心術	telepathy
傳情	to pass on amorous feelings; to send one's love to sb
傳感	sensing (electronics); telepathy
傳感器	sensor; transducer
傳戒	(Buddhism) to initiate sb for monkhood or nunhood
傳承	to pass on (to future generations); passed on (from former times)
傳抄	to copy (a text) from person to person
傳授	to impart; to pass on; to teach
傳揚	to spread (by word of mouth)
傳播	to disseminate; to propagate; to spread
傳教	to proselytize; to do missionary work
傳教團	a mission (group of missionaries)
傳教士	missionary
傳旨	issue a decree
傳書鴿	carrier pigeon (used for mail)
傳本	edition (of a book) currently in circulation
傳染	to infect; contagious
傳染性	infectious; contagious; infectiousness; transmissibility
傳染源	source of an infection
傳染病	infectious disease; contagious disease; communicable disease
傳染病學	epidemiology
傳檄	to circulate (a protest or call to arms); to promulgate
傳法	to pass on doctrines from master to disciple (Buddhism)
傳流	to spread; to hand down; to circulate
傳熱	to transmit heat
傳熱學	theory of heat; heat transmission (physics)
傳燈	to pass on the light of Buddha
傳球	(sports) to pass the ball
傳產	traditional industry (abbr. for 傳統產業|传统产业[chuan2 tong3 chan3 ye4])
傳略	biographical sketch
傳發	to order sb to start on a journey
傳真	to fax; a fax; (literary) to portray vividly in painting
傳真機	fax machine
傳真電報	phototelegram
傳神	vivid; lifelike
傳票	summons; subpoena; voucher
傳種	to reproduce; to propagate
傳粉	pollination; to pollinate
傳給	to pass on to; to transfer to; to hand on to
傳統	tradition; traditional
傳統醫藥	Chinese traditional medicine
傳經	to pass on scripture; to teach Confucian doctrine
傳習	teaching and learning; to study and impart
傳聞	rumor
傳聞證據	hearsay (law)
傳聲	to transmit sound
傳聲器	microphone
傳聲筒	loudhailer; megaphone; one who parrots sb
傳藝	to impart skills; to pass on one's art
傳見	to summon for an interview
傳觀	to pass sth around (for others to look at)
傳言	rumor; hearsay
傳訊	(law) to summon (a witness); to subpoena; to arraign (an offender)
傳記	biography
傳話	to pass on a story; to communicate a message
傳話人	messenger; communicator; relay
傳語	to pass on (information)
傳誦	widely known; on everyone's lips
傳說	legend; folk tale; to repeat from mouth to mouth; they say that...
傳講	to preach
傳謠	to spread rumors
傳譯	to translate; to interpret
傳質	(chemistry) mass transfer (as observed in processes like evaporation, distillation and membrane filtration)
傳贊	postscript to a biography
傳載	to reprint; to repost; to transmit (in writing etc)
傳輸	to transmit; transmission
傳輸媒質	transmission medium
傳輸媒體	transmission medium
傳輸層	transport layer
傳輸控制	transmission control
傳輸控制協定	transmission control protocol; TCP
傳輸服務	transport service
傳輸模式	transfer mode; transmission method
傳輸率	transmission rate
傳輸線	transmission line
傳輸設備	transmission facility; transmission equipment
傳輸距離	transmission distance
傳輸通道	transport channel
傳輸速率	(computing) transmission rate; transmission speed
傳述	to relay; to retell
傳送	to convey; to deliver; to transmit
傳送帶	conveyor belt; transmission belt
傳送服務	delivery service
傳遍	to spread widely
傳道	to lecture on doctrine; to expound the wisdom of ancient sages
傳道書	Ecclesiastes (biblical book of sermons)
傳道者	missionary; preacher
傳道部	mission
傳達	to pass on; to convey; to relay
傳達員	usher; receptionist
傳達室	reception office; janitor's office
傳遞	to transmit; to pass on to sb else; (math.) transitive
傳遞者	messenger; transmitter (of information)
傳銷	multi-level marketing
傳開	(of news) to spread; to get around
傳閱	to read and pass on; to pass on for perusal
傳頌	to eulogize; to pass on praise
傴	hunchbacked
債	debt
債主	creditor
債券	bond; debenture
債務	debt; liability; amount due
債務人	debtor
債務擔保證券	collateralized debt obligation (CDO), type of bond
債務證券	debt security; bond security
債務證書	debt instrument
債多不愁	(lit.) when up to one's ears in debt, one ceases to worry about it (idiom)
債市	bond market (abbr. for 債券市場|债券市场[zhai4 quan4 shi4 chang3])
債戶	debtor
債權	creditor's rights (law)
債權人	creditor
債權國	creditor country
債款	debt
債臺高築	lit. build a high desk of debt (idiom); heavily in debt
傷	to injure; injury; wound
傷不起	(slang) it's just the pits!; so unfair!; unbearable
傷亡	casualties; injuries and deaths
傷人	to injure sb
傷俘	wounded and captured
傷停補時	(sports) injury time
傷別	sorrowful farewell; sad goodbye
傷勢	condition of an injury
傷及無辜	to harm the innocent (idiom)
傷口	wound; cut
傷和氣	to damage a good relationship; to hurt sb's feelings
傷員	wounded person
傷天害理	to offend Heaven and reason (idiom); bloody atrocities that cry to heaven
傷害	to injure; to harm
傷寒	typhoid
傷寒沙門氏菌	salmonella typhimurium
傷寒症	typhoid
傷心	to grieve; to be broken-hearted; to feel deeply hurt
傷心慘目	(idiom) too appalling to look at
傷心欲絕	(idiom) to be overcome with grief
傷心致死	to grieve to death; to die of a broken-heart
傷心蒿目	to grieve; broken-hearted
傷患	injured person
傷悲	sad; sorrowful (literary)
傷悼	to grieve for deceased relative; to mourn
傷感	sad; emotional; sentimental
傷懷	grieved; full of sorrow
傷殘	disabled; maimed; crippled
傷殘人員	the injured; wounded personnel
傷疤	scar
傷病	injury and illness
傷病員	the sick and the wounded
傷痕	scar; bruise
傷痕累累	cuts and bruises all over the body
傷痛	pain (from wound); sorrow
傷筋動骨	to suffer serious injury (idiom)
傷筋斷骨	to suffer serious injury (idiom)
傷者	casualty; victim (of an accident); wounded person
傷耗	damage (e.g. to goods in transit)
傷腦筋	to be a real headache; to find sth a real headache
傷號	casualties; wounded soldiers
傷身	to be harmful to one's health
傷透	to break (sb's heart); to cause grief to
傷道	wound track (the path of a bullet through the body)
傷風	to catch cold
傷風敗俗	offending public morals (idiom)
傺	to detain; to hinder
傻	foolish
傻不愣登	stupid; dazed
傻乎乎	feeble-minded; dim-witted
傻人有傻福	fortune favors fools (idiom); fool's luck
傻冒	idiot; fool; foolish
傻卵	(vulgar) dumbass
傻叉	fool; blockhead
傻大個	idiot; blockhead; clod
傻大個兒	stupid great hulk of a man
傻子	idiot; fool
傻屄	(vulgar) stupid cunt
傻屌	(vulgar) dumbass
傻帽	fool; idiot; foolish
傻愣愣	staring stupidly; petrified
傻氣	foolish; foolishness
傻爆眼	(slang) stunned; flabbergasted (emphatic form of 傻眼[sha3 yan3])
傻瓜	idiot; fool
傻瓜乾麵	boiled noodles served without broth, topped with just a sprinkle of oil and some chopped spring onions, to which customers add vinegar, soy sauce or chili oil according to their taste
傻瓜式	foolproof
傻瓜相機	point-and-shoot camera; compact camera
傻白甜	(Internet slang) sweet, naive young woman
傻眼	(coll.) stunned; dumbfounded; flabbergasted
傻笑	to giggle; to laugh foolishly; to smirk
傻缺	(slang) idiot; fool
傻蛋	stupid young fellow; idiot
傻裡傻氣	foolish; stupid
傻話	foolish talk; nonsense
傻頭傻腦	(idiom) stupid; muddle-headed
傾	to overturn; to collapse; to lean
傾佩	to admire greatly
傾倒	to dump; to pour out; to empty out
傾側	to lean to one side; slanting
傾力	to do one's utmost
傾動	to admire
傾危	in danger of collapse; in a parlous state; (of person) treacherous
傾卸	to tip; to dump by tipping from a vehicle
傾吐	to pour out (emotions); to unburden oneself (of strong feelings)
傾吐胸臆	to pour out one's heart
傾吐衷腸	to pour out (emotions); to pour one's heart out
傾向	trend; tendency; orientation
傾向性	tendency; inclination; orientation
傾向於	to incline to; to prefer; to be prone to
傾囊	to empty out one's pocket; (fig.) to give everything one has (to help)
傾囊相授	(idiom) to impart all one's knowledge or expertise
傾國傾城	lit. capable of causing the downfall of a city or state (idiom)
傾城	coming from everywhere; from all over the place; gorgeous (of woman)
傾家	to ruin a family; to lose a fortune
傾家蕩產	to lose a family fortune (idiom)
傾巢	lit. the whole nest came out (to fight us)
傾巢來犯	to turn out in force ready to attack (idiom)
傾巢而出	the whole nest came out (idiom); to turn out in full strength
傾心	to admire wholeheartedly; to fall in love with
傾心吐膽	to pour out one's heart (idiom)
傾慕	to adore; to admire greatly
傾斜	to incline; to lean; to slant
傾斜度	inclination (from the horizontal or vertical); slope; obliquity
傾服	to admire
傾泄	to cascade down; to flow in torrents; (fig.) outpouring (of emotions)
傾注	to throw into
傾瀉	to pour down in torrents
傾盆	a downpour; rain bucketing down
傾盆大雨	(idiom) a downpour; rain bucketing down
傾盡	to do all one can; to give all one has
傾箱倒篋	(idiom) to exhaust all one has; to leave no stone unturned
傾羨	to admire; to adore
傾翻	to overturn; to topple; to tip
傾耳	(literary) to listen attentively
傾耳細聽	to prick up one's ear and listen carefully
傾耳而聽	to listen attentively
傾聽	to listen attentively
傾聽者	listener
傾蓋	to meet in passing; to get on well at first meeting
傾覆	to capsize; to collapse; to overturn
傾角	dip
傾訴	to say everything (that is on one's mind)
傾談	to have a good talk
傾軋	conflict; internal strife; dissension
傾銷	to dump (goods, products)
傾陷	to frame (an innocent person); to collapse
傾頹	to collapse; to topple; to capsize
傿	name of an immortal; ancient place name; surname Yan
僂	used in 佝僂|佝偻[gou1 lou2]; used in 僂儸|偻㑩[lou2 luo5]
僄	light; airy
僅	barely; only; merely
僅作參考	for reference only
僅供	only for
僅供參考	for reference only
僅僅	barely; only; merely
僅次於	second only to ...; ranking behind only ...
僅此而已	(idiom) that's all; just this and nothing more
僇	to despise; to insult
僉	all
働	(Japanese kokuji) labor; work
僎	collect
像	to resemble; to be like; to look as if
像元	(remote sensing) pixel
像差	(optics) aberration
像模像樣	solemn; presentable; decent
像樣	presentable; decent; up to par
像章	badge; insignia
像素	pixel
像話	proper; appropriate (mostly used in the negative or in a rhetorical question)
像那麽回事兒	not bad at all; quite impressive
僑	emigrant; to reside abroad
僑務	matters relating to the Chinese diaspora (as a concern of the Chinese government)
僑務委員會	Overseas Chinese Affairs Council, Taiwan
僑居	to live far away from one's native place
僑民	expatriates
僑生	student of overseas Chinese descent who returns to mainland China or Taiwan to pursue their studies (abbr. for 華僑學生|华侨学生[Hua2 qiao2 xue2 sheng5])
僑眷	family members of nationals residing abroad
僑胞	countryman living abroad
僑鄉	hometown of overseas Chinese
僔	to congregate; to crowd
僕	servant
僕人	servant
僕役	servant
僕歐	(old) waiter (loanword from "boy"); attendant
僖	cautious; merry; joyful
僚	bureaucrat; colleague
僚機	wingman aircraft
僜	Deng ethnic minority of Tibet
僝	to revile; to abuse
僣	to overstep one's authority; to usurp
僤	great; severe
僥	used in 僬僥|僬侥[jiao1 yao2]
僥倖	luckily; by a fluke
僥倖心理	trusting to luck; wishful thinking
僦	(literary) to rent; to hire; to lease
僧	(bound form) Buddhist monk (abbr. for 僧伽[seng1 qie2])
僧人	monk
僧伽	(Buddhism) sangha; the monastic community; monk
僧侶	monk
僧俗	Buddhist monks and secular people
僧加羅語	Sinhalese (language)
僧多粥少	lit. many monks and not much gruel (idiom)
僧尼	(Buddhist) monks and nuns
僧帽水母	(zoology) Portuguese man o' war (Physalia physalis)
僧帽猴	capuchin monkey; genus Cebidae
僧徒	Buddhist monks
僧院	abbey; Buddhist monastery; vihara
僨	to instigate; to ruin; to destroy
僩	courageous; valiant
僬	used in 僬僥|僬侥[jiao1 yao2]; used in 僬僬[jiao1 jiao1]
僬僥	legendary dwarfs in the west of China
僬僬	(archaic) clear-minded; (archaic) bustling
僭	(bound form) to overstep one's authority
僭主	tyrant; usurper
僭主政治	tyranny; government by usurper
僭稱	to give sb or sth a title one has no authority to give
僭越	to usurp; to overstep one's authority
僮	servant boy
僮僕	boy servant
僮族	old term for 壯族|壮族, Zhuang ethnic group of Guangxi
僯	ashamed
僰	name of an ethnic group
僱傭	to employ; to hire
僱兇	to hire a hitman
僱用	to employ; to hire
僳	used in 傈僳[Li4 su4]
僵	rigid; deadlock; stiff (corpse)
僵住	motionless; unable to move
僵住症	catalepsy
僵化	to become rigid
僵固性	rigidity
僵局	impasse; deadlock
僵屍網絡	botnet; zombie network; slave network (used by spammers)
僵屍車	(coll.) abandoned car
僵持	to be deadlocked
僵直	stiff; rigid; inflexible
僵硬	stiff; rigid
僵臥	to lie rigid and motionless
價	particle used between an adverb and a verb or adjective
價位	price level
價值	value; worth; (ethical, cultural etc) values
價值增殖	valorization (in Marxist theory)
價值工程	value engineering
價值標準	values; standards
價值觀	value system; personal or cultural values
價值連城	invaluable; priceless
價值量	magnitude of value
價層	valency shell (chemistry)
價差	price difference
價廉物美	inexpensive and of good quality (idiom)
價格	price
價格戰	price war
價格標籤	price tag
價格表	price list; pricing table
價款	cost
價目	(marked) price; tariff (in a restaurant etc)
價碼	price tag
價簽	price tag
價錢	price
價鍵	valence bond (chemistry)
價電子	valency electron; outer shell of electrons
僻	(bound form) remote; out of the way; off-center
僻地	the sticks; the boondocks
僻處	to be located in (a remote place)
僻遠	remote and faraway
僻靜	lonely; secluded
僾	indistinct; hazy; misty
僿	small, minute; lacking sincerity
儀	apparatus; rites; appearance
儀仗	ceremonial weaponry
儀仗隊	honor guard; guard of honor
儀典	ceremony
儀器	instrument; apparatus
儀器表	gauge
儀容	appearance
儀式	ceremony
儀徵市	Yizheng, a county-level city in Yangzhou City 揚州市|扬州市[Yang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
儀態	bearing; deportment
儀禮	Rites and Ceremonies, part of the Confucian Classic of Rites 禮記|礼记[Li3 ji4]
儀節	etiquette; ceremonial protocol
儀衛	guard of honor
儀表	appearance; bearing; meter (i.e. measuring instrument)
儀表放大器	instrumentation amplifier
儀表盤	dashboard; indicator panel
儀隊	honor guard; parade squad
儀隴縣	Yilong, a county in Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
儂	you (Wu dialect); I, me (classical)
儃	indecisive; irresolute
億	100 million
億萬	millions and millions
億萬富翁	billionaire; multimillionaire
億萬富豪	multimillionaire
儅	stop
儆	to warn; to admonish
儆戒	to warn; to admonish
儇	(literary) ingenious; (literary) frivolous
儈	broker
儉	(bound form) frugal; thrifty
儉以養廉	(idiom) frugality makes honesty
儉學	to be frugal so that one can pay for one's education
儉樸	thrifty and simple
儉用	to economize; to be frugal
儉省	thrifty; economical; sparing
儉約	frugal; economical; thrifty
儉素	thrifty and plain
儉腹	lacking in knowledge; ignorant
儉薄	meager; poor
儊	rough and rugged
儋	carry
儋州市	Danzhou, prefecture-level city in Hainan Province 海南省[Hai3 nan2 Sheng3]
儋縣	Dan county, Hainan
儌	by mere luck
儎	load; cargo; to transport
儐	best man; to entertain
儐相	attendant of the bride or bridegroom at a wedding
儒	scholar; Confucian
儒勒·凡爾納	Jules Verne (1828-1905), French novelist specializing in science fiction and adventure stories
儒士	a Confucian scholar
儒學	Confucianism
儒家	Confucian school, founded by Confucius 孔子[Kong3 zi3] (551-479 BC) and Mencius 孟子[Meng4 zi3] (c. 372-c. 289 BC)
儒教	Confucianism
儒林外史	The Scholars, satirical Qing dynasty novel by Wu Jingzi 吳敬梓|吴敬梓[Wu2 Jing4 zi3]
儒生	Confucian scholar (old)
儒略日	Julian day (astronomy)
儒者	Confucian scholar
儒艮	dugong
儒雅	scholarly; refined; cultured
儓	servant
儔	comrades; friends; companions
儕	a class; a company; companion
儗	doubtful; suspicious; to emulate
儘	to the greatest extent
儘先	in the first instance; as a first priority
儘可能	as far as possible; to the best of one's ability
儘快	as quickly as possible; as soon as possible
儘數	(Tw) in its entirety; all of it; all of them
儘早	as early as possible
儘管	despite; although; even though
儘自	always; always regardless (of anything)
儘量	as much as possible; to the greatest extent
儜	weak; wearied; in distress
償	to repay; to compensate for; to recompense
償付	to pay back
償債	to repay a debt
償命	to pay with one's life
償清	to repay; to pay off a debt
償還	to repay; to reimburse
儡	used in 傀儡[kui3 lei3]
儤	on night duty
儦	walking to and fro
儩	the end; to finish
優	excellent; superior
優伶	(old) performing artist; actor; actress
優先	to have priority; to take precedence
優先承購權	prior purchase right; right of first refusal (ROFR)
優先級	(computing) priority level; (computing) precedence (of operators)
優先股	preferred stock
優先認股權	preemptive right (in share issue)
優兔	YouTube (unofficial Chinese rendering)
優劣	good and bad; merits and drawbacks
優勝	(of a contestant) winning; superior; excellent
優勝劣汰	(idiom) survival of the fittest
優勢	superiority; dominance; advantage
優化	to optimize; (corporate euphemism) to lay off staff
優厚	generous, liberal (pay, compensation)
優孟	You Meng, famous court jester during the reign of King Zhuang of Chu 楚莊王|楚庄王[Chu3 Zhuang1 wang2], known for his intelligence and sharp tongue
優尼科	Unocal (US oil company)
優待	preferential treatment; to give preferential treatment
優待券	discount coupon; complimentary ticket
優待票	reduced-price ticket (e.g. for students)
優惠	privilege; favorable (terms); preferential (treatment)
優惠券	coupon
優惠貸款	(finance) concessional loan; soft loan
優於	to surpass
優柔	gentle; carefree; indecisive
優柔寡斷	indecisive; irresolute
優格	(loanword) yogurt
優步	Uber, app-based taxi company founded in 2009
優渥	handsome (pay etc); generous; liberal
優生	outstanding student
優生學	eugenics
優異	exceptional; outstandingly good
優異獎	excellence award; merit award
優盤	USB flash drive
優秀	outstanding; excellent
優等	first-rate; of the highest order; high-class
優等生	top student; outstanding student; standout performer
優績主義	meritocracy
優缺點	advantages and disadvantages; pros and cons; merits and shortcomings
優美	graceful; fine; elegant
優良	fine; good; first-rate
優衣庫	Uniqlo, Japanese clothing brand
優裕	plenty; abundance
優角	reflex angle
優諾牌	Uno (card game)
優質	excellent quality
優越	superior; superiority
優遊	carefree; leisurely
優遊自得	free and at leisure (idiom); unfettered
優選	to optimize; preferred
優酪乳	yogurt (loanword) (Tw)
優酷	Youku, Chinese video hosting platform
優雅	grace; graceful
優點	merit; benefit; strong point
儭	to assist; to give alms
儱	rude; barbarous
儲	(bound form) to store up; to keep in reserve; heir to the throne
儲值	(Tw) to put money into (a stored-value card or pre-paid phone account); to top up
儲值卡	stored-value card; prepaid card (telephone, transport etc)
儲備	to store up; reserves
儲備糧	grain reserves
儲備貨幣	reserve currency
儲備金	reserves (bank)
儲君	heir apparent to a throne
儲存	stockpile; to store; to stockpile
儲幣	to deposit money
儲戶	(bank) depositor
儲氣	gas storage
儲氣罐	gas tank (for gas, not gasoline)
儲水	to store water
儲水管	standpipe (firefighting water storage system for a building)
儲水箱	water-storage tank
儲物	to store things; to stow items
儲物櫃	locker; cabinet
儲精囊	seminal vesicle
儲能	to store energy (esp. in batteries, fuel cells etc)
儲蓄	to save money (in a bank); savings
儲蓄卡	debit card
儲蓄率	savings rate
儲藏	to store; deposit; (oil, mineral etc) deposits
儲藏室	storeroom
儲量	remaining quantity; reserves (of natural resources, oil etc)
儳	irregular; mixed
儷	(bound form) paired; coupled; (bound form) husband and wife
儷影	photo of a (married) couple
儸	used in 僂儸|偻㑩[lou2 luo5]
儹	to accumulate, to hoard, to store up
儺	to exorcise demons
儺戲	Anhui local opera
儺神	exorcising God; God who drives away plague and evil spirits
儻	(literary) variant of 倘[tang3]; used in 倜儻|倜傥[ti4 tang3]
儼	majestic; dignified
儼如	(literary) to be exactly like; to be exactly as if
儼然	just like; solemn; dignified
儽	lazy; tired out, worn fatigued
兀	(literary) rising to a height; towering; (literary) bald; bare
兀凳	Chinese-style low stool
兀立	to stand upright
兀自	(literary) still; yet
兀鷲	vulture
兀鷹	griffon vulture
允	just; fair; to permit
允准	to approve; to permit; approval
允宜	appropriate; apt
允文允武	equally proficient in intellectual and military affairs
允當	proper; suitable
允許	to permit; to allow
允諾	to promise; to consent (to do sth)
元	surname Yuan; Yuan dynasty (1279–1368)
元世祖	lit. progenitor of the Yuan Dynasty (1279-1368), title of Khubilai Khan (1215-1294), first Yuan dynasty emperor, reigned 1260-1294
元代	the Yuan or Mongol dynasty (1279-1368)
元件	element; component
元凶	chief offender; main culprit
元勛	leading light; founding father; principal proponent
元勳	leading light; founding father; principal proponent
元古代	Proterozoic (geological era 2500-540m years ago)
元古宙	pre-Cambrian (geological eon 2500-645m)
元史	History of the Yuan Dynasty, twenty third of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Song Lian 宋濂[Song4 Lian2] in 1370 during the Ming Dynasty, 210 scrolls
元器件	component
元夜	Lantern Festival; night of 15th of first lunar month
元太祖	posthumous title of Genghis Khan 成吉思汗[Cheng2 ji2 si1 han2] (1162-1227)
元好問	Yuan Haowen (1190-1257), famous poet Northern China during the Jin-Yuan transition
元宇宙	(computing) metaverse
元宵	Lantern Festival; night of the 15th of the first lunar month
元宵節	Lantern Festival, the final event of the Spring Festival 春節|春节, on 15th of first month of the lunar calendar
元寶	a silver or gold ingot; mock ingot (burnt as offering in worship)
元寶區	Yuanbao, a district of Dandong City 丹東市|丹东市[Dan1 dong1 Shi4], Liaoning
元寶山區	Yuanbaoshan, a district of Chifeng City 赤峰市[Chi4 feng1 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
元山	Wonsan city in Kangweon province 江原道 of North Korea
元山市	Wonsan city in Kangweon province 江原道 of North Korea
元帥	(military) marshal; commander-in-chief
元年	first year of an emperor's reign; first year of an era
元惡	arch-criminal; master criminal
元惡大憝	arch-criminal and archenemy (idiom)
元數據	metadata
元旦	New Year's Day
元旦節	New Year's Day
元曲	Yuan dynasty theater, including poetry, music and comedy
元曲四大家	Four Great Yuan Dramatists, namely: Guan Hanqing 關漢卿|关汉卿[Guan1 Han4 qing1], Zheng Guangzu 鄭光祖|郑光祖[Zheng4 Guang1 zu3], Ma Zhiyuan 馬致遠|马致远[Ma3 Zhi4 yuan3] and Bai Pu 白樸|白朴[Bai2 Pu3]
元月	first month (of either lunar or Western calendars)
元朗	Yuen Long town in northwest New Territories, Hong Kong
元朗市	Yuen Long town, Hong Kong Island
元朝	Yuan or Mongol dynasty (1279-1368)
元末	final years of Yuan dynasty (1279-1368); mid 14th century
元氏縣	Yuanshi, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
元氣	vigor; strength; vitality
元江哈尼族彝族傣族自治縣	Yuanjiang Hani, Yi and Dai Autonomous County, in Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
元神	primordial spirit; fundamental essence of life
元素	element (key component of sth); (chemistry) element
元素週期表	periodic table of the elements (chemistry)
元組	tuple
元老	senior figure; doyen; founding member; veteran
元老院	upper house; senate; senior statesmen's assembly
元肉	dried longan pulp
元胞自動機	cellular automaton
元詩四大家	the four masters of Yuan poetry, namely 虞集[Yu2 Ji2], 範梈|范梈[Fan4 Peng1], 楊載|杨载[Yang2 Zai4] and 揭傒斯[Jie1 Xi1 si1]
元認知	metacognition
元語言	metalanguage
元語言能力	metalinguistic ability
元謀縣	Yuanmou, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
元資料	metadata
元軍	Mongol army; army of Yuan dynasty
元配	first wife
元陽縣	Yuanyang, a county in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
元青	deep black
元音	vowel
元音和諧	vowel harmony (in phonetics of Altaic languages)
元首	head of state
元龍	one that has achieved the way; emperor
兄	elder brother
兄妹	brother(s) and sister(s)
兄嫂	elder brother and his wife
兄弟	brothers; younger brother
兄弟姐妹	brothers and sisters; siblings
兄弟會	fraternity
兄弟鬩於墻，外禦其侮	internal disunity dissolves at the threat of an invasion from outside (idiom)
兄弟鬩牆	internecine strife (idiom); fighting among oneself
兄臺	brother (polite appellation for a friend one's age)
兄長	elder brother; term of respect for a man of about the same age
充	sufficient; full; to fill; to serve as; to act as
充任	to fill a post of; to act as
充作	to serve as; to be a substitute for
充值	to recharge (money onto a card); to top up
充值卡	rechargeable card; to recharge a card
充公	to confiscate
充其量	at most; at best
充分	ample; sufficient; adequate
充分就業	full employment
充分考慮	to give sufficient consideration to
充塞	congestion; to block; to congest
充填	to fill (gap, hole, area, blank); to pad out; to complement
充填因數	complementary factor
充填物	filling material; stuffing; lining
充好	to substitute shoddy goods
充實	rich; full; substantial
充數	to make up the number (i.e. to fill places up to a given number)
充斥	to be full of; to flood; to congest
充暢	abundant and fluent; affluent and smooth
充氣	to pump air (into sth); to inflate
充氣船	inflatable boat
充氧	to oxygenate; to provide oxygen complement
充沛	abundant; plentiful
充溢	to overflow (with riches); replete
充滿	full of; brimming with; very full
充滿陽光	sun-drenched
充當	to serve as; to act as; to play the role of
充發	to banish to penal servitude
充盈	abundant; plentiful
充耳不聞	to block one's ears and not listen (idiom); to turn a deaf ear
充血	hyperemia (increase in blood flow); blood congestion
充裕	abundant; ample; plenty
充要條件	necessary and sufficient condition
充足	adequate; sufficient; abundant
充足理由律	sufficient grounds (law)
充軍	to banish (to an army post, as a punishment)
充電	to recharge (a battery)
充電器	battery charger
充電寶	power bank; portable charger
充電樁	electric vehicle charging point; EV charger
充電站	charging station (for electric vehicles)
充電頭	(coll.) wall charger; charging adapter
充飢	to allay one's hunger
兆	(bound form) omen; to foretell; million; mega-
兆周	megacycle (MC), equals 1,000,000 Hz
兆字節	megabyte (2^20 or approximately a million bytes)
兆瓦	megawatt
兆瓦時	megawatt-hour
兆瓦特	megawatt
兆赫	megahertz
兆電子伏	mega electron volt (MeV) (unit of energy equal to 1.6 x 10⁻¹³ joules)
兆頭	omen; portent; sign
兇	terrible; fearful
兇刀	knife used in a violent crime; murder weapon (knife)
兇器	lethal weapon; murder weapon
兇嫌	alleged killer (or attacker); suspect in a case of violent crime
兇宅	inauspicious abode; haunted house
兇悍	violent; fierce and tough; shrewish (woman)
兇惡	fierce; vicious
兇戾	cruel; tyrannical
兇手	murderer; assassin
兇案	murder case
兇死	to die in violence
兇殘	savage; cruel; fierce
兇殺	to murder; assassination
兇殺案	murder case
兇煞	demon; fiend
兇犯	murderer
兇狂	fierce; ferocious; savage
兇猛	fierce; violent; ferocious
兇相	ferocious appearance
兇相畢露	show one's ferocious appearance (idiom); the atrocious features revealed
兇神	demon; fiend
兇神惡煞	(idiom) fiends; devils; monsters
兇訊	evil tidings; bad news
兇身	murderer; killer
兇險	dangerous; ruthless; treacherous
兇頑	fierce and uncontrollable
先	beforehand; first; earlier; at first; originally
先下手為強	(idiom) strike first to gain the upper hand
先不先	(dialect) first of all; in the first place
先主	former ruler; founding ruler
先人	ancestor; forefather; sb's late father
先令	(loanword) shilling
先來後到	(idiom) in order of arrival; first come, first served
先例	precedent
先兆	omen
先入為主	(idiom) the first impression is the strongest; to hold a preconceived notion (about sth)
先公	(literary) my late father
先兵後禮	opposite of 先禮後兵|先礼后兵[xian1 li3 hou4 bing1]
先到先得	first come first served
先前	before; previously
先君	my late father; my ancestors; the late emperor
先哲	the wise and learned individuals of the past
先大母	my late paternal grandmother
先天	embryonic period (contrasted with 後天|后天[hou4 tian1])
先天下之憂而憂，後天下之樂而樂	to be the first to worry about affairs of state, and the last to enjoy oneself (quotation from the essay On Yueyang Tower 岳陽樓記|岳阳楼记[Yue4 yang2 Lou2 Ji4] by Song writer Fan Zhongyan 范仲淹[Fan4 Zhong4 yan1])
先天不足	to suffer from a congenital deficiency; to have an inherent weakness
先天不足，後天失調	to be born with a weak constitution and suffer from ill health during one's life
先天性	congenital; intrinsic; innate
先天性缺陷	birth defect
先天愚型	(old) Down syndrome; trisomy 21
先天與後天	nature versus nurture
先妣	(literary) my late mother
先容	to introduce sb, putting in a good word for them in advance
先導	to lead the way; guide; forerunner; pioneer
先帝遺詔	posthumous edict of a former emperor
先師	one's late teacher
先後	early or late; first and last; priority
先後順序	sequential order
先慈	(literary) my late mother
先斬後奏	(lit.) execute sb first, then report to the emperor (idiom)
先有	prior; preexisting
先有後婚	to marry after getting pregnant
先期	the time before a certain date; in advance; beforehand; premature
先期錄音	(filmmaking) to prerecord a musical soundtrack to which actors will later synchronize their performance during filming
先機	critical opportunity
先母	(literary) my late mother
先民	forebears
先決	prerequisite; necessary
先決問題	issue that needs to be addressed first (before another issue can be resolved)
先決條件	precondition; prerequisite
先河	source; precursor; forerunner
先漢	Western Han dynasty (206 BC–8 AD), aka 西漢|西汉[Xi1 Han4]
先烈	martyr
先父	deceased father; my late father
先王	former sovereigns
先王之政	the rule of former kings
先王之樂	the music of former kings
先王之道	the way of former kings
先生	teacher; gentleman; sir; mister (Mr.); husband
先發	to take preemptive action; (sports) to be in the starting lineup
先發制人	(idiom) to gain the initiative by striking first; to preempt
先發投手	(baseball) starting pitcher
先皇	emperor of a former dynasty
先睹為快	(idiom) to consider it a pleasure to be among the first to read (or watch or enjoy)
先知	a person of foresight; (religion) a prophet
先知先覺	having foresight; a person of foresight
先祖	(literary) my deceased grandfather; (literary) ancestors
先禮後兵	(idiom) try persuasion before resorting to force
先秦	pre-Qin, Chinese history up to the foundation of the Qin imperial dynasty in 221 BC
先聲	herald; precursor; harbinger
先聲奪人	to gain the upper hand by a show of strength
先行	to start off before the others; to precede; to proceed in advance
先行者	forerunner
先見	foresight; prescience
先見之明	foresight
先見者	a visionary
先覺	person of foresight
先賢	(literary) ancient sage
先走一步	to leave first (courteous expression used to excuse oneself)
先輩	an older generation; ancestors; forefathers
先進	sophisticated; advanced (technology etc)
先進個人	(official accolade) advanced individual; exemplary individual
先進先出	(computing, inventory management etc) first in, first out
先進武器	advanced weapon
先進水平	advanced level
先進集體	(official accolade) pace-setting team; exemplary group
先達	(literary) our learned predecessors
先遣隊	(military) advance party
先鋒	vanguard; pioneer; avant-garde
先鋒派	avant-garde
先鋒隊	vanguard
先鞭	to be the first; to lead the way
先頭	(usu. of troops) in advance; in the vanguard; previously
先驅	to pioneer; pioneer; trailblazer
先驅者	pioneer; trailblazer
先驗	(philosophy) a priori
先驗概率	(math.) prior probability
光	light; ray (CL:道[dao4]); bright; shiny; only; merely
光亮	bright
光亮度	brightness; luminosity
光伏	photovoltaic (e.g. cell)
光伏器件	photovoltaic device (e.g. solar cell)
光信號	optical signal
光光	bright; shiny; smooth
光刻	photolithography
光刻機	photolithography machine
光刻膠	photoresist (laser etching used in microelectronics)
光前裕後	to bring honor to one's ancestors and benefit future generations (idiom)
光功率	optical power
光動嘴	empty talk; mere rhetoric; palaver
光化作用	photochemical effect; photosynthesis; photolysis
光化學	photochemistry
光化性角化病	(medicine) actinic keratosis, aka solar keratosis
光合	(bound form) photosynthetic
光合作用	photosynthesis
光圈	aperture; diaphragm; halo
光大	splendid; magnificent
光天化日	the full light of day (idiom); fig. peace and prosperity
光子	photon (particle physics)
光學	optics
光學儀器	optical instrument
光學字符識別	optical character recognition (OCR)
光學雷達	lidar
光學顯微鏡	optical microscope
光宗耀祖	to bring honor to one's ancestors
光害	(Tw) light pollution
光射線	light ray
光導纖維	optical fiber
光山縣	Guangshan, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
光年	light-year
光度	luminosity
光彩	luster; splendor; radiance
光彩奪目	dazzling; brilliant
光影	light and shadow; sunlight and shade
光影效	lighting effect
光復	to recover (territory or power)
光復會	anti-Qing revolutionary party set up in 1904 under Cai Yuanpei 蔡元培[Cai4 Yuan2 pei2]
光怪陸離	monstrous and multicolored; grotesque and variegated
光感應	optical response; reaction to light; light sensitive
光接收器	optical receiver
光敏	photosensitive
光斑	facula (astronomy)
光明	light; radiance; (fig.) bright (prospects etc)
光明區	Guangming, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
光明日報	Guangming Daily, a Beijing newspaper
光明正大	(of a person) honorable; not devious
光明磊落	open and candid (idiom); straightforward and upright
光明節	Hanukkah (Chanukah), 8 day Jewish holiday starting on the 25th day of Kislev (can occur from late Nov up to late Dec on Gregorian calendar)
光是	solely; just
光景	circumstances; scene; about
光暈	halo; (photography) halation
光替	stand-in (for lighting and camera setup)
光束	light beam
光柱	light beam; light pillar (atmospheric optics)
光柵	(optics) grating (esp. diffraction grating); (computing) raster
光桿司令	commander without any soldiers; (fig.) leader without a team; solo entrepreneur
光棍	gangster; hoodlum; bachelor; single man
光棍兒	bachelor; single man (erhua form of 光棍[guang1 gun4])
光棍節	Singles' Day (November 11), originally a day of activities for single people, but now also the world's biggest annual retail sales day
光榮	honor and glory; glorious
光榮榜	honor roll
光榮革命	Glorious Revolution (England, 1688)
光標	cursor (computing)
光檢測器	optical detector
光氣	phosgene COCl2, aka carbonyl chloride, a poisonous gas
光污染	light pollution
光波	light wave
光波長	optical wavelength
光源	light source
光溜	smooth; slippery
光滑	glossy; sleek; smooth
光漆	gloss paint; glossy varnish; gloss-finish coating
光潔	bright and clean
光潤	glossy; lustrous; sleek
光澤	luster; gloss
光澤縣	Guangze, a county in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
光照	illumination
光照度	illuminance (physics)
光照治療	light therapy; phototherapy
光爆	explosion of light
光球	photosphere
光球層	photosphere
光環	ring of light; halo; (fig.) glory; splendor
光發送器	optical transmitter
光盤	compact disc (CD); DVD; CD-ROM
光盤驅動器	CD or DVD drive; abbr. to 光驅|光驱
光碟	optical disc; compact disc; CD
光磁	magneto-optical
光磁碟	magneto-optical disk; floptical disk
光磁碟機	magneto-optical drive; floptical drive
光祿勳	minister of the imperial household
光祿大夫	honorific title during Tang to Qing times, approx. "Glorious grand master"
光禿禿	bald; bare (no hair, no leaves, no vegetation etc)
光筆	light pen
光緒	reign name of penultimate Qing emperor Guangxu or Guang-hsu (1875-1908)
光緒帝	Guangxu Emperor
光線	light ray; light; illumination
光線追蹤	(computing) ray tracing
光纖	optical fiber; fiber optics
光纖分佈數據接口	Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI)
光纖分布式數據接口	Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI)
光纖分散式資料介面	(Tw) Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI)
光纖接口	optical interface
光纖衰減	optical attenuation
光纖電纜	optical fiber; optical cable
光纜	optical cable
光耀	dazzling; brilliant
光耀門楣	splendor shines on the family's door (idiom)
光耦	abbr. for 光耦合器[guang1 ou3 he2 qi4]
光耦合器	optocoupler (electronics)
光背地鶇	(bird species of China) plain-backed thrush (Zoothera mollissima)
光能	light energy (e.g. solar)
光能合成	photosynthesis
光腚腫菊	(Internet slang) punning reference to 廣電總局|广电总局[Guang3 dian4 Zong3 ju2], the National Radio and Television Administration (NRTA)
光腳	bare feet
光腳的不怕穿鞋的	lit. the barefooted people are not afraid of those who wear shoes (idiom)
光膀子	bare upper body; bare-chested; to bare one's chest
光臨	(formal) to honor with one's presence; to attend
光艷	bright and colorful; gorgeous
光芒	rays of light; brilliant rays; radiance
光芒萬丈	(idiom) boundless radiance; splendor
光華	brilliance; splendor; magnificence
光衝量	radiant exposure
光說不做	(idiom) to be all talk and no action; to preach what one does not practice
光說不練	all talk and no action (idiom); to preach what one does not practice
光譜	spectrum
光譜儀	spectrometer; spectrograph
光譜分析	spectral analysis
光譜圖	spectrogram
光譜學	spectroscopy
光貓	optical network terminal (ONT); optical network unit (ONU); optical modem
光輝	radiance; glory; brilliant
光輻射	light radiation
光追	ray tracing (abbr. for 光線追蹤|光线追踪[guang1 xian4 zhui1 zong1])
光通量	luminous flux (physics)
光速	the speed of light; (fig.) extremely quickly
光遺傳學	optogenetics
光量	quantity of light; luminosity
光錐	(physics) light cone
光陰	time available
光陰似箭	time flies like an arrow (idiom); How time flies!
光陰荏苒	(idiom) How time flies!
光隔離器	opto-isolator (electronics)
光電	photoelectric
光電二極管	photodiode
光電子	photoelectron
光電效應	photoelectric effect
光面內質網	smooth endoplasmic reticulum
光頭	shaven head; bald head; to go bareheaded
光頭強	Logger Vick (Boonie Bears character); nickname for bald people
光頭黨	skinheads
光顧	to visit (as a customer)
光風霽月	lit. light breeze and clear moon (idiom)
光驅	CD or DVD Drive; abbr. for 光盤驅動器|光盘驱动器
光鮮	bright and neat
光鹵石	(mineralogy) carnallite
光麵	plain noodles in broth
克	abbr. for 克羅地亞|克罗地亚[Ke4 luo2 di4 ya4], Croatia
克什克騰	Hexigten banner or Kesigüten khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
克什克騰旗	Hexigten banner or Kesigüten khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
克什米爾	Kashmir
克他命	ketamine (loanword)
克侖特羅	clenbuterol
克儉	thrifty; frugal
克利夫蘭	Cleveland
克利斯朵夫	Christopher (name)
克制	to restrain; to control; restraint
克勒	Keller or Köhler (name)
克勞修斯	Rudolf Clausius (1822-1888), German physicist and mathematician
克勞德	Claude (name)
克勞斯	Claus or Klaus (name)
克勤克儉	(idiom) industrious and frugal
克國	(Tw) abbr. for 克羅埃西亞|克罗埃西亚[Ke4 luo2 ai1 xi1 ya4] Croatia
克基拉島	Corfu (Greek: Kerkira), island in the Ionian sea
克婁巴特拉	Cleopatra (c. 70–30 BC), queen of Egypt
克孜勒	Kyzyl, capital of Tuva 圖瓦|图瓦[Tu2 wa3]
克孜勒蘇柯爾克孜自治州	Kizilsu Kyrgyz Autonomous Prefecture, in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
克孜勒蘇河	Qizilsu or Kizilsu River in Xinjiang
克孜爾千佛洞	Kezil thousand-Buddha grotto in Baicheng 拜城, Aksu 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区, Xinjiang
克孜爾尕哈	Kizilgaha, site of a famous fire beacon tower and cliff caves in Kuqa, Aksu Prefecture, Xinjiang
克山縣	Keshan, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
克己	self-restraint; discipline; selflessness
克己奉公	self-restraint and devotion to public duties (idiom); selfless dedication
克己復禮	restrain yourself and return to the rites (idiom, from Analects); to subdue self and observe proprieties
克拉	carat (mass) (loanword)
克拉克	(name) Clark or Clarke
克拉夫丘克	Leonid Kravchuk (1934-), first post-communist president of Ukraine 1991-1994
克拉斯諾亞爾斯克	Krasnoyarsk
克拉斯諾達爾	Krasnodar (city in Russia)
克拉瑪依區	Karamay, a district of Karamay City 克拉瑪依市|克拉玛依市[Ke4 la1 ma3 yi1 Shi4], Xinjiang
克拉瑪依市	Karamay, prefecture-level city in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
克拉科夫	Krakow
克拉通	craton (loanword)
克文	Kevin (name)
克日	to set a date; to set a time frame; within a certain time limit
克服	(try to) overcome (hardships etc); to conquer; to put up with
克朗	krone (currency of Norway, Denmark, Iceland and Sweden) (loanword)
克朗代克	Klondike in northwest Canada
克期	to set a date; to set a time frame; within a certain time limit
克東縣	Kedong, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
克林姆	cream (loanword)
克林姆醬	pastry cream; crème pâtissière
克林德	Clemens von Ketteler (1853–1900), German diplomat killed during the Boxer Rebellion 義和團運動|义和团运动[Yi4 he2 tuan2 Yun4 dong4]
克林頓	Clinton (name)
克林黴素	(pharmacology) clindamycin
克格勃	KGB (Soviet secret police); member of the KGB
克氏原螯蝦	red swamp crayfish (Procambarus clarkii); Louisiana crawfish
克氏黑鰭鰁	Cherskii's thicklip gudgeon (Sarcocheilichthys czerskii), a species of cyprinid fish endemic to the Amur River basin
克汀病	cretinism
克沙奇病毒	Coxsackievirus
克流感	(Tw) Tamiflu
克漏字	cloze (loanword) (Tw)
克爾白	Ka'aba, sacred building in Mecca
克紹箕裘	to follow in one's father's footsteps
克絲鉗子	wire cutting pincers
克維拉	Kevlar
克羅地亞	Croatia
克羅地亞共和國	Republic of Croatia
克羅地亞語	Croatian (language)
克羅埃西亞	Croatia (Tw)
克羅諾斯	Cronus (Titan of Greek mythology)
克耶族	Kaya or Karenni ethnic group of Myanmar
克耶邦	Kaya state of Myanmar
克莉奧佩特拉	Cleopatra (c. 70–30 BC), queen of Egypt
克萊	Clay (name)
克萊因	Klein or Kline (name); Felix Klein (1849-1925), German mathematician
克萊斯勒	Chrysler (car manufacturer)
克萊爾	Claire (name)
克萊爾蒙特	(place name) Claremont or Clermont
克萊蒙	(French place name) Clermont
克萊蒙特	(place name) Claremont or Clermont
克萊頓	(name) Clayton or Crichton
克蕾兒	Clare (name)
克蘇魯	Cthulhu, fictional cosmic entity created by writer H. P. Lovecraft
克虜伯	Krupp
克西	xi (Greek letter Ξ, ξ)
克賴斯特徹奇	Christchurch (New Zealand city)
克里奧爾語	creole language
克里姆林宮	the Kremlin
克里斯托弗	(Warren) Christopher
克里斯汀	(name) Christine, Kristine, Kristen, Kristin etc; Christiane
克里斯汀·貝爾	Christian Bale (1974-), English actor
克里斯蒂娃	Julia Kristeva (1941-), Bulgarian-French psychoanalyst, philosopher and literary critic
克里斯蒂安	Kristian or Christian (name)
克里斯蒂安松	Kristiansund (city in Norway)
克里普斯	Cripps (name)
克里木	Crimea; the Crimean peninsula
克里木半島	Crimea; the Crimean peninsula
克里木戰爭	the Crimean War (1853-1856)
克里特	Crete
克里特島	Crete
克里米亞	Crimea
克隆	(biology) (loanword) to clone; a clone
克隆人	clone human
克隆技術	cloning technology
克隆氏病	Crohn's disease
克雅氏病	Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD)
克難	to make do in difficult circumstances by being resourceful
克雷伯氏菌屬	(microbiology) Klebsiella
克霉唑	clotrimazole (antifungal agent)
兌	to cash; to exchange; to add (liquid)
兌付	to cash (a check)
兌換	to convert; to exchange
兌換率	currency exchange rate
兌獎	to cash in a winning ticket; to redeem a prize
兌現	(of a check etc) to cash; to honor a commitment
免	to excuse sb; to exempt; to remove or dismiss from office
免不了	unavoidable; can't be avoided
免不得	unavoidable; bound to (happen)
免冠	bareheaded (in a photo)
免去職務	to relieve from office; to sack
免受	to avoid suffering; to prevent (sth bad); to protect against (damage)
免受傷害	to avoid damage
免單	to let a customer have (a product or service) free of charge; to waive payment; to comp
免得	so as not to; so as to avoid
免息	interest-free
免持	(Tw) hands-free (telephone function)
免掉	to eliminate; to scrap
免提	hands-free (telephone function)
免於	to be saved from; to be spared (something)
免洗杯	disposable cup (Tw)
免洗筷	(Tw) disposable chopsticks
免疫	immunity (to disease)
免疫力	immunity
免疫反應	immune response
免疫學	immunology
免疫應答	immune response
免疫法	immunization
免疫系統	immune system
免票	not to be charged for admission; (to be admitted) for free; free pass
免禮	(formal) you may dispense with curtseying
免稅	not liable to taxation (of monastery, imperial family etc); tax free
免簽	to waive visa requirements; visa exemption; visa-exempt
免職	to relieve sb of his post; to sack; to demote
免談	out of the question; pointless to discuss it
免責	exemption from responsibility
免責條款	disclaimer
免責聲明	disclaimer
免費	free (of charge)
免費搭車	free riding (economics)
免費軟件	freeware
免賠	(insurance) excess
免賠條款	franchise clause (insurance)
免遭	to avoid suffering; to avoid meeting (a fatal accident); spared
免開尊口	keep your thoughts to yourself
免除	to prevent; to avoid; to excuse
免黜	to dismiss; to fire; to degrade
兒	non-syllabic diminutive suffix; retroflex final
兒不嫌母醜，狗不嫌家貧	a son won't abandon his mother for being ugly, just as a dog won't abandon its owner for being poor (proverb)
兒化	(Chinese phonetics) to rhotacize a syllable final; to apply r-coloring to the final of a syllable
兒化音	(Chinese phonetics) erhua (the sound of the r-coloring of a syllable final)
兒化韻	(Chinese phonetics) syllable final with r-coloring; rhotacized syllable final
兒女	children; sons and daughters; a young man and a young woman (in love)
兒女英雄傳	The Gallant Maid, novel by Manchu-born Qing dynasty writer 文康[Wen2 Kang1]
兒女雙全	to have both a son and a daughter
兒媳	daughter-in-law
兒媳婦	daughter-in-law
兒媳婦兒	erhua form of 兒媳婦|儿媳妇[er2 xi2 fu4]
兒子	son
兒孫	descendant
兒孫自有兒孫福	younger generations will do all right on their own (idiom)
兒戲	child's play; trifling matter
兒時	childhood
兒歌	nursery rhyme
兒科	pediatrics
兒童	child
兒童基金會	UNICEF (United Nations Children's fund)
兒童樂園	children's play area
兒童權利公約	Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC)
兒童節	Children's Day
兒茶素	catechin (biochemistry)
兒馬	(coll.) male horse; stallion
兔	rabbit
兔唇	hare lip (birth defect)
兔子	hare; rabbit
兔子不吃窩邊草	(lit.) a rabbit never eats the grass beside its own burrow (saying)
兔子尾巴長不了	rabbits don't have long tails (idiom); its days are numbered
兔崽子	brat; bastard
兔年	Year of the Rabbit (e.g. 2011)
兔徑	narrow winding path
兔斯基	Tuzki, a Chinese cartoon rabbit character used in emoticons and stickers, created in 2006
兔死狐悲	lit. if the rabbit dies, the fox grieves (idiom); fig. to have sympathy with a like-minded person in distress
兔死狗烹	(lit.) when the rabbit is dead, the hunting dogs are cooked (idiom)
兔熱病	tularemia; rabbit fever
兔爸	toolbar (in computer software) (loanword)
兔猻	Pallas's cat (Otocolobus manul)
兕	animal cited in ancient texts, resembling a buffalo (some say rhinoceros or female rhinoceros)
兕觥	ancient type of drinking vessel
兗	used in 兗州|兖州[Yan3 zhou1] (the name of a place in Shandong)
兗州區	Yanzhou, a district of Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
兙	(old) contracted variant of 十克[shi2 ke4]
兛	(old) contracted variant of 千克[qian1 ke4]
兜	pocket; bag; to wrap up or hold in a bag
兜兜	an undergarment covering chest and abdomen
兜兜轉轉	(lit. and fig.) to go around and around; to wander around
兜售	to hawk; to peddle
兜圈子	to encircle; to go around; to circle
兜帽	hood
兜底	to provide a safety net
兜抄	to close in from the rear and flanks; to surround and attack; to mop up (remnant enemy troops)
兜捕	to round up (fugitives); to corner and arrest
兜攬	to canvas (for customers); to solicit; to advertise
兜翻	to expose; to turn over
兜肚	undergarment covering the chest and abdomen
兜賣	to peddle; to hawk (pirate goods)
兜鍪	(archaic) battle helmet
兜頭	full in the face
兜風	to catch the wind; to go for a spin in the fresh air
兝	(old) contracted variant of 分克[fen1 ke4]
兞	(old) contracted variant of 毫克[hao2 ke4]
兟	to advance
兡	(old) contracted variant of 百克[bai3 ke4]
兢	to be fearful; apprehensive
兢兢業業	(idiom) conscientious; assiduous
兣	(old) contracted variant of 釐克|厘克[li2 ke4]
入	to enter; to go into; to join; to become a member of
入不敷出	income does not cover expenditure; unable to make ends meet
入世	to engage with secular society; to involve oneself in human affairs
入主	to invade and take control of (a territory); to take the helm at (an organization); (of a company) to take control of (another company)
入仕	(literary) to become an official
入伍	to enter the army; to enlist
入伍生	newly enlisted officer student; cadet
入伏	the hottest part of summer sets in
入伙	to join a group; to become a member
入住	to check in (at a hotel etc); to move into (a house)
入侵	to invade
入侵物種	invasive species
入侵者	intruder
入冬	winter sets in
入口	entrance; to import
入口就化	to melt in one's mouth
入口網	Web portal; (enterprise) portal
入口頁	web portal
入味	tasty; to be absorbed in sth; interesting
入圍	to get past the qualifying round; to make it to the finals
入圍者	finalist; qualifier; person or item selected as one of the best
入園	to enter a park or other place for public recreation (typically, one whose name ends in 園|园: a zoo 動物園|动物园[dong4 wu4 yuan2], amusement park 遊樂園|游乐园[you2 le4 yuan2] etc)
入團	to enroll in the Communist Youth League
入土	to bury; buried; interred
入土為安	buried and at rest (idiom); Resquiescat in pacem (RIP)
入場	to enter the venue for a meeting; to enter into an examination
入場券	admission ticket; (fig.) qualification to enter a higher-level competition or field
入場式	ceremonial entry; opening procession
入場費	admission fee
入境	to enter a country
入境問俗	When you enter a country, enquire about the local customs (idiom); do as the natives do
入境簽證	entry visa
入境隨俗	when in Rome, do as the Romans do
入夏	summer sets in
入夜	at nightfall
入學	to enter a school or college
入學率	percentage of children who enter school
入定	(Buddhism) to enter a meditative state
入局	to enter the game; to get involved; to walk into a scam
入席	to take one's seat
入座	to take one's seat
入微	down to the smallest detail; thoroughgoing; fine and detailed
入息	income (Hong Kong)
入情入理	sensible and reasonable (idiom)
入戲	(of an actor) to inhabit one's role; to become the character
入戶	to enter sb's house; to obtain a residence permit
入手	to begin (with ...) (typically used in a structure such as 從|从[cong2] + {noun} + 入手[ru4 shou3]: "to begin with {noun}; to take {noun} as one's starting point")
入托	(of a child) to start daycare
入教	to join a religion
入春	to enter spring; spring begins
入時	fashionable
入會	to join a society, association etc
入月	(of women) beginning of menstrual cycle; full-term gestation
入木三分	written in a forceful hand; penetrating; profound
入樽	slam dunk
入殮	to put dead body in coffin
入海口	estuary
入涅	to enter nirvana (Buddhism)
入獄	to go to jail; to be sent to prison
入球	to score a goal; goal
入盟	to join (e.g. union or alliance)
入眠	to fall asleep
入眼	to appear before one's eyes; pleasing to the eye; nice to look at
入睡	to fall asleep
入神	to be engrossed; to be absorbed
入稟	(HK) to file a lawsuit; to initiate legal proceedings
入籍	to become naturalized; to become a citizen
入罪	to criminalize (an activity)
入罪化	to criminalize (an activity)
入聖	to become an arhat (Buddhism)
入聯	to join the United Nations
入聲	entering tone; checked tone; one of the four tones of Middle Chinese
入職	to commence employment; to enter a company
入肉	to have intercourse; to fuck
入股	to invest
入藥	to use in medicine
入行	to enter a profession
入贅	to go and live with one's wife's family, in effect becoming a member of her family
入超	trade deficit; import surplus
入軌	to enter orbit
入迷	to be fascinated; to be enchanted
入道	to enter the Way; to become a Daoist
入選	to be included among those selected for
入鄉隨俗	(idiom) when in Rome, do as the Romans do
入門	entrance door; to enter a door
入門課程	introductory course; primer
入關	to enter a pass; to go through customs
入關學	theory proposed in 2019 on Chinese social media, centering on the idea of China replacing the United States as the dominant nation in a new world order, drawing an analogy with the Manchu overthrow of the Ming dynasty, achieved after the Qing army entered China via the Shanhai Pass 入關|入关[ru4 guan1]
入院	to enter hospital; to be hospitalized
入風口	air intake vent
入黨	to join a political party (esp. the Communist Party)
內	inside; inner; internal
內丘縣	Neiqiu, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
內中	within it; among them
內丹	Taoist internal alchemy
內亂	internal disorder; civil strife; civil unrest
內人	my wife (humble)
內側	inner side
內傳	biography recounting apocryphal anecdotes and rumors
內傷	internal injury
內兄	wife's older brother
內內	(coll.) panties
內八字腳	intoeing; pigeon toes; knock-knees
內六角圓柱頭螺釘	hexagon socket head cap screw
內六角扳手	Allen key; hex key
內出血	internal bleeding; internal hemorrhage
內分泌	endocrine (internal secretion, e.g. hormone)
內分泌腺	endocrine gland
內切	(math.) to inscribe; internally tangent
內切球	inside cut (golf); (math.) inscribed sphere; insphere
內刊	internal publication
內務	internal affairs; domestic affairs; family affairs
內務府	Imperial Household Department (in Qing dynasty)
內務部	Ministry of Internal Affairs
內勤	clerical work in the office; office work; office staff; clerk
內化	internalization; to internalize
內卡河	Neckar River in Germany
內卷	(embryology) to involute; involution
內參	restricted document, available only to certain individuals such as high-ranking Party officials (abbr. for 內部參考|内部参考)
內向	reserved (personality); introverted; (economics etc) domestic-oriented
內含	to contain; to include
內唇	epipharynx (entomology); inner part of the lip
內啡素	endorphin
內啡肽	endorphin
內在	inner; internal; intrinsic
內在幾何	intrinsic geometry
內在幾何學	intrinsic geometry
內在座標	(geometry) intrinsic coordinates
內在美	inner beauty
內在超越	inner transcendence (perfection through one's own inner moral cultivation, as in Confucianism, for example)
內地	mainland China (PRC excluding Hong Kong and Macau, but including islands such as Hainan)
內城	inner castle; donjon
內場	inner area (of a place that has an outer area)
內塔尼亞胡	Netanyahu (name)
內外	inside and outside; domestic and foreign; approximately
內外兼修	(of a person) beautiful inside and out
內奸	undiscovered traitor; enemy within one's own ranks
內娛	mainland China's entertainment industry
內存	internal storage; computer memory; random access memory (RAM)
內存儲器	(computing) main memory; RAM
內定	to select sb for a position without announcing the decision until later
內室	inner room; bedroom
內容	content; substance; details
內容管理系統	content management system (CMS) (Internet)
內容量	net contents
內射	to ejaculate in the vagina or anus
內層	internal layer
內布拉斯加	Nebraska, US state
內帑	(historical) imperial privy purse; palace treasury
內幕	inside story; non-public information; behind the scenes
內幕交易	insider trading; insider dealing
內廷	place at the imperial court, where emperor handled government affairs, gave orders etc
內建	built-in
內弟	wife's younger brother
內徑	internal diameter
內心	heart; innermost being; (math.) incenter
內心世界	(one's) inner world
內心戲	psychological drama
內心深處	deep in one's heart
內急	to need to answer the call of nature
內情	inside story; inside information
內憂外困	internal trouble and outside aggression (idiom); in a mess both domestically and abroad
內憂外患	internal trouble and outside aggression (idiom); in a mess both domestically and abroad
內戰	civil war
內推	(math.) interpolation
內插	to install (hardware) internally (rather than plugging it in as a peripheral)
內搭褲	leggings (Tw)
內政	internal affairs (of a country)
內政部	Ministry of the Interior
內政部警政署	National Police Agency (Tw)
內政部長	Minister of the Interior
內斂	introverted; reserved; (artistic style) understated
內斜視	(medicine) esotropia; cross-eye
內服	to take medicine orally (as opposed to applying externally)
內核	core (of a fruit); (fig.) the essence (of a concept or doctrine etc)
內比都	Naypyidaw or Nay Pyi Taw, capital of Myanmar
內江市	Neijiang, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
內河	river that flows only within a country's borders; inland waterway (esp. for transportation, in contrast to coastal or maritime waters)
內流	inward flowing (of river); flowing into desert
內流河	inward flowing river
內海	inland sea
內涵	meaningful content; implication; (semantics) connotation
內涵意義	(semantics) connotative meaning; connotation
內測	(software development) to do closed beta (or internal beta) testing
內湖	Neihu District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
內湖區	Neihu District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
內源	source
內澇	waterlogged
內熵	internal entropy (physics)
內燃	(attributive) internal combustion
內燃機	internal combustion engine
內燃機車	diesel locomotive
內營力	internal force; endogenic force
內爆	to implode
內爆法原子彈	implosion atomic bomb
內用	to eat in (at a restaurant) (Tw); to take the medicine orally
內田	Uchida (Japanese surname)
內疚	guilty conscience; to feel a twinge of guilt
內皮	(med.) endothelium
內省	to reflect upon oneself; introspection
內省性	introversion; introspective
內眥	(anatomy) medial canthus; inner corner of the eye
內眷	the females in a family; womenfolk
內眼角	inner corner of the eye
內碼	internal code
內科	internal medicine; general medicine
內科學	internal medicine
內科醫生	medical doctor; physician who works primarily by administering drugs, as opposed to surgeon 外科醫生|外科医生[wai4 ke1 yi1 sheng1]
內稃	(botany) palea
內積	(math.) inner product; (in Euclidean space) dot product
內窺鏡	endoscope
內細胞團	inner cell mass (ICM)
內經	abbr. for 黃帝內經|黄帝内经[Huang2 di4 Nei4 jing1], The Yellow Emperor's Internal Canon, medical text c. 300 BC
內線	inside source; mole; insider; inside information; insider connections
內線交易	insider trading
內線消息	inside information
內置	built-in; internal
內羅畢	Nairobi, capital of Kenya
內耗	internal friction; internal dissipation of energy (in mechanics)
內耳	inner ear
內耳道	internal auditory meatus (canal in temporal bone of skull housing auditory nerves)
內聯	(computing) inline
內聯網	intranet
內胎	inner tube (of a tire)
內胚層	endoderm (cell lineage in embryology)
內能	internal energy
內膜	inner membrane; internal lining (of an organ or body cavity)
內膽	inner container (e.g. the rice pot inside a rice cooker, the vacuum bottle inside a thermos, the tank inside a hot water heater, the bladder of a football)
內臟	internal organs; viscera
內臣	chamberlain
內華達	Nevada, US state
內蒙古大學	Inner Mongolia University
內蒙古自治區	Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, capital Hohhot 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4] (short name 蒙[Meng3])
內行	expert; adept; experienced
內行看門道，外行看熱鬧	while the connoisseur recognizes the artistry, the layman simply enjoys the show
內衣	undergarment; underwear
內衣褲	underwear
內袋	inner pocket
內裝	filled with; internal decoration; installed inside
內裡	the inside
內褲	underpants; panties; briefs
內襯	lining (of a container etc) (engineering)
內視鏡	endoscope
內觀	to introspect; to examine oneself
內訌	internal strife
內詳	name and address of the sender enclosed; details inside
內貿	domestic trade
內賈德	Mahmoud Ahmadinejad (1956-), Iranian fundamentalist politician, president of Iran 2005-2013
內賓	guest from the same country
內質網	endoplasmic reticulum (ER)
內購	buying direct from your company at preferential prices
內踝	medial malleolus
內部	interior; inside (part, section); internal
內部事務	internal affairs
內部矛盾	internal contradiction
內部網	intranet
內部鬥爭	internal power struggle
內鄉縣	Neixiang, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
內酯	lactone
內酰胺酶	beta-lactamase (a bacterial inhibitor)
內野	(baseball) infield
內野手	(baseball) infielder
內銷	to sell in the domestic market; domestic market
內閣	(government) cabinet
內閣總理大臣	formal title of the Japanese prime minister
內院	inner courtyard (in a courtyard house)
內陸	inland; interior
內陸國	landlocked country
內陸河	inland river; river draining to inland sea
內需	domestic demand
內飛地	exclave (our land inside them)
內飾	interior decor
內餡	(Tw) filling; stuffing (in pastries, dumplings etc)
內鬥	internal strife; power struggle
內鬼	mole; spy; rat
內黃縣	Neihuang, a county in Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
全	all; whole; entire
全世界	worldwide; entire world
全世界第一	world's first
全乎	(coll.) complete; comprehensive
全份	complete set
全休	complete rest (after an illness)
全優	overall excellence
全副	completely
全副武裝	fully armed; armed to the teeth; fig. fully equipped
全副精力	to concentrate entirely on sth; fully engaged; with full force
全力	with all one's strength; full strength; all-out (effort)
全力以赴	(idiom) to make an all-out effort
全勝	total victory; to excel by far; name of a tank
全勤	(of an individual) to have a perfect attendance record
全南縣	Quannan, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
全同	identical
全向	in all directions
全員	all personnel; the whole staff
全國	whole nation; nationwide; countrywide
全國人大	National People's Congress (NPC) (abbr. for 全國人民代表大會|全国人民代表大会[Quan2 guo2 Ren2 min2 Dai4 biao3 Da4 hui4])
全國人大常委會	Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (abbr. for 全國人民代表大會常務委員會|全国人民代表大会常务委员会[Quan2 guo2 Ren2 min2 Dai4 biao3 Da4 hui4 Chang2 wu4 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
全國人大會議	National People's Congress (NPC)
全國人民代表大會	National People's Congress (NPC)
全國人民代表大會常務委員會	Standing Committee of the National People's Congress
全國代表大會	national general congress
全國性	national
全國民主聯盟	Myanmar or Burma National league for democracy (NLD)
全國運動會	National Games, Chinese athletics competition, organized every four years since 1959
全國重點文物保護單位	National Key Cultural Relics Protection Unit
全地形車	all-terrain vehicle (ATV)
全城	whole city
全域	the entire area; the entire domain; global; domain-wide
全場	everyone present; the whole audience; across-the-board
全場一致	unanimous
全壘打	home run (baseball)
全天	whole day
全天候	all-weather; 24-hour
全套	complete set; full complement
全家	FamilyMart (convenience store chain)
全家福	photograph of the entire family; hodgepodge (cookery)
全局	overall situation
全局作用域	(computing) global scope
全局性	global
全局模塊	global module
全屍	intact corpse; dead body with no parts missing
全屏	(computing) fullscreen
全州市	Jeonju city, capital of North Jeolla Province, in west South Korea
全州縣	Quanzhou, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
全市	whole city
全年	the whole year; all year long
全度音	whole tone (musical interval)
全影	total shadow; umbra
全復	completely; totally recovered; healed
全心	with heart and soul
全心全意	(idiom) heart and soul; wholeheartedly
全息	holographic
全情	wholeheartedly
全情投入	to put one's heart and soul into
全才	all-rounder; versatile
全拼	(computing) full pinyin (input method where the user types pinyin without tones, e.g. "shiqing" for 事情[shi4 qing5])
全損	(insurance) total loss
全攻全守	total football (soccer)
全數	the entire sum; the whole amount
全文	entire text; full text
全文搜索	full-text search
全文檢索	full-text search
全斗煥	Chun Doo Hwan (1931-), South Korean politician, president 1980-1988
全新	all new; completely new
全新世	(geology) the Holocene Epoch
全新紀	(geology) the Holocene Epoch
全新統	holocene system (geological strata laid down during the last 12000 years)
全方位	all around; omnidirectional; complete
全日制	full-time (schooling, work etc)
全日空	All Nippon Airways (ANA)
全時工作	(Tw) full-time work
全景	panoramic view
全書	entire book; unabridged book
全會	plenary session (at a conference)
全本	whole edition; whole performance (of Chinese opera)
全棧	full technology stack; full-stack
全椒縣	Quanjiao, a county in Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
全橋	H bridge (electronics)
全權	full powers; total authority; plenipotentiary powers
全權代表	plenipotentiary; fully authorized representative
全權大使	plenipotentiary ambassador
全殲	to annihilate; to wipe out completely; to exterminate
全民	entire population; all the people (of a country or society)
全民健保	National Health Insurance (Tw) (abbr. for 全民健康保險|全民健康保险[Quan2 min2 Jian4 kang1 Bao3 xian3])
全民健康保險	National Health Insurance (Tw)
全民公決	referendum
全民投票	referendum; plebiscite
全民皆兵	to bring the entire nation to arms (idiom)
全民英檢	General English Proficiency Test (GEPT), commissioned by Taiwan's Ministry of Education in 1999
全活	to save life; to rescue; the whole business with all its processes
全港	whole territory of Hong Kong
全無	none; completely without
全無準備	completely unprepared
全然	completely
全熟	thoroughly cooked; (of steak) well done; (of eggs) hard-boiled
全熟蛋	hard-boiled egg
全燒祭	burnt offering (Judaism)
全班	the whole class
全球	the whole world; worldwide; global
全球位置測定系統	GPS (Global Positioning System)
全球化	globalization
全球南方	(geopolitics) the Global South
全球定位系統	GPS (Global Positioning System)
全球性	global; worldwide
全球暖化	global warming (Taiwan and Hong Kong usage); written 全球變暖|全球变暖 in PRC
全球氣候	global climate
全球氣候升溫	global warming
全球氣候變暖	global warming
全球而言	globally; worldwide
全球衛星導航系統	Globalnaya Navigatsionaya Satelinaya Sistema or Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS), the Russian equivalent of GPS
全球變暖	global warming (PRC usage); written 全球暖化 in Taiwan
全球資訊網	(Tw) World Wide Web
全球通	Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) (telecommunications)
全盛	flourishing; at the peak; in full bloom
全盤	overall; comprehensive
全省	the whole province
全知	omniscient
全知全能	(idiom) omniscient and omnipotent
全神貫注	(idiom) to concentrate one's attention completely; with rapt attention
全票	full-priced ticket; by unanimous vote
全科醫生	general practitioner
全程	the whole distance; from beginning to end
全稱	full name
全穀物	whole grain
全端工程師	full-stack developer (computing)
全等	(geometry) congruent
全等圖形	congruent figure (geometry)
全等形	(math.) congruent figure
全節流	full throttle; top speed
全純	holomorphic (math.)
全素	vegan
全素食	vegan
全網	the entire Internet
全線	the whole front (in a war)
全編	complete edition
全羅北道	North Jeolla Province, in west South Korea, capital Jeonju 全州[Quan2 zhou1]
全羅南道	South Jeolla Province, in southwest South Korea, capital Gwangju 光州[Guang1 zhou1]
全羅道	Jeolla or Cholla Province of Joseon Korea, now divided into North Jeolla Province 全羅北道|全罗北道[Quan2 luo2 bei3 dao4] and South Jeolla Province 全羅南道|全罗南道[Quan2 luo2 nan2 dao4]
全美	throughout the United States; the whole of America
全美廣播公司	National Broadcasting Company (NBC)
全聚德	Quanjude (famous Chinese restaurant)
全聯	PX Mart (supermarket chain in Taiwan)
全職	full-time (job)
全職太太	housewife; stay-at-home wife
全能	omnipotent; all-round; strong in every area
全般	entire
全色	full color; in all colors
全蝕	total eclipse
全裸	completely naked; stark naked
全託	full-time care (of children in a boarding nursery)
全豹	the full picture (i.e. the whole situation); panorama
全貌	complete picture; full view
全責	full responsibility
全資附屬公司	wholly owned subsidiary
全跏坐	crossed leg posture (usu. of Buddha)
全距	range (of a set of data) (statistics)
全身	the whole body; (typography) em
全身心	wholeheartedly; (to devote oneself) heart and soul
全身性紅斑狼瘡	systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)
全身而退	(idiom) to escape unscathed; to get through in one piece
全身鏡	full-length mirror
全身麻醉	general anesthesia
全軍	whole army
全軍覆沒	total defeat of an army (idiom); fig. a complete wipeout
全輪驅動	all-wheel drive
全速	top speed; at full speed
全運會	abbr. for 全國運動會|全国运动会[Quan2 guo2 Yun4 dong4 hui4]
全部	whole; all
全都	all; without exception
全錄	Xerox (Tw)
全長	overall length; span
全陪	tour escort (throughout the entire tour)
全集	omnibus; complete works (of a writer or artist)
全面	all-around; comprehensive; total
全面禁止	complete prohibition; total ban
全面禁止核試驗條約	Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
全音	whole tone (musical interval)
全額	the full amount; full (compensation, scholarship, production etc)
全食	total eclipse
全馬	full marathon (abbr. for 全程馬拉松|全程马拉松[quan2 cheng2 ma3 la1 song1])
全體	all; entire
全體人員	crew
全體會議	general congress; meeting of the whole committee
全鬚全尾兒	(Beijing dialect) intact; in one piece
全麥	whole wheat
全麻	general anesthesia (abbr. for 全身麻醉[quan2 shen1 ma2 zui4])
兩	two; both; some
兩下	twice; for a little while
兩下子	a couple of times; to repeat the same; the same old trick
兩不相欠	to be even; to be quits; to be even-steven
兩不誤	to neglect neither one
兩伊戰爭	Iran-Iraq War (1980-1988)
兩個中國	two-China (policy)
兩倍	twice as much; double the amount
兩側	two sides; both sides
兩側對稱	bilateral symmetry
兩儀	heaven and earth; yin and yang
兩全	to satisfy both sides; to accommodate both (demands)
兩全其美	to satisfy rival demands (idiom); to get the best of both worlds
兩分法	(Maoism) one divides into two
兩千年	the year 2000; 2000 years
兩口兒	husband and wife; couple
兩口子	husband and wife
兩句	(say) a few words
兩回事	two quite different things; two unrelated matters
兩國	both countries; the two countries
兩國之間	between the two countries; bilateral
兩國相爭，不斬來使	when two kingdoms are at war, they don't execute envoys (idiom)
兩宋	the Song dynasty (960-1279)
兩小無猜	innocent playmates
兩岸	bilateral; both shores; both sides
兩岸三地	China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau (media term used esp. since 1997)
兩廂情願	both sides are willing; by mutual consent
兩廣	the two provinces of Guangdong and Guangxi (traditional)
兩廣總督	Governor of Guangdong and Guangxi
兩彈一星	(China's achievements of) producing an atomic bomb (1964) and hydrogen bomb (1967) and launching a satellite into space (1970)
兩德	two Germanies
兩性	male and female
兩性動物	hermaphrodite creature
兩性差距	disparity between the sexes
兩性平等	equality between the sexes
兩性異形	sexual dimorphism
兩性花	hermaphrodite flower
兩性離子	(chemistry) zwitterion
兩情兩願	by mutual consent (north China dialect)
兩情相悅	(of a couple) to be harmonious; to be each other's sunshine
兩手	one's two hands; two prongs (of a strategy)
兩手空空	empty-handed (idiom); fig. not receiving anything
兩手策略	two-pronged strategy
兩把刷子	ability; skill
兩敗俱傷	both sides suffer (idiom); neither side wins
兩方	both sides (in contract); the two opposing sides (in a dispute)
兩旁	both sides; either side
兩星期	fortnight
兩會	National People's Congress and Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference
兩棲	amphibious; dual-talented; able to work in two different lines
兩棲動物	amphibian; amphibious animals
兩棲類	class Amphibia; amphibians
兩極	the two poles; the north and south poles; both ends of sth
兩極分化	polarization
兩極化	to polarize; polarization; polarized; divergent
兩樣	not the same; different
兩樣東西	two distinct things
兩步路	a step away; very close
兩江道	Ryanggang province province in north North Korea, adjacent to Jilin province
兩河	the areas to the north and south of the Yellow River (in the Spring and Autumn Period)
兩河文明	Mesopotamian civilization
兩河流域	Mesopotamia
兩清	to square accounts (between borrower and lender or between buyer and seller)
兩湖	Hubei 湖北 and Hunan 湖南 provinces
兩漢	Han dynasty (206 BC-220 AD); refers to the Western Han and Eastern Han
兩生類	(biology) class Amphibia
兩用	dual-use
兩當縣	Liangdang, a county in Longnan City 隴南市|陇南市[Long3 nan2 Shi4], Gansu
兩相	two-phase (physics)
兩相情願	both sides are willing; by mutual consent
兩眼一摸黑	(of sb in an unfamiliar situation) helpless and disoriented
兩碼事	two things that are fundamentally different from each other; two very different things
兩立	to coexist; coexistence
兩端	both ends (of a stick etc); two extremes
兩節棍	nunchaku
兩翼	both wings (of a bird, aircraft or building); (military) both flanks
兩者	both of them; the two of them
兩耳不聞窗外事	to pay no attention to outside matters
兩肋插刀	(lit.) to take knives in both sides (idiom)
兩腳架	bipod (supporting a machine gun etc)
兩虎相爭	(lit.) two tigers fighting (idiom)
兩虎相爭，必有一傷	(lit.) if two tigers fight, one will get injured (idiom)
兩袖清風	lit. both sleeves flowing in the breeze (idiom); having clean hands
兩訖	received and paid for (business term); the goods delivered and the bill settled
兩造	both parties (to a lawsuit); plaintiff and defendant
兩邊	either side; both sides
兩重	dual; twofold
兩重天	two entirely different worlds; two contrasting realities
兩院	two chambers (of legislative assembly), e.g. House of Representatives and Senate
兩院制	bicameralism; bicameral legislative system
兩難	dilemma; quandary; to be faced with a difficult choice
兩面	both sides
兩面三刀	two-faced, three knives (idiom); double-cross
兩面人	two-faced person
兩面刃	double-edged sword
兩面派	two-faced person; double-dealing
兩面針	shiny-leaf prickly-ash (Zanthoxylum nitidum)
兩頭	both ends; both parties to a deal
兩頰生津	mouth-watering; to whet one's appetite
兩餸飯	(HK) meal of rice with two dishes
兩鬢斑白	(idiom) to have gray hair at the temples
兩點水	name of the "ice" radical 冫[bing1] in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 15)
兩黨制	two-party system
八	eight
八一五	15th August, the anniversary of Japan's surrender in 1945
八九不離十	pretty close; very near; about right
八二三炮戰	bombardment of Kinmen by PRC forces that started August 23rd 1958, also called the Second Taiwan Strait Crisis
八二丹	eight-to-two powder (TCM)
八仙	the Eight Immortals (Daoist mythology)
八仙桌	old-fashioned square table to seat eight people
八仙過海，各顯神通	lit. the Eight Immortals cross the sea, each showing his own special talent (idiom)
八佰伴	Yaohan retail group
八倍體	octoploid
八八六	Bye bye! (in chat room and text messages)
八公山區	Bagongshan, a district of Huainan City 淮南市[Huai2 nan2 Shi4], Anhui
八分之一	one eighth
八分音符	quaver; eighth note
八加一	(slang) alcohol; liquor (euphemistic substitute for 酒[jiu3], from 8+1=9, 九[jiu3] being a homophone of 酒[jiu3])
八十	eighty; 80
八十天環遊地球	Around the World in Eighty Days by Jules Verne 儒勒·凡爾納|儒勒·凡尔纳[Ru2 le4 · Fan2 er3 na4]
八卦	the eight divinatory trigrams of the Book of Changes 易經|易经[Yi4 jing1]
八卦山	Bagua Mountain, Taiwan
八卦拳	baguazhang (a form of Chinese boxing)
八卦掌	baguazhang (a form of Chinese boxing)
八卦陣	eight-trigram battle array; (fig.) mystifying tactics
八哥	(bird species of China) crested myna (Acridotheres cristatellus)
八哥狗	pug (breed of dog)
八國聯軍	Eight-Nation Alliance, involved in a military intervention in northern China in 1900
八國集團	G8 (group of eight major industrialized nations)
八塊腹肌	six pack (abdominal muscles)
八大元老	"the Eight Great Eminent Officials" of the CCP, namely 鄧小平|邓小平[Deng4 Xiao3 ping2], 陳雲|陈云[Chen2 Yun2], 李先念[Li3 Xian1 nian4], 彭真[Peng2 Zhen1], 楊尚昆|杨尚昆[Yang2 Shang4 kun1], 薄一波[Bo2 Yi1 bo1], 王震[Wang2 Zhen4], and 宋任窮|宋任穷[Song4 Ren4 qiong2]
八大工業國組織	G8 (group of eight major industrialized nations)
八大菜系	the eight major cuisines of China, namely 川魯粵蘇浙閩湘徽|川鲁粤苏浙闽湘徽[Chuan1 Lu3 Yue4 Su1 Zhe4 Min3 Xiang1 Hui1]
八婆	meddling woman; nosy parker (Cantonese)
八字	the character 8 or 八; birthdate characters used in fortune-telling
八字命理	divination based on the eight characters of one's birth date
八字形	shape resembling the character 八 or 8; V-shape; splayed
八字方針	a policy expressed as an eight-character slogan
八字步	step with feet splayed outwards
八字沒一撇	lit. there is not even the first stroke of the character 八[ba1] (idiom)
八字眉	sloping eyebrows, formed like character for "eight"
八字腳	splayfoot
八字還沒一撇	lit. not even the first stroke of the character 八[ba1] has been written (idiom)
八字還沒一撇兒	lit. there is not even the first stroke of the character 八[ba1] (idiom)
八字鬍	mustache shaped like character 八
八字鬍鬚	mustache shaped like character 八
八家將	Ba Jia Jiang, the eight generals that guard the godly realm in Taiwanese folklore, represented by troupes of dancers in temple processions
八宿縣	Pasho, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
八寶丹	eight-jewel elixir (TCM)
八寶山	Babaoshan, a hill in Shijingshan District, Beijing, site of the Babaoshan Revolutionary Cemetery 八寶山革命公墓|八宝山革命公墓[Ba1 bao3 shan1 Ge2 ming4 Gong1 mu4]
八寶山革命公墓	Babaoshan Revolutionary Cemetery in Shijingshan District, Beijing
八寶眼藥	eight-jewel eye ointment (TCM)
八寶粥	rice congee made with red beans, lotus seeds, longan, red dates, nuts etc
八寶飯	Eight Treasures Rice, Chinese rice pudding dessert usually made with eight types of candied fruits, nuts, seeds etc, popular during the Lunar New Year
八小時工作制	eight-hour workday system
八岐大蛇	Yamata no Orochi, serpent with eight heads and eight tails from mythological section of Nihon Shoki (Chronicles of Japan)
八帶蛸	(Shandong dialect) octopus
八帶魚	octopus
八度	octave
八廓	Barkhor, pilgrim circuit around Jokhang temple in Lhasa, Tibet
八廓街	Barkhor street, central business area and pilgrim circuit around Jokhang temple in Lhasa, Tibet
八強	(sports) top eight; quarterfinals
八強賽	quarterfinals
八成	eighty percent; most probably; most likely
八戒	the eight precepts (Buddhism)
八抬大轎	palanquin with eight carriers; (fig.) lavish treatment
八拜之交	sworn brotherhood; intimate friendship
八方	the eight points of the compass; all directions
八旗	Eight Banners, military organization of Manchu later Jin dynasty 後金|后金[Hou4 Jin1] from c. 1600, subsequently of the Qing dynasty
八旗制度	Eight Banners system, the military and social organization of the Manchus between c. 1500 and 1911
八旗子弟	child of a Manchu bannerman family (nobility); (fig.) privileged brat
八旬	80 years; one's eighties; 80 days
八會穴	the eight influential points (acupuncture)
八月	August; eighth month (of the lunar year)
八月之光	Light in August (novel by William Faulkner 威廉·福克納|威廉·福克纳[Wei1 lian2 · Fu2 ke4 na4])
八月份	August
八極拳	Ba Ji Quan "Eight Extremes Fist" - Martial Art
八榮八恥	Eight Honors and Eight Shames, PRC official moral guidelines
八正道	the Eight-fold Noble Way (Buddhism)
八步區	Babu, a district of Hezhou City 賀州市|贺州市[He4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
八段錦	eight-section brocade, a traditional eight-part sequence of qigong exercises
八沖	eight surges (a group of eight acupoints in Chinese acupuncture, namely PC-9, TB-1, HT-9 and LV-3, bilaterally)
八法	eight methods of treatment (TCM)
八法拳	Ba Fa Quan "Eight Methods" - Martial Art
八爪魚	octopus
八珍湯	eight-treasure decoction, tonic formula used in Chinese medicine
八疸	eight (types of) jaundices (TCM)
八疸身面黃	eight types of jaundice with yellowing of body and face (TCM)
八目鰻	lamprey (jawless proto-fish of family Petromyzontidae)
八相成道	the eight stages of the Buddha's life (Buddhism)
八竿子打不著	(coll.) unrelated; lacking any connection
八級工	grade 8 worker (highest on the eight grade wage scale)
八級工資制	eight grade wage scale (system)
八級風	force 8 wind; fresh gale
八綱	(TCM) the eight principal syndromes (used to differentiate pathological conditions): yin and yang, exterior and interior, cold and heat, hypofunction and hyperfunction
八綱辨證	pattern-syndrome identification based on the eight principles (TCM)
八美	Bamay in Dawu County 道孚縣|道孚县[Dao4 fu2 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
八老	"the Eight Great Eminent Officials" of the CCP, abbr. for 八大元老[Ba1 Da4 Yuan2 lao3]
八聲杜鵑	(bird species of China) plaintive cuckoo (Cacomantis merulinus)
八股	an essay in eight parts; stereotyped writing
八股文	eight-part essay one had to master to pass the imperial exams in Ming and Qing dynasties
八般頭風	(TCM) eight kinds of "head wind" (headache)
八苦	the eight distresses - birth, age, sickness, death, parting with what we love, meeting with what we hate, unattained aims, and all the ills of the five skandhas (Buddhism)
八萬大藏經	Tripitaka Koreana, Buddhist scriptures carved on 81,340 wooden tablets and housed in the Haein Temple 海印寺[Hai3 yin4 si4] in South Gyeongsang province of South Korea
八行書	formal recommendation letter in eight columns
八角	anise; star anise; aniseed
八角床	traditional-style canopy bed
八角形	octagon
八角楓	alangium
八角籠	MMA octagon (octagonal cage used for mixed martial arts bouts)
八角茴香	Chinese anise; star anise; Fructus Anisi Stellati
八角街	Barkhor street, central business area and pilgrim circuit around Jokhang temple in Lhasa, Tibet, aka 八廓街[Ba1 kuo4 Jie1]
八路軍	Eighth Route Army, the larger of the two major Chinese communist forces fighting the Japanese in the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937-1945)
八輩子	(fig.) a long time
八進制	octal
八達嶺	Badaling, a particular section of the Great Wall that is a favorite tourist destination
八達通	Octopus (Hong Kong smart card system for electronic payments)
八達通卡	Octopus card (Hong Kong smart card for electronic payments)
八邊形	octagon
八重奏	octet (musical ensemble)
八開	octavo
八面玲瓏	be smooth and slick (in establishing social relations)
八面體	octahedron
八音	ancient classification system for musical instruments, based on the material of which the instrument is made (metal 金, stone 石, clay 土, leather 革, silk 絲|丝, wood 木, gourd 匏, bamboo 竹)
八音盒	music box
八風穴	"eight wind points", name of a set of acupuncture points (EX-LE-10), four on each foot
八點檔	8:00 p.m. time slot (on television)
公	public; collectively owned; common
公丈	decameter
公主	princess
公主嶺市	Gongzhuling, a county-level city in Siping City 四平市[Si4 ping2 Shi4], Jilin
公主抱	to carry sb the way grooms carry brides across the threshold
公主病	(neologism c. 1997) (coll.) self-entitlement
公主車	ladies bicycle
公之於世	(idiom) to announce to the world; to make public; to let everyone know
公之於眾	to make known to the masses (idiom); to publicize widely
公了	to settle in court (opposite: 私了[si1 liao3])
公事	work-related matters; documents
公事公辦	to do things in a strictly businesslike manner (idiom)
公事包	(Tw) briefcase
公事房	(old) government office
公交	public transportation; mass transit
公交卡	IC card used for paying fares on public transportation systems such as buses and subways
公交站	public transport station
公交車	public transport vehicle; town bus
公仔	doll; cuddly toy
公仔麵	brand of Hong Kong instant noodles
公休	to have a public holiday; to have an official holiday
公休日	public holiday
公佈欄	bulletin board
公使	minister
公使館	embassy (old term); foreign mission
公信力	public trust; credibility
公倍式	common multiple expression
公倍數	common multiple
公假	official leave from work (e.g. maternity leave, sick leave or leave to attend to official business)
公債	government bond
公債券	government bond; public bond
公傷	(law) injury sustained in the course of official or public duty
公僕	public servant
公允	equitable; fair
公允價值	fair value (accounting)
公元	CE (Common Era); Christian Era; AD (Anno Domini)
公元前	BCE (before the Common Era); BC (before Christ)
公克	gram
公兩	hectogram
公公	husband's father; father-in-law; grandpa; grandad
公共	public; common; communal
公共事業	public utility; state-run enterprise
公共交換電話網	public switched telephone network (PSTN)
公共交通	public transport; mass transit
公共休息室	shared lounge; common room
公共假期	public holiday
公共團體	public organization
公共場所	public place
公共安全罪	crime against public order
公共汽車	bus
公共汽車站	bus stop; bus station
公共知識分子	public intellectual (sometimes used derogatorily)
公共秩序	public order
公共行政	public administration
公共衛生	public health
公共設施	public facilities; infrastructure
公共財產	public property
公共道德	public morality; social ethics
公共開支	public expenditure
公共關係	public relations
公共零點	common zeros (of system of equations)
公出	to be away on business
公函	official letter
公分	centimeter (cm); (old) gram (g)
公分母	(math.) common denominator
公判	public opinion; public announcement of verdict at a trial
公制	metric system
公制單位	metric units
公務	official business
公務人員	government functionary
公務員	civil servant; public servant
公務艙	business class (travel class on airplanes, trains etc)
公募	public placement (investing)
公勺	serving spoon; centiliter (i.e. 10 ml)
公升	liter
公卿	high-ranking officials in the court of a Chinese emperor
公司	company; firm; corporation
公司三明治	club sandwich
公司債	corporate bonds (finance)
公司會議	company meeting
公司治理	corporate governance
公司法	corporations law; company law; corporate law
公司理財	company finance; corporate finance
公司行號	(Tw) companies; businesses
公合	deciliter
公告	post; announcement
公哈	male husky (dog)
公噸	ton; metric ton
公因子	(math.) common factor
公因式	common factor; common divisor (of a math. expression)
公國	duchy; dukedom; principality
公園	park (for public recreation)
公地	public land; land in common use
公地悲劇	tragedy of the commons (economics)
公堂	law court; hall (in castle)
公報	announcement; bulletin; communique
公報私仇	to use public office to avenge private wrongs
公墓	public cemetery
公婆	husband's parents; parents-in-law
公子	son of an official; son of nobility; your son (honorific)
公子哥兒	pampered son of a wealthy family
公孫	two-character surname Gongsun
公孫起	Gongsun Qi (-258 BC), famous general of Qin 秦國|秦国, the victor at 長平|长平 in 260 BC
公孫龍	Gongsun Long (c. 325-250 BC), leading thinker of the School of Logicians of the Warring States Period (475-220 BC)
公學	elite fee-charging independent school in England or Wales (e.g. Eton College)
公安	(Ministry of) Public Security; public safety; public security
公安官員	public safety officials
公安局	public security bureau (government office similar in function to a police station)
公安機關	public security bureau
公安縣	Gong'an, a county in Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
公安部	Ministry of Public Security
公室	office (room); ruling families during Spring and Autumn period
公害	environmental pollution; social scourge; blight on society
公宴	banquet hosted by an organization to honor a distinguished figure
公家	the public; the state; society
公家機關	civil service
公寓	apartment building; block of flats (may be a public housing block or a condominium etc) (CL:套[tao4])
公寓大樓	apartment building
公寓樓	apartment building
公審	public trial (in a court of law)
公寸	decimeter
公對公	B2B; business-to-business; (of a connector) male-to-male
公尺	(Tw) meter (unit of length)
公屋	(HK) public housing estate
公差	tolerance (allowed error); common difference (of an arithmetic series)
公布	to announce; to make public; to publish
公帑	(literary) public funds
公平	fair; impartial
公平交易	fair dealing
公平合理	fair; equitable
公平審判權	the right to a fair trial
公平競爭	fair competition
公平貿易	fair trade
公幹	official business; to do official business
公府	government post in Han dynasty
公廁	public toilet
公式	formula
公式化	to formalize; formalism in art (esp. as proscribed in USSR and PRC)
公引	hectometer
公德	public ethics; social morality
公德心	civility; public spirit
公心	fair-mindedness; public spirit
公憤	public anger; popular indignation
公房	public housing; dormitory, esp. for unmarried people
公投	referendum (abbr. for 公民投票[gong1 min2 tou2 piao4])
公推	elected by acclamation; recommended by all
公撮	milliliter
公擔	quintal (100 kg)
公敵	public enemy
公文	official document
公文包	briefcase; attaché case
公斗	decaliter
公斤	kilogram (kg)
公斷	arbitration (law)
公映	public screening (of a movie)
公曆	Gregorian calendar; solar calendar
公會	guild; professional or trade association
公有	publicly owned; communal; held in common
公有制	public ownership
公有化	to nationalize; to take over as communal property
公案	judge's desk; complex legal case; contentious issue
公模	(manufacturing) off-the-shelf mold (as opposed to a custom or proprietary mold)
公檢法	public security authorities, acronym from 公安局[gong1 an1 ju2], 檢察院|检察院[jian3 cha2 yuan4] and 法院[fa3 yuan4]
公款	public money
公正	just; fair; equitable
公母倆	husband and wife
公毫	centigram
公民	citizen
公民投票	plebiscite; referendum
公民權	civil rights; citizenship rights
公民權利	civil rights
公民權利和政治權利國際公約	International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR)
公民社會	civil society
公民義務	civil obligation; a citizen's duty
公民表決	referendum; decided by public vote
公決	public decision (by ballot); majority decision; a joint decision
公法	public law; international law
公派	to send sb abroad at the government's expense
公海	the high seas; international waters
公測	(software development) to do beta testing
公演	to perform in public; to give a performance
公然	openly; publicly; undisguised
公然表示	to state openly
公燕	banquet held for high-ranking imperial or feudal officials
公營	public; publicly (owned, financed, operated etc); run by the state
公營企業	public enterprise, as opposed to private enterprise 私營企業|私营企业[si1 ying2 qi3 ye4]
公營經濟	the public sector of the economy
公爵	duke; dukedom
公爵夫人	duchess
公爹	husband's father
公版	(publishing) public-domain; copyright-expired
公牛	bull
公物	public property
公犬	male dog
公理	self-evident truth; (math.) axiom
公理法	the axiomatic method
公產	public property
公用	public; for public use
公用交換電話網	(Tw) public switched telephone network (PSTN)
公用電話	public phone
公畜	stud; male animal kept to breed offspring
公畝	are (1 are = 1⁄100 hectare, or 100 m²)
公益	public good; public welfare; public interest
公益事業	service to the public; public welfare undertaking; charity
公益活動	charity event; public service activities
公益金	public welfare funds; community chest
公眾	public
公眾人物	public figure; famous person
公眾意見	public opinion
公眾號	official account (esp. on WeChat)
公眾集會	public meeting
公知	public intellectual (sometimes used derogatorily) (abbr. for 公共知識分子|公共知识分子[gong1 gong4 zhi1 shi5 fen4 zi3])
公石	hectoliter; quintal
公示	to make known to the public (for information or to seek comments)
公社	commune
公祭	public memorial service
公私	public and private (interests, initiative etc)
公私兼顧	to adequately take into account both public and private interests
公私合營	joint public private operation
公秉	kiloliter
公租房	public housing
公稱	nominal
公積金	official reserves; accumulated fund
公立	public (e.g. school, hospital)
公立學校	public school
公章	official seal
公筷	serving chopsticks
公筷母匙	(Tw) serving chopsticks and serving spoons used in communal dining to promote hygiene
公糧	grain collected by the government as tax
公約	convention (i.e. international agreement)
公約數	(math.) common factor; common divisor
公網	(computing) public network; wide area network; Internet
公署	government office
公羊	ram (male sheep)
公羊傳	Mr Gongyang's Annals or commentary on 春秋[Chun1 qiu1], early history, probably written by multiple authors during Han dynasty, same as 公羊春秋[Gong1 yang2 Chun1 qiu1]
公羊春秋	Mr Gongyang's Annals or commentary on 春秋[Chun1 qiu1], early history, probably written during Han dynasty, same as 公羊傳|公羊传[Gong1 yang2 Zhuan4]
公義	righteousness
公而忘私	for the common good and forgetting personal interests (idiom); to behave altruistically
公職	civil service; public office; government job
公職人員	civil servant
公聽會	public hearing
公股	government stake
公舉	public election
公衛	public health (abbr. for 公共衛生|公共卫生[gong1 gong4 wei4 sheng1])
公設	(math.) postulate
公設比	(Tw) shared-facilities ratio (expressed as a percentage of the total floor space of a building)
公訴	public prosecution; criminal prosecution
公訴人	district attorney; public prosecutor; procurator
公認	publicly known (to be); accepted (as)
公說公有理，婆說婆有理	both sides claim they're right (idiom)
公論	public opinion
公諸同好	to share pleasure in the company of others (idiom); shared enjoyment with fellow enthusiasts
公諸於世	to announce to the world (idiom); to make public; to let everyone know
公證	to notarize; notarization
公證人	notary; actuary
公證處	notary office
公議	public discussion
公豬	boar
公豬異味	boar taint, the taste or odor of sweat or urine in pork from uncastrated pigs
公貓	male cat; tomcat
公買公賣	buying and selling at fair prices
公費	at public expense
公費醫療	medical treatment at public expense
公路	highway; road
公路網	road network
公路自行車	racing bicycle; road bike
公路賽	road race
公路車	racing bicycle (abbr. for 公路自行車|公路自行车[gong1 lu4 zi4 xing2 che1])
公車	bus; abbr. for 公共汽車|公共汽车[gong1 gong4 qi4 che1]
公轉	orbital revolution
公辦	state-run
公道	justice; fairness; public highway
公里	kilometer
公釐	millimeter
公錢	decagram
公鑰	(cryptography) public key
公開	open; overt; public; to make public; to release
公開信	open letter
公開化	to make public; to bring into the open
公開討論會	open forum
公開賽	(sports) open championship; open (as in "the US Open")
公關	public relations
公雞	cock; rooster
公頃	hectare
公館	residence (of sb rich or important); mansion
公馬	male horse; stallion; stud
公鹿	stag; buck
六	used in place names
六一兒童節	Children's Day (June 1st), PRC national holiday for children under 14
六二五事變	Korean War (dating from North Korean invasion on 25th Jun 1950)
六二五戰爭	the Korean War (started June 25 1950)
六價	hexavalent
六公主	nickname for CCTV-6 (China Movie Channel)
六分之一	one sixth
六分儀	sextant
六分儀座	Sextans (constellation)
六十	sixty; 60
六十四卦	the 64 hexagrams of the Book of Changes 易經|易经[Yi4 jing1]
六十年代	the sixties; the 1960s
六合	the six directions (north, south, east, west, up, down)
六合八法	Liuhe Bafa - "Six Harmonies, Eight Methods" - Martial Art
六合區	Luhe, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
六合彩	Mark Six (Hong Kong lotto game)
六四	refers to Tiananmen incident of 4th June 1989
六四事件	Tiananmen Incident of June 4, 1989
六塊腹肌	six-pack (abs)
六字真言	the six-syllable Sanskrit mantra of Avalokiteshvara bodhisattva (i.e. om mani padme hum)
六安市	Lu'an, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
六宮	empress and imperial concubines or their residence
六家	Six schools of pre-Han philosophy, as analyzed by 司馬談|司马谈[Si1 ma3 Tan2] (儒家[Ru2 jia1], 道家[Dao4 jia1], 陰陽|阴阳[yin1 yang2], 法家[Fa3 jia1], 名家[Ming2 jia1], and 墨家[Mo4 jia1])
六庫	Liuku or Lutku, capital of Nujiang Lisu autonomous prefecture 怒江傈僳族自治州 in Yunnan
六扇門	seat of the government; yamen; (in wuxia stories) special police force
六方	hexagonal
六方最密堆積	hexagonal close-packed (HCP) (math.)
六方會談	Six-Party Talks (2003–2007) on North Korea's nuclear program, involving China, the US, North Korea, South Korea, Japan and Russia
六日戰爭	the Six-Day War of June 1967 between Israel and its Arab neighbors
六旬	60 years; one's sixties; 60 days
六書	Six Methods of forming Chinese characters, according to Han dictionary Shuowen 說文|说文 - namely, two primary methods: 象形 (pictogram), 指事 (ideogram), two compound methods: 會意|会意 (combined ideogram), 形聲|形声 (ideogram plus phonetic), and two transfer methods: 假借 (loan), 轉注|转注 (transfer)
六月	June; sixth month (of the lunar year)
六月份	June
六朝	Six Dynasties (220-589)
六朝四大家	Four Great Painters of the Six Dynasties, namely: Cao Buxing 曹不興|曹不兴[Cao2 Bu4 xing1], Gu Kaizhi 顧愷之|顾恺之[Gu4 Kai3 zhi1], Lu Tanwei 陸探微|陆探微[Lu4 Tan4 wei1] and Zhang Sengyou 張僧繇|张僧繇[Zhang1 Seng1 you2]
六朝時代	the Six Dynasties period (222-589) between Han and Tang
六枝特區	Liuzhi Special District, a district of Liupanshui City 六盤水市|六盘水市[Liu4 pan2 shui3 Shi4], Guizhou
六氟化硫	sulfur hexafluoride
六氟化鈾	uranium hexafluoride (UF6)
六淫	(TCM) six excesses causing illness, namely: excessive wind 風|风[feng1], cold 寒[han2], heat 暑[shu3], damp 濕|湿[shi1], dryness 燥[zao4], fire 火[huo3]
六環路	Sixth ring road (Beijing), opened in 2008
六甲	(place name)
六畜	six domestic animals, namely: pig, cow, sheep, horse, chicken and dog
六盤山	Liupan Mountains, mountain range in northern China
六盤水市	Liupanshui, prefecture-level city in Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
六碳糖	hexose (CH2O)6, monosaccharide with six carbon atoms, such as glucose 葡萄糖[pu2 tao5 tang2]
六神	the six spirits that rule the vital organs (heart 心[xin1], lungs 肺[fei4], liver 肝[gan1], kidneys 腎|肾[shen4], spleen 脾[pi2] and gall bladder 膽|胆[dan3])
六神無主	out of one's wits (idiom); distracted; stunned
六級士官	sergeant major
六經	Six Classics, namely: Book of Songs 詩經|诗经[Shi1 jing1], Book of History 尚書|尚书[Shang4 shu1], Book of Rites 儀禮|仪礼[Yi2 li3], the lost Book of Music 樂經|乐经[Yue4 jing1], Book of Changes 易經|易经[Yi4 jing1], Spring and Autumn Annals 春秋[Chun1 qiu1]
六腑	(TCM) the six hollow organs: gallbladder 膽|胆[dan3], stomach 胃[wei4], large intestine 大腸|大肠[da4 chang2], small intestine 小腸|小肠[xiao3 chang2], triple heater 三焦[san1 jiao1], bladder 膀胱[pang2 guang1]
六芒星	six-pointed star; hexagram
六藝	the Confucian Six Arts, namely: rites or etiquette 禮|礼[li3] (禮儀|礼仪[li3 yi2]), music 樂|乐[yue3] (音樂|音乐[yin1 yue4]), archery 射[she4] (射箭[she4 jian4]), charioteering 御[yu4] (駕車|驾车[jia4 che1]), calligraphy or literacy 書|书[shu1] (識字|识字[shi2 zi4]), mathematics or reckoning 數|数[shu4] (計算|计算[ji4 suan4])
六親	six close relatives, namely: father 父[fu4], mother 母[mu3], older brothers 兄[xiong1], younger brothers 弟[di4], wife 妻[qi1], male children 子[zi3]
六親不認	not recognizing one's family (idiom); self-centered and not making any allowances for the needs of one's relatives
六親無靠	orphaned of all one's immediate relatives (idiom); no one to rely on
六角	hexagon
六角形	hexagon
六角括號	tortoise shell brackets 〔〕
六角星	six-pointed star; hexagram
六角螺帽	hexagonal nut
六邊形	hexagon
六邪	(TCM) six unhealthy influences causing illness, namely: excessive wind 風|风[feng1], cold 寒[han2], heat 暑[shu3], damp 濕|湿[shi1], dryness 燥[zao4], fire 火[huo3]
六陳	food grains (rice, wheat, barley, beans, soybeans, sesame)
六面體	hexahedron
六韜	“Six Secret Strategic Teachings”, one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1], attributed to Jiang Ziya 姜子牙[Jiang1 Zi3 ya2]
六韜三略	"Six Secret Strategic Teachings" 六韜|六韬[Liu4 tao1] and "Three Strategies of Huang Shigong" 三略[San1 lu:e4], two of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1], attributed to Jiang Ziya 姜子牙[Jiang1 Zi3 ya2]
兮	(particle in old Chinese similar to 啊)
兮兮	(particle used to exaggerate certain adjectives, in particular 神經兮兮|神经兮兮, 髒兮兮|脏兮兮, 可憐兮兮|可怜兮兮, and 慘兮兮|惨兮兮)
共	common; general; to share
共乘	to ride together; to carpool
共事	to work together
共享	to share; to enjoy together
共享函數庫	shared library (computing)
共享帶寬	shared bandwidth
共享庫	shared library (computing)
共享程序庫	shared library (computing)
共享計劃	joint project; partnership
共享軟體	shareware
共價鍵	covalent bond (chemistry)
共刺激	(immunology) costimulation; costimulatory
共匪	communist bandit (i.e. PLA soldier (during the civil war) or Chinese communist (Tw))
共同	common; joint; jointly
共同主持人	(Tw) (in a research project) co-principal investigator, or co-PI
共同利益	common interest; mutual benefit
共同基金	mutual fund
共同社	Kyōdō, Japanese news agency
共同綱領	common program
共同體	community
共同點	common ground
共和	republic; republicanism
共和制	republic
共和國	republic
共和政體	republican system of government
共和派	Republican faction
共和縣	Gonghe, a county in Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海南藏族自治州[Hai3 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
共和黨	Republican Party
共和黨人	a Republican party member
共商	to jointly discuss; to discuss together (business)
共商大計	to discuss matters of vital importance
共存	to coexist
共存性	compatibility; the possibility of mutual coexistence
共工	God of Water
共建房	co-op owned house
共形	conformal
共性	overall character
共患難	to go through hardship together
共情	to empathize
共振	resonance (physics)
共時	synchronic; concurrent
共有	in total there are ...; to own jointly
共棲	(old) (biology) to have a commensal relationship with (another organism)
共業	collective karma (Buddhism); consequences that all must suffer
共模	common-mode (electronics)
共模抑制比	(electronics) common-mode rejection ratio (CMRR)
共濟會	Freemasonry
共焦	confocal (math.)
共犯	accomplice
共生	symbiosis
共產	(adj.) communist; communism; to collectivize ownership of property
共產主義	communism
共產主義青年團	the Communist Youth League
共產國際	Communist International or Comintern (1919-1943), also known as the Third International 第三國際|第三国际[Di4 san1 Guo2 ji4]
共產黨	Communist Party
共產黨員	Communist Party member
共產黨宣言	Manifesto of the Communist Party
共用	to share the use of; to have joint use of
共管	to administer jointly
共線	(geometry) collinear
共處	to coexist; to get along (with others)
共行車道	carpool lane
共襄善舉	to cooperate in a charity project
共襄盛舉	to cooperate on a great undertaking or joint project
共計	to sum up to; to total
共話	to discuss together
共謀	to scheme together; to conspire; joint plan
共謀罪	conspiracy
共謀者	conspirator
共識	common understanding; consensus
共讀	shared reading (parent-child, classroom, reading group etc); to engage in shared reading
共贏	mutually profitable; win-win
共赴	joint participation; to go together
共軛	(math., physics, chemistry) to be conjugate
共軛不盡根	(math.) conjugate surd
共軛複數	(math.) complex conjugate
共通	universal; applicable to all (or both); shared; common
共通性	commonality; universality
共青團	the Communist Youth League, abbr. for 共產主義青年團|共产主义青年团[Gong4 chan3 zhu3 yi4 Qing1 nian2 tuan2]
共青城市	Gongqingcheng, a county-level city in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
共面	(geometry) coplanar
共鳴	(physics) to resonate; resonance; sympathetic response
共黨	Communist Party (abbr. for 共產黨|共产党[Gong4 chan3 dang3])
兲朝	(derog.) the Chinese Communist regime (variant of 天朝[Tian1 chao2] Celestial Empire, invented to circumvent censorship)
兵	soldiers; a force; an army
兵不厭詐	(idiom) deception is justified in war
兵不血刃	lit. no blood on the men's swords (idiom); fig. an effortless victory
兵亂	confusion of war; turmoil of war
兵來將擋，水來土掩	counter soldiers with arms, water with an earth weir (idiom); different situations call for different action
兵來將敵，水來土堰	counter soldiers with arms, water with an earth weir (idiom); different situations call for different action
兵刃	(bladed) weapons
兵制	military system
兵力	military strength; armed forces; troops
兵卒	soldiers; troops
兵員	soldiers; troops
兵器	weaponry; weapons; arms
兵器術	martial arts involving weapons
兵團	large military unit; formation; corps
兵士	ordinary soldier
兵家	the School of the Military, one of the Hundred Schools of Thought 諸子百家|诸子百家[zhu1 zi3 bai3 jia1] of the Warring States Period (475-220 BC)
兵家常事	commonplace in military operations (idiom)
兵工廠	munitions factory
兵差	labor conscripted to support the military
兵庫	Hyōgo (prefecture in Japan)
兵強馬壯	lit. strong soldiers and sturdy horses (idiom)
兵役	military service
兵戈	weapons; arms; fighting
兵戈擾攘	arms and confusion (idiom); turmoil of war
兵戎	arms; weapons
兵戎相見	to meet on the battlefield (idiom)
兵推	war-gaming; simulation of a military operation (abbr. for 兵棋推演[bing1 qi2 tui1 yan3])
兵敗如山倒	troops in defeat like a landslide (idiom); a beaten army in total collapse
兵書	a book on the art of war
兵棋推演	war-gaming; simulation of a military operation
兵權	military leadership; military power
兵法	art of war; military strategy and tactics
兵源	manpower resources (for military service); sources of troops
兵營	military camp; barracks
兵燹	(literary) ravages of war
兵痞	army riffraff; army ruffian; soldier of fortune
兵種	(military) branch of the armed forces
兵站	army service station; military depot
兵精糧足	elite soldiers, ample provisions (idiom); well-prepared forces
兵臨城下	soldiers at the city walls (idiom); fig. at a critical juncture
兵船	man-of-war; naval vessel; warship
兵艦	warship
兵荒馬亂	(idiom) war-torn; ravaged by war; in a state of utter chaos
兵蟻	soldier ant; dinergate
兵變	mutiny
兵貴神速	lit. speed is a crucial asset in war (idiom)
兵連禍結	ravaged by successive wars; war-torn; war-ridden
兵部	Ministry of War (in imperial China)
兵隊	troops
兵餉	pay and provisions for soldiers
兵馬	troops and horses; military forces
兵馬俑	figurines of warriors and horses buried with the dead
兵馬未動，糧草先行	before the troops move, fodder and provisions go first (idiom); logistics comes before military maneuvers
其	his; her; its
其一	one of the given (options etc); the first; firstly
其三	thirdly; the third
其中	among; in; included among these
其二	secondly; the other (usu. of two); the second
其他	other; (sth or sb) else; the rest
其來有自	there is a reason for it; (of sth) not incidental
其先	previously; before that; up to then
其內	included; within that
其外	besides; in addition; apart from that
其它	(adjective) other
其實	actually; in fact; really
其後	next; later; after that
其所	its place; one's appointed place; the place for that
其樂不窮	boundless joy
其樂無窮	boundless joy
其樂融融	(of relations) joyous and harmonious
其次	next; secondly
其自身	one's own (respective); proprietary
其貌不揚	(idiom) nothing special to look at; unprepossessing
其間	in between; within that interval; in the meantime
其餘	the rest; the others; remaining
具	tool; device; utensil
具保	to find guarantor; to find surety
具備	to possess; to have; equipped with
具名	to sign; to put one's name to
具有	to have; to possess
具格	instrumental case (grammar)
具爾	(archaic) brother
具結	to bind over (as surety); to sign an undertaking
具象	tangible image; concrete; representational (art)
具身智能	embodied AI
具體	concrete; specific; detailed
具體到	to embody into; to apply to; to take the shape of
具體化	to concretize
具體問題	concrete issue
具體而微	miniature; scaled-down; forming a microcosm
具體計劃	a concrete plan; a definite plan
典	canon; law; standard work of scholarship
典型	model; typical case; archetype
典型化	stereotype; exemplar; typification
典型用途	typical use; typical application
典型登革熱	dengue fever
典座	(Buddhism) the kitchen manager in a monastery
典故	classical story or quote from the literature; the story behind sth
典獄長	warden
典當	to pawn
典當行	pawnshop
典禮	ceremony; celebration
典章	institution; institutional
典範	model; example; paragon
典籍	ancient books or records
典藏	repository of items of cultural significance; collection
典質	to mortgage; to pawn
典雅	refined; elegant
兼	double; twice; simultaneous
兼並與收購	mergers and acquisitions (M&A)
兼任	to hold a concurrent post; part-time; (in academia) adjunct
兼併	to annex; to take over; to acquire
兼備	have both
兼優	an all-rounder; good at everything
兼具	to combine; to have both
兼善天下	(idiom) to work for the common good beyond one's own interests
兼容	compatible
兼容並包	to include and monopolize many things; all-embracing
兼容性	compatibility
兼差	to moonlight; side job
兼愛	"universal love", principle advocated by Mozi 墨子[Mo4 zi3], stressing that people should care for everyone equally
兼收並蓄	incorporating diverse things (idiom); eclectic; all-embracing
兼施	using several (methods)
兼有	to combine; to have both
兼濟天下	(idiom) to make everyone's lives better
兼營	a second job; supplementary way of making a living
兼程	to travel at double speed; to make all haste
兼而有之	to have both (at the same time)
兼職	to hold concurrent posts; concurrent job; moonlighting
兼聽則明，偏信則暗	listen to both sides and you will be enlightened; heed only one side and you will remain ignorant (idiom)
兼蓄	to contain two things at a time; to mingle; to incorporate
兼課	to teach classes in addition to other duties
兼顧	to handle two or more responsibilities at the same time; to balance (career and family, or work and studies etc)
冀	short name for Hebei 河北[He2 bei3]; surname Ji
冀州區	Jizhou, a district of Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
冀朝鑄	Ji Chaozhu (1929-2020), Chinese diplomat
冀縣	Ji county in Hebei
冂	radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 13), occurring in 用[yong4], 同[tong2], 網|网[wang3] etc, referred to as 同字框[tong2 zi4 kuang4]
冃	hat; cap
円	yen (Japanese currency); Japanese variant of 圓|圆
冇	to not have (Cantonese) (Mandarin equivalent: 沒有|没有[mei2 you3])
冉	edge of a tortoiseshell; used in 冉冉[ran3 ran3]
冉冉	gradually; slowly; (of branches or hair) softly drooping
冉冉上升	to ascend slowly
冊	book; booklet; classifier for books
冊亨縣	Ceheng, a county in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
冊子	a book; a volume
冊封	to confer a title upon sb; to dub; to crown
冊府元龜	Prime tortoise of the record bureau, Song dynasty historical encyclopedia of political essays, autobiography, memorials and decrees, compiled 1005-1013 under Wang Qinruo 王欽若|王钦若 and Yang Yi 楊億|杨亿, 1000 scrolls
冊歷	diary
冊立	to confer a title on (an empress or a prince)
再	again; once more; re-; further; beyond this point of time
再一次	again
再三	over and over again; again and again
再三再四	repeatedly; over and over again
再不	or else; alternatively
再不然	otherwise; alternatively; or else
再世	to be reincarnated
再也	(not) ever again; (not) any longer
再保證	to reassure
再保險	reinsurance (contractual device spreading risk between insurers)
再入	to re-enter
再則	moreover; besides
再四	repeatedly; over and over again
再好不過	couldn't be better; ideal; wonderful
再婚	to remarry
再嫁	(of woman) to remarry
再審	to hear a case again; review; retrial
再就是	another one is ...; the other thing is ...
再平衡	to rebalance
再度	once more; once again; one more time
再建	to reconstruct; to build another
再怎麼	no matter how ...
再拜	to bow again; to bow twice (gesture of respect in former times)
再接再厲	to continue the struggle (idiom); to persist; unremitting efforts
再改	to change (sth) again
再會	to meet again; until we meet again; goodbye
再次	once more; once again
再版	second edition; reprint
再犯	to re-offend; repeat offender; recidivist
再現	to recreate; to reconstruct (a historical relic)
再生	to be reborn; to regenerate
再生不良性貧血	aplastic anemia
再生制動	regenerative braking
再生水	reclaimed water; recycled water
再生燃料	renewable fuel
再生父母	like a second parent (idiom); one's great benefactor
再生產	to reproduce; reproduction
再生稻	ratoon rice; rice plants that regrow from stubble after the first harvest, yielding a second crop
再生能源	renewable energy source
再生資源	renewable resource
再生醫學	regenerative medicine
再發	to reissue; (of a disease) to recur
再者	moreover; besides
再育	to increase; to multiply; to proliferate
再臨	to come again
再處理	reprocessing
再融資	refinancing; restructuring (a loan)
再衰三竭	weakening and close to exhaustion (idiom); in terminal decline
再製	to make more of the same thing; to reproduce; to reprocess
再製紙	recycled paper
再製鹽	refined salt
再見	goodbye
再見全壘打	walk-off home run
再說	to say again; to put off a discussion until later; moreover
再賽	to compete again (i.e. either have a rematch or, when the scores are tied, have extra time)
再起	to arise again; to make a comeback; resurgence
再造	to rebuild; to reconstruct; to regenerate
再造手術	reconstructive surgery
再遷	to promote again; reappointed
再醮	to remarry
冏	velvetleaf (Abutilon avicennae), plant of the jute family; bright
冏卿	minister of the imperial stud, originally charged with horse breeding
冏徹	bright and easily understood; clear; transparent
冏牧	minister of the imperial stud, originally charged with horse breeding
冒	to emit; to give off; to send out (or up, forth); to brave; to face
冒充	to feign; to pretend to be; to pass oneself off as
冒冒失失	bold; forthright
冒出來	to emerge; to pop up; to spring forth; to appear from nowhere
冒名	an impostor; to impersonate
冒名頂替	to assume sb's name and take his place (idiom); to impersonate
冒名頂替者	impersonator; impostor
冒大不韙	(idiom) to face opprobrium
冒失	rash; impudent
冒失鬼	reckless person; hothead
冒昧	bold; presumptuous; to take the liberty of
冒暑	heat stroke (TCM)
冒死	to brave death
冒汗	to sweat
冒瀆	to disrespect; blasphemy
冒火	to get angry; to burn with rage
冒煙	to discharge smoke; to fume with rage
冒牌	fake; impostor; quack (doctor)
冒牌貨	fake goods; imitation; forgery
冒犯	to offend
冒生命危險	to risk one's life
冒用	to falsely use (sb's identity etc)
冒納羅亞	Moanalua, Hawaiian volcano
冒著	to brave; to face dangers
冒號	colon (punct.)
冒進	to advance prematurely
冒險	to take risks; to take chances; foray
冒險主義	adventurism (a left-wing error against Mao's line during the 1930s)
冒險家	adventurer
冒險者	adventurer
冒雨	to brave the rain
冒頂	(mining) roof fall; to have the roof cave in
冒領	to obtain by impersonation; to falsely claim as one's own
冒頭	to emerge; to crop up; a little more than
冒題	writing style in which the main subject is not introduced initially (opposite: 破題|破题[po4 ti2])
冒風險	to take risks
冓	inner rooms of palace; ten billions
冔	cap of Yin dynasty
冕	crown in the form of a horizontal board with hanging decorations
冕寧縣	Mianning, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
冕柳鶯	(bird species of China) eastern crowned warbler (Phylloscopus coronatus)
冕雀	(bird species of China) sultan tit (Melanochlora sultanea)
冖	"cover" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 14), occurring in 軍|军[jun1], 冠[guan1] etc, known as 禿寶蓋|秃宝盖[tu1 bao3 gai4] or 平寶蓋|平宝盖[ping2 bao3 gai4]
冗	extraneous; redundant; superfluous
冗位	redundant position
冗兵	superfluous troops
冗冗	numerous; excessive; multitude
冗務	miscellaneous affairs
冗員	excess personnel; superfluous staff
冗官	redundant officials
冗散	(literary) idle; unemployed
冗數	redundant number
冗筆	superfluous words (in writing); superfluous strokes (in calligraphy)
冗繁	miscellaneous
冗職	redundant position
冗言	pleonasm (linguistics)
冗詞	tautology; superfluous words
冗語	verbosity; verbose speech
冗費	unnecessary expenses
冗贅	verbose
冗贅詞	expletive (linguistics)
冗長	long and tedious; redundant; superfluous
冗長度	(level of) redundancy
冗長辯論	filibuster
冗雜	many and varied; confused
冗食	eating without working
冗餘	redundancy; redundant
冘	(bound form) mostly used in either 冘豫[you2 yu4] or 冘疑[you2 yi2]
冞	deep
冠	to put on a hat; to be first; to dub
冠以	to label; to call
冠冕	royal crown; official hat; official
冠冕堂皇	high-sounding; dignified; pompous (idiom)
冠名	to name (a sports team, a competition etc)
冠子	crest; crown
冠形詞	article (in grammar)
冠心病	coronary heart disease
冠斑犀鳥	(bird species of China) oriental pied hornbill (Anthracoceros albirostris)
冠海雀	(bird species of China) Japanese murrelet (Synthliboramphus wumizusume)
冠狀	coronary (i.e. relating to the coronary arteries or veins)
冠狀動脈	coronary artery
冠狀動脈旁路移植手術	coronary bypass operation
冠狀動脈旁通手術	coronary bypass operation
冠狀病毒	coronavirus
冠禮	the capping ceremony, a Confucian coming of age ceremony for males dating from pre-Qin times, performed when a boy reaches the age of 20, involving the ritual placing of caps on the head of the young man
冠紋柳鶯	(bird species of China) Claudia's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus claudiae)
冠縣	Guan County or Guanxian, a county in Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
冠脈	coronary; coronary artery
冠脈循環	coronary circulation
冠詞	article (in grammar)
冠軍	champion
冠軍賽	championship
冠魚狗	(bird species of China) crested kingfisher (Megaceryle lugubris)
冠麻鴨	(bird species of China) crested shelduck (Tadorna cristata)
冢	mound; burial mound; senior (i.e. eldest child or senior in rank)
冤	injustice; grievance; wrong
冤仇	rancor; enmity; hatred resulting from grievances
冤假錯案	unjust, fake and false charges (in a legal case)
冤冤相報何時了	if revenge breeds revenge, will there ever be an end to it? (Buddhist saying)
冤大頭	spendthrift and foolish; sb with more money than sense
冤孽	sin (in Buddhism); enmity leading to sin
冤家	enemy; foe; (in opera) sweetheart or destined love
冤家宜解不宜結	It is better to squash enmity rather than keeping it alive (proverb)
冤家對頭	enemy (idiom); opponent; arch-enemy
冤家路窄	lit. for enemies, the road is narrow (idiom)
冤屈	to treat unjustly; an injustice
冤情	facts of an injustice
冤抑	to suffer injustice
冤有頭，債有主	for every grievance someone is responsible, for every debt there is a debtor (idiom)
冤枉	to accuse wrongly; to treat unjustly; injustice
冤枉路	pointless trip; not worth the trip
冤枉錢	wasted money; pointless expense
冤案	miscarriage of justice
冤業	sin (in Buddhism); enmity leading to sin; also written 冤孽
冤死	to suffer an unjust death
冤氣	resentment over unfair treatment
冤獄	unjust charge or verdict; miscarriage of justice; frame-up
冤種	(slang) sucker; dupe; patsy (often used humorously or self-deprecatingly)
冤苦	to treat (sb) unjustly; anguish caused by an injustice
冤誣	unjust charge; frame-up
冤錢	money spent in vain; wasted money
冤頭	enemy; foe
冤魂	ghost of one who died unjustly
冥	dark; deep; stupid
冥冥之中	in the unseen world of spirits; mysteriously and inexorably
冥合	to agree implicitly; of one mind
冥壽	birthday of a deceased person
冥婚	posthumous or ghost marriage (in which at least one of the bride and groom is dead)
冥幣	false paper money burned as an offering to the dead
冥府	underworld; hell
冥想	to meditate; meditation
冥王	the king of hell
冥王星	Pluto (dwarf planet)
冥界	ghost world
冥福	afterlife happiness
冥紙	joss paper made to resemble paper money
冥誕	(formal) posthumous birthday
冥道	path to the underworld (in Daoist or folk beliefs, referring to the journey of spirits after death)
冥鈔	false paper money burned as an offering to the dead
冥錢	joss paper made to resemble paper money
冥頑	stupidly obstinate
冥頑不靈	(idiom) pigheaded
冧	(Cantonese) to topple; to collapse; to coax
冪	(math.) power; exponent; to cover with a cloth; cloth cover; veil
冪等	idempotent (math.)
冪級數	power series (math.)
冫	"ice" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 15), occurring in 冰[bing1], 次[ci4] etc, known as 兩點水|两点水[liang3 dian3 shui3]
冬	winter
冬不拉	Dombra or Tambura, Kazakh plucked lute
冬令	winter; winter climate
冬令時	standard time (as opposed to daylight saving time 夏令時|夏令时[xia4 ling4 shi2])
冬夏	winter and summer
冬天	winter
冬奧會	Winter Olympics
冬字頭	name of "walk slowly" component 夂[zhi3] in Chinese characters
冬季	winter
冬宮	Winter Palace (St Petersburg); Hermitage Museum
冬日	wintertime
冬月	eleventh lunar month
冬歇期	winter break
冬殘奧會	Winter Paralympics
冬烘	shallow; uneducated
冬瓜	wax gourd (Cucurbitaceae, Benincasa hispida); white gourd
冬病夏治	to treat winter diseases in the summer (TCM)
冬眠	to hibernate; hibernation
冬筍	winter bamboo shoots (smaller and tenderer as a result of being dug out before they come out of the soil)
冬粉	(Tw) glass noodles; mung bean vermicelli
冬耕	winter plowing
冬至	Winter Solstice, 22nd of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 22nd December-5th January
冬至點	the winter solstice
冬菇	donko shiitake mushroom, a prized type of shiitake (Lentinula edodes) cultivated in winter, with thick flesh and partially open cap
冬菜	preserved dried cabbage or mustard greens
冬蔭	(loanword) tom yum (Thai soup)
冬蔭功	(loanword) tom yum goong (Thai soup)
冬蟄	hibernation
冬蟲夏草	caterpillar fungus (Ophiocordyceps sinensis) (The fungus grows within the body of a caterpillar, culminating in the emergence of a stalked fruiting body from the caterpillar's head, and is a much-prized and expensive ingredient used as a tonic in traditional Chinese medicine.)
冬衣	winter clothes
冬裝	winter clothing; winter clothes
冬運會	winter games
冬閑	slack winter season (farming)
冬青	holly
冬青樹	holly
冮	surname Gang
冰	ice; to chill sth; (of an object or substance) to feel cold
冰上運動	ice-sports
冰人	(old) matchmaker
冰冷	ice-cold
冰凌	icicle
冰凍	to freeze
冰凍三尺，非一日之寒	three feet of ice does not form in a single day (idiom); Rome wasn't built in a day
冰凝器	cryophorus
冰刀	ice skates; ice skate blades
冰原	ice field
冰咖啡	iced coffee
冰品	frozen dessert
冰坨子	(coll.) chunks of ice
冰場	skating or ice rink; ice stadium; ice arena
冰塊	ice cube; ice chunk
冰塊盒	ice cube tray
冰塔	serac
冰塔林	serac band
冰塞	ice blockage; freezing of waterway
冰墩墩	Bing Dwen Dwen (mascot of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics, a panda wearing a bodysuit of transparent ice)
冰壑	ice gully
冰壩	freezing blockage; dam of ice on river
冰壺	jade pot for cold water; curling (sport); curling puck
冰壺秋月	jade ice jug and autumn moon (idiom, from poem by Song writer Su Dongpo 蘇東坡|苏东坡); fig. spotless white and pure
冰天雪地	a world of ice and snow
冰封	to freeze over; to ice over; icebound
冰屋	igloo
冰山	iceberg; ice-covered mountain
冰山一角	tip of the iceberg
冰山美人	ice queen (beautiful woman who appears to be emotionless and distant)
冰島	Iceland
冰川	glacier
冰川期	ice age
冰帽	icecap
冰店	dessert parlor serving mainly cold sweets (esp. shaved ice) (Tw)
冰心	Bing Xin (1900-1999), female poet and children's writer
冰排	ice raft; ice floe
冰斗	(geology) cirque
冰晶	ice crystals
冰晶石	cryolite
冰期	glacial epoch; ice age
冰杯	cup of edible ice (typically sold for making a cold drink)
冰染染料	azoic dye
冰柱	icicle
冰桶	ice bucket
冰棍	popsicle; ice lolly
冰棍兒	ice lolly; popsicle
冰棒	popsicle; ice pop
冰棺	coffin-shaped freezer used to store a corpse
冰橇	sled; sledge; sleigh
冰橋	ice arch
冰櫃	freezer
冰毒	methamphetamine
冰水	iced water
冰沙	slushie; smoothie; crushed ice drink
冰河	glacier
冰河時代	ice age
冰河時期	ice age
冰河期	ice age
冰洞	hole in ice; crevasse
冰洲石	Iceland spar
冰消瓦解	to melt like ice and break like tiles; to disintegrate; to dissolve
冰涼	ice-cold
冰淇淋	ice cream
冰清玉潔	clear as ice and clean as jade (idiom); spotless; irreproachable
冰湖	frozen lake
冰溜	icicle
冰溝	crevasse
冰激凌	ice cream
冰火	fire and ice
冰炭不相容	as incompatible or irreconcilable as ice and hot coals
冰炭不言，冷熱自明	ice or coals, whether hot or cold goes without saying (idiom); fig. sincerity is not expressed in words
冰燈	ice lantern
冰爪	crampon
冰片	borneol
冰球	ice hockey; puck
冰球場	ice hockey rink
冰皮月餅	snow skin mooncake (with a soft casing which is not baked, instead of the traditional baked pastry casing)
冰硬	frozen solid
冰碴	ice shards
冰磚	ice-cream brick; brick of ice
冰磧	moraine; rock debris from glacier
冰積物	glacial sediment
冰窖	icehouse
冰箱	refrigerator; (old) icebox
冰糕	ice-cream; popsicle; ice-lolly
冰糖	crystal sugar; rock candy
冰糖葫蘆	sugar-coated Chinese hawthorn or other fruit on a bamboo skewer
冰肌玉骨	(idiom) (of a woman) having fair, flawless skin and a graceful, refined beauty
冰花	ice crystal; frost (on windows)
冰菜	ice plant (Mesembryanthemum crystallinum)
冰葉日中花	ice plant (Mesembryanthemum crystallinum)
冰蓋	ice sheet
冰蛋	frozen eggs
冰蝕	glaciated; eroded by ice
冰袋	ice bag
冰輪	the moon
冰醋酸	glacial acetic acid
冰釋	to dispel (enmity, misunderstandings etc)
冰釋前嫌	(idiom) to forget previous differences; to bury the hatchet
冰釣	ice fishing
冰錐	icicle
冰鎬	ice pick
冰鎮	iced
冰鑹	ice spud (aka ice chisel) with a pointy tip
冰鑽	ice auger
冰隙	crevasse
冰雕	ice sculpture
冰雪	ice and snow
冰雪皇后	Dairy Queen (brand)
冰雪聰明	(idiom) exceptionally intelligent
冰雹	hail; hailstone
冰霜	(literary) ice formed in freezing weather as frost or icicles etc (often used as a metaphor for moral uprightness, strictness, sternness or aloofness)
冰鞋	skating boots; skates
冰風暴	icy storm; hailstorm
冰飲	iced drink
冰點	freezing point
冱	congealed; frozen
冶	to smelt; to cast; seductive in appearance
冶天	ATI, brand name of AMD graphics cards
冶容	to mold (into seductive shape); to dress up (usu. derogatory)
冶煉	to smelt metal
冶煉爐	a furnace for smelting metal
冶艷	bewitching; beautiful
冶蕩	lewd; lascivious
冶遊	to go courting; to visit a brothel (old); related to 野遊|野游[ye3 you2]
冶金	metallurgy
冶金學	metallurgy
冶鑄	to smelt and cast
冷	surname Leng
冷不丁	suddenly; by surprise
冷不防	unexpectedly; suddenly; at unawares
冷傲	icily arrogant
冷僻	out-of-the-way; deserted; unfamiliar
冷兵器	weapon not using gunpowder or explosives (opposite: 熱兵器|热兵器[re4 bing1 qi4])
冷冬	cold winter
冷冷	coldly
冷冷清清	deserted; desolate; unfrequented
冷冽	chilly
冷凍	to freeze (food etc); (of weather) freezing
冷凍庫	freezer room
冷凍櫃	freezer
冷切	cold cuts
冷卻	(lit. and fig.) to cool
冷卻劑	coolant
冷卻塔	cooling tower
冷卻水	cooling water (in a reactor)
冷厲	stern; unsympathetic; icy
冷啟動	to cold start (a vehicle, a computer etc)
冷嘲熱諷	frigid irony and scorching satire (idiom); to mock and ridicule
冷場	stage wait; (fig.) awkward silence
冷天	cold day
冷奴	silken tofu served cold with various toppings (loanword from Japanese "hiyayakko")
冷媒	refrigerant
冷字	obscure word; unfamiliar character
冷宮	(in literature and opera) a place to which a monarch banishes a wife or concubine who falls from favor
冷寂	cold and desolate; lonely
冷峻	grave and stern
冷戰	cold war; (fig.) strained relationship; to be barely on speaking terms
冷房	cooling; air conditioning
冷敷	to apply a cold compress
冷敷布	cold compress
冷暖	lit. daily changes of temperature; fig. well-being
冷暖房	cooling and heating; air conditioning and central heating
冷暴力	non-physical abuse; emotional abuse; the silent treatment
冷森森	chilling cold; cold and threatening
冷槍	sniper's shot
冷氣	cold air; air conditioning
冷氣團	(meteorology) cold air mass
冷氣機	air conditioner
冷氣衫	warm clothes such as padded jacket to be worn in air conditioning (esp. in Hong Kong)
冷水	cold water; unboiled water; fig. not yet ready (of plans)
冷水機組	chiller
冷水江市	Lengshuijiang, a county-level city in Loudi City 婁底市|娄底市[Lou2 di3 Shi4], Hunan
冷水灘區	Lengshuitan, a district of Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
冷汗	cold sweat
冷淡	cold; indifferent
冷淡關係	cold relations (e.g. between countries)
冷清	cold and cheerless; desolate; deserted
冷清清	deserted; desolate; unfrequented
冷漠	cold and detached towards sb; lack of regard; indifference
冷澀	cold and sluggish; chilly
冷熱病	malaria
冷盆	cold dish; appetizer
冷盤	cold plate; cold meats
冷眼	cool eye; fig. detached; (treating) with indifference
冷眼旁觀	(idiom) to observe with an indifferent attitude; to be a bystander (usually referring to someone who could get involved but chooses not to)
冷知識	trivia
冷空氣	(meteorology) cold air mass
冷笑	to sneer; to laugh grimly
冷笑話	corny joke
冷絲絲	a bit chilly
冷色	cool color (esp. green, purple, and blue)
冷艷	(of a woman) beautiful but aloof
冷若冰霜	as cold as ice and frost (idiom, usually of woman); icy manner; frigid
冷菜	cold dish; cold food
冷萃	to cold brew
冷萃咖啡	cold brew coffee
冷落	desolate; unfrequented; to treat sb coldly
冷藏	refrigeration; cold storage
冷藏箱	cooler; ice chest; reefer container
冷藏車	refrigerated truck or wagon
冷處理	(mechanics) cold treatment; to downplay; to handle in a low-key way
冷血	cold-blood; cold-blooded (animal)
冷血動物	cold-blooded animal; fig. cold-hearted person
冷言冷語	sarcastic comments (idiom); to make sarcastic comments
冷話	harsh words; sarcasm; bitter remarks
冷語	sarcasm; sneering talk
冷語冰人	to offend people with unkind remarks (idiom)
冷軋	(metallurgy) cold-rolled; cold-rolling
冷遇	a cold reception; to cold-shoulder sb
冷酷	unfeeling; callous
冷酷無情	cold-hearted; unfeeling; callous
冷鋒	cold front (meteorology)
冷鏈	cold chain
冷門	a neglected branch (of arts, science, sports etc)
冷靜	calm; cool-headed; dispassionate; (of a place) deserted; quiet
冷靜期	cooling-off period (divorces, purchases, surgeries)
冷面	grim; stern; harsh
冷颼颼	chilling; chilly
冷飲	cold drink
冷餐	cold meal; cold food
冷麵	naengmyeon (Korean dish based on cold noodles in soup)
冼	surname Xian
冼星海	Xian Xinghai (1905-1945), violinist and composer, known for patriotic wartime pieces, including Yellow River Oratorio 黃河大合唱|黄河大合唱[Huang2 He2 Da4 he2 chang4]
冽	cold and raw
凄	intense cold; frigid; dismal
凄梗	(literary) wailing; choking with sobs
凅	dried up; dry; exhausted
准	to allow; to grant; in accordance with
准予	to grant; to approve; to permit
准入	access; admittance
准將	brigadier general; commodore
准格爾旗	Jungar Banner in Ordos 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
准生證	birth permit
准考證	(exam) admission ticket
准許	to allow; to grant; to permit
凇	icicle
凈身	to purify one's body (i.e. to get castrated)
凈身出戶	to leave a marriage with nothing (no possessions or property)
凊	(literary) cold; cool; chilly
凋	withered
凋敝	impoverished; destitute; hard
凋落	to wither (and drop off); to wilt; to pass away
凋謝	to wither; to wilt; wizened
凋零	withered; wilted; to wither
凌	to approach; to rise high; thick ice
凌亂	messy; disarrayed; disheveled
凌亂不堪	in a terrible mess (idiom)
凌兢	(literary) icy cold; (literary) to shiver; to tremble
凌厲	swift and fierce; fierce; forceful
凌夷	to deteriorate; to decline; to slump
凌志	Lexus, luxury vehicle brand of Toyota Motor Corporation
凌晨	very early in the morning; in the wee hours
凌汛	ice-jam flood (arising when river downstream freezes more than upstream)
凌河區	Linghe, a district of Jinzhou City 錦州市|锦州市[Jin3 zhou1 Shi4], Liaoning
凌波舞	limbo (dance) (loanword)
凌海市	Linghai, a county-level city in Jinzhou City 錦州市|锦州市[Jin3 zhou1 Shi4], Liaoning
凌源市	Lingyuan, a county-level city in Chaoyang City 朝陽市|朝阳市[Chao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
凌濛初	Ling Mengchu (1580–1644), Ming dynasty short story writer and playwright
凌空	be high up in the sky
凌虐	to maltreat; to tyrannize
凌辱	to insult; to humiliate; to bully
凌遲	the lingering death
凌雜	in disorder
凌雜米鹽	disordered and fragmentary
凌雲	(lit. and fig.) towering; lofty; high
凌雲縣	Lingyun, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
凌霄花	Chinese trumpet vine (Campsis grandiflora)
凌駕	to be above; to place above
凍	to freeze; to feel very cold; aspic or jelly
凍乾	to freeze-dry; freeze-dried food (such as meat or fruit)
凍傷	frostbite
凍僵	frozen stiff; numb with cold
凍卵	to freeze a woman's eggs for later fertilization; to cryopreserve oocytes
凍原	tundra
凍品	frozen goods; frozen product
凍土	frozen earth; permafrost; tundra
凍土層	permafrost; tundra; layer of frozen soil
凍害	(agriculture) freezing injury
凍容	"youth freezing", Chinese girls beginning anti-ageing treatments as young as two years old in the hope they will never look old
凍櫃	reefer (refrigerated shipping container)
凍死	to freeze to death; to die off in winter
凍漲	to freeze (prices, fees etc) (Tw)
凍瘡	frostbite; chilblains
凍硬	to freeze solid; frozen stiff
凍穿	frostbite; chilblain
凍結	to freeze (water etc); (fig.) to freeze (assets, prices etc)
凍肉	cold or frozen meat
凍膠	gel
凍雨	freezing rain
凍齡	to maintain a youthful appearance
凓	cold; frigid
凔	cold
凜	cold; to shiver with cold; to tremble with fear
凜冽	biting cold
凜遵	to strictly abide by
凝	to congeal; to concentrate attention; to stare
凝冰	to freeze
凝固	to freeze; to solidify; to congeal
凝固劑	solidifying agent; coagulant
凝固汽油彈	napalm
凝固點	freezing point
凝塊	clot; blood clot
凝望	to gaze at; to stare fixedly at
凝液	condensate
凝滯	to stagnate; to congeal; (fig.) to stop still
凝睇	to gaze intently; to stare at
凝神	with rapt attention
凝結	to condense; to solidify; to coagulate
凝練	concise; compact; condensed
凝縮	to condense; to concentrate; compression
凝聚	to condense; to coagulate; coacervation (i.e. form tiny droplets)
凝聚力	cohesion; cohesiveness; cohesive
凝聚層	coherent sheaf (math.)
凝聚態	condensed matter (physics)
凝肩	frozen shoulder (medicine)
凝膠	gel
凝膠體	gel
凝花菜	gelidiella, tropical and subtropical red algae
凝血	blood clot
凝血素	hemaglutinin (protein causing blood clotting)
凝血酶	thrombin (biochemistry)
凝血酶原	prothrombin
凝視	to gaze at; to fix one's eyes on
凝重	dignified; grave (expression); imposing (attitude)
凝集	to concentrate; to gather; (biology) to agglutinate
凝集素	(biochemistry) agglutinin; lectin
凞	bright; splendid; glorious
几	small table
几案	long narrow table
凡	ordinary; commonplace; mundane
凡事	everything
凡人	ordinary person; mortal; earthling
凡例	notes on the use of a book; guide to the reader
凡俗	lay (as opposed to clergy); ordinary; commonplace
凡塵	mundane world (in religious context); this mortal coil
凡士林	(loanword) vaseline
凡士通	Firestone (Tire and Rubber Company)
凡夫	common person; ordinary guy; mortal man
凡夫俗子	common people; ordinary folk
凡庸	ordinary; mediocre
凡得瓦力	(molecular physics) van der Waals force
凡心	reluctance to leave this world; heart set on the mundane
凡是	each and every; every; all; any
凡爾丁	a type of plain-woven woolen fabric that is thin, stiff and smooth
凡爾賽	Versailles (near Paris); (slang) to humblebrag
凡爾賽宮	the Palace of Versailles, France
凡爾賽文學	(slang) social media post whose purpose is to humblebrag
凡百	all; everything; the whole
凡立水	(loanword) varnish
凡賽斯	Versace (fashion brand) (Tw)
凡近	with little learning
凡間	the secular world
凡響	ordinary tones; everyday harmony; common chord
凡高	Vincent van Gogh (1853–1890), Dutch post-Impressionist painter
凰	used in 鳳凰|凤凰[feng4 huang2]
凱	(bound form) triumphal music
凱利	Kelly (person name)
凱夫拉	Kevlar
凱子	(slang) rich, good-looking guy
凱尼恩	(name) Kenyon; Canyon
凱恩斯	(name) Keynes
凱悅	Hyatt (hotel company); Hyatt Regency (hotel brand)
凱撒	Caesar or Kaiser (name)
凱撒肋雅	Caesarea (town in Israel, between Tel Aviv and Haifa)
凱撒醬	Caesar salad dressing
凱文	Kevin (person name)
凱旋	to return in triumph; to return victorious
凱旋門	triumphal arch
凱林賽	keirin cycle race (paced stadium event) (loanword from Japanese 競輪 "keirin")
凱歌	triumphal hymn; victory song; paean
凱法勞尼亞	Kefalonia, Greek Island in the Ionian sea
凱爾特人	Celt
凱特	Kate (name)
凱瑟琳	Catherine (name); Katherine
凱芙拉	Kevlar
凱茜·弗里曼	Cathy Freeman (1973–), Australian sprinter
凱蒂	(name) Kitty, Cathy, Katy, Caddy etc
凱蒂貓	Hello Kitty
凱迪拉克	Cadillac
凱達格蘭	Ketagalan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan, esp. northeast corner
凱達格蘭族	Ketagalan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan, esp. northeast corner
凱里市	Kaili, a county-level city in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
凱門鱷	(zoology) caiman
凳	bench; stool
凳子	stool; small seat
凵	receptacle
凶	vicious; fierce; ominous
凶事	fateful accident; inauspicious matter (involving death or casualties)
凶信	fateful news; news of sb's death
凶兆	ill omen
凶光	ominous glint
凶喪	funeral arrangements
凶多吉少	(lit.) everything bodes ill, no positive signs (idiom)
凶巴巴	harsh; savage; fierce
凶年	year of famine
凶暴	brutal
凶服	mourning clothes (old)
凶殘	savage
凶焰	ferocity; aggressive arrogance
凶狠	cruel; vicious; fierce and malicious
凶荒	(literary) famine
凶黨	band of accomplice
凸	to stick out; protruding; convex; male (connector etc)
凸凸	convex on both sides (of lens); biconvex
凸出	to protrude; to stick out
凸多胞形	convex polytope
凸多邊形	convex polygon
凸多面體	convex polyhedron
凸度	convexity
凸性	convexity
凸摺線	convex polygonal line
凸槌	(slang) (Tw) to mess up; to screw up
凸版	relief printing plate
凸版印刷	relief printing; typography; printing with metal plates
凸現	to come to prominence; to appear clearly; to stick out
凸線	convex curve
凸緣	flange
凸耳	flange; lug
凸起	convex; protruding; to protrude
凸輪	cam
凸輪軸	camshaft
凸透鏡	convex lens
凸邊	rim; protruding edge
凸鏡	convex mirror
凸面	convex surface
凸面鏡	convex mirror
凸面體	convex body
凸顯	to stand out clearly; to make prominent
凹	concave; depressed; sunken; indented; female (connector etc)
凹入	recessed; concave
凹凸	concave or convex; bumps and holes; uneven (surface)
凹凸不平	(idiom) uneven (surface); bumpy (road)
凹凸印刷	embossing; die stamping
凹凸形	crenelated; corrugated
凹凸性	(math.) concavity
凹凸有致	curvaceous
凹凸軋花	embossing
凹坑	concave depression; crater
凹岸	concave bank
凹度	concavity
凹朴皮	bark of tulip tree (TCM); Cortex Liriodendri
凹槽	recess; notch; groove
凹洞	cavity; pit
凹版	intaglio printing plate (or a print made with it)
凹痕	dent; indentation; notch
凹紋	die (printing, metalwork etc)
凹線	groove
凹透鏡	concave lens
凹造型	(coll.) to strike a pose
凹進	concave; recessed; dented
凹鏡	concave mirror
凹陷	to cave in; hollow; sunken; depressed
凹雕	to engrave; to carve into
凹面鏡	concave mirror
出	to go out; to come out; to arise; to occur; to produce; to yield
出世	to be born; to come into being; to withdraw from worldly affairs
出主意	to come up with ideas; to make suggestions; to offer advice
出乎	due to; to stem from
出乎意外	beyond expectation (idiom); unexpected
出乎意料	(idiom) unexpected
出乎預料	beyond expectation (idiom); unexpected
出亂子	to go wrong; to get into trouble
出了事	sth bad happened
出事	to have an accident; to meet with a mishap
出亡	to go into exile
出人命	fatal; resulting in sb's death
出人意外	turned out other than expected (idiom); unexpected
出人意料	unexpected (idiom); surprising
出人意表	to exceed all expectations; to come as a surprise
出人頭地	to stand out among one's peers (idiom); to excel
出仕	to take up an official post
出任	to take up a post; to start in a new job
出份子	to club together (to offer a gift); to hold a whip-round
出伏	to come to the end of the hottest period of the year (known as 三伏[san1 fu2])
出使	to go abroad as ambassador; to be sent on a diplomatic mission
出來	(after a verb, indicates coming out, completion of an action, or ability to discern or detect)
出來混遲早要還的	if you live a life of crime, sooner or later you'll pay for it
出借	to lend; to put out a loan
出價	to bid
出入	to go out and come in; entrance and exit; expenditure and income
出入口	gateway
出入境	to leave or enter a country
出入境檢驗檢疫局	entry-exit inspection and quarantine bureau
出入境管理局	Exit and Entry Administration Bureau (PRC)
出入平安	lit. peace when you come or go; peace wherever you go
出入門	entrance and exit door
出兵	to send troops
出其不意	to do sth when least expected (idiom); to catch sb off guard
出其不意，攻其不備	to catch an enemy off guard with a surprise attack (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3])
出具	to issue (document, certificate etc); to provide
出列	(military) to leave one's place in the ranks; to fall out
出力	to exert oneself
出動	to start out on a trip; to dispatch troops
出勤	to go to work; to be present (at work, school etc)
出包	to contract out; to run into problems
出去	to go out
出口	an exit; to speak; to export
出口商	exporter; export business
出口商品	export product; export goods
出口成章	(idiom) (of one's speech) eloquent; articulate
出口氣	to take one's revenge; to score off sb
出口調查	exit poll
出口貨	exports; goods for export
出口額	export amount
出名	well-known for sth; to become well known; to make one's mark
出品	to produce an item; output; items that are produced
出品人	producer (film)
出售	to sell; to offer for sale; to put on the market
出問題	to have sth go wrong; to have a problem arise; to give problems
出喪	to hold a funeral procession
出圈	to gain popularity beyond the original niche community or fan base; to go mainstream
出圈兒	to overstep the bounds; to go too far
出國	to go abroad; to leave the country
出土	to dig up; to appear in an excavation; unearthed
出埃及記	Book of Exodus; Second Book of Moses
出場	(of a performer) to come onto the stage to perform
出場費	appearance fee
出境	to leave a country or region; outbound (tourism)
出外	to go out; to leave for another place
出大差	(old) to be taken out to be executed
出奇	extraordinary; exceptional; unusual
出奇制勝	to win by a surprise move
出奔	to flee; to escape into exile
出婁子	to run into difficulties; to cause trouble
出嫁	to get married (of woman)
出官	to leave the capital for an official post
出家	to enter monastic life; to become a monk or nun
出家人	monk; nun (Buddhist or Daoist)
出尖	out of the ordinary; outstanding; egregious
出局	(of a batter) to be put out (in baseball); to be dismissed (in cricket)
出山	to leave the mountain (of a hermit)
出岔子	to go wrong; to take a wrong turning
出巡	to go on an inspection tour
出差	to go on an official or business trip
出師	to finish apprenticeship; to graduate
出師未捷身先死	"he failed to complete his quest before death" (line from the poem "The Premier of Shu" 蜀相[Shu3 xiang4] by Du Fu 杜甫[Du4 Fu3])
出席	to attend; to participate; present
出席者	attendee
出庭	to appear in court
出廠	to leave the factory (of finished goods)
出廠價	factory price
出廠設置	(computing) factory settings
出彩	to perform outstandingly; outstanding; dazzling; brilliant
出征	to go into battle; to campaign (military)
出恭	to defecate (euphemism); to go to the toilet
出息	to yield interest, profit etc; to exhale (Buddhism)
出戰	(military) to go off to war; (sports) to compete
出戲	(of an actor) to disengage from the performance (e.g. after the show ends)
出手	to dispose of; to spend (money); to undertake a task
出招	to make a move (in martial arts or figuratively)
出拳	to throw a punch
出挑	(of a young person) to grow (prettier etc); to mature into; to blossom
出擊	to sally; to attack
出操	to drill; to exercise; to go outdoors for physical exercise
出攤兒	(coll.) to set up a vendor's stall (in the street or at a night market etc)
出新	to make new advances; to move forwards
出於	due to; to stem from
出書	to publish books
出月	next month; after this month
出月子	to complete the month of confinement following childbirth
出校門	(fig.) to leave school; to graduate; to enter the world beyond school
出格	to overstep the bounds of what is proper; to take sth too far
出榜	to publish class list of successful exam candidates
出櫃	to come out of the closet; to reveal one's sexual orientation
出欄	(of livestock) to be sent to slaughter
出殯	to accompany a deceased person to his last resting place; to hold a funeral
出毛病	a problem appears; to break down
出氣	to vent one's anger; to breathe out; to exhale
出氣口	gas or air outlet; emotional outlet
出氣筒	(metaphorical) punching bag; undeserving target of sb's wrath
出水	to discharge water; to appear out of the water; to break the surface
出水口	water outlet; drainage outlet
出水芙蓉	as a lotus flower breaking the surface (idiom); surpassingly beautiful (of young lady's face or old gentleman's calligraphy)
出汁	dashi (soup stock used in Japanese cuisine) (orthographic borrowing from Japanese)
出汗	to perspire; to sweat
出沒	to come and go; to roam about (mostly unseen)
出沒無常	to appear and disappear unpredictably
出洋	to go abroad (old)
出洋相	to make a fool of oneself
出活	to finish a job on time; to produce the goods
出海	to go out to sea; (neologism) to expand into overseas markets
出淤泥而不染	lit. to grow out of the mud unsullied (idiom)
出清	to clear out accumulated items; (retailing) to hold a clearance sale
出港	to leave harbor; departure (at airport)
出港大廳	departure lounge
出溜	to slip; to slide
出溜屁	silent fart
出滿勤，幹滿點	to be assiduous and work full hours
出漏子	to take a wrong turn; to go wrong
出演	to perform (in a play, film, concert etc)
出爐	to take out of the furnace; fresh out of the oven
出爾反爾	old: to reap the consequences of one's words (idiom, from Mencius); modern: to go back on one's word
出片	(coll.) (of a photographic subject) to photograph well; to yield good shots
出版	to publish
出版商	publisher
出版物	publications
出版社	publishing house
出版者	publisher
出獄	to be released from prison
出獵	to go out hunting
出現	to appear; to arise; to emerge
出生	to be born
出生入死	from the cradle to the grave (idiom); to go through fire and water
出生地	birthplace
出生地點	place of birth
出生日期	date of birth
出生率	birth rate
出生缺陷	birth defect
出生證	birth certificate
出生證明	birth certificate
出生證明書	birth certificate
出產	to produce (by natural growth, or by manufacture, mining etc)
出界	to cross a border; (sport) to go out of bounds
出發	to set off; to start (on a journey)
出發點	starting point; (fig.) basis; motive
出盤	to sell up; to wind up a business
出眾	to stand out; outstanding
出示	to show; to take out and show to others; to display
出神	spellbound; entranced; lost in thought
出神入化	to reach perfection (idiom); a superb artistic achievement
出神音樂	trance (music genre)
出租	to rent
出租司機	taxi driver
出租屋	rental unit; apartment
出租汽車	taxi; cab (PRC); hire car (Tw)
出租車	taxi; (Tw) rental car
出站	to come out of a station
出籠	(of food) to be taken out of the steamer
出糗	(coll.) to have sth embarrassing happen
出糧	(dialect) to pay salary
出納	cashier; to receive and hand over payment; to lend and borrow books
出納員	cashier; teller; treasurer
出線	(sports) to go out of bounds; to go over the line
出繼	to become adopted as heir
出缺	to fall vacant; a job opening at a high level
出罪	(law) to exempt from punishment
出老千	to cheat (in gambling)
出聲	to make a sound; to speak; to cry out
出脫	to manage to sell; to dispose of sth (by selling)
出自	to come from
出自肺腑	from the bottom of one's heart (idiom)
出臭子兒	to make a bad move (in a game of chess)
出臺	to officially launch (a policy, program etc); to appear on stage
出航	to set out (on a trip)
出色	remarkable; outstanding
出苗	to sprout; to come out (of seedling); to bud
出草	(of Taiwan aborigines) to go on a headhunting expedition
出菇	(mycology) to fruit
出菜	(at a restaurant) to bring a dish to a customer; to serve food
出菜秀	dinner show; dinner and floor show
出落	to grow (prettier etc); to mature into; to blossom
出處	source (esp. of quotation or literary allusion); origin
出號	large-sized (of clothes, shoes); (old) to give an order
出血	to bleed; bleeding; (fig.) to spend money in large amounts
出血性	hemorrhagic
出血性登革熱	dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF)
出血熱	hemorrhagic fever
出行	to go out somewhere (relatively short trip)
出言	to speak; words
出言不遜	to speak rudely
出訪	to go and visit in an official capacity or for investigation
出診	to visit a patient at home (of a doctor); house call
出謀劃策	to put forward plans and ideas (also derogatory)
出警	to dispatch police to the scene of crime, accident etc
出讓	to transfer (one's property or rights to sb else)
出貨	to take money or valuables out of storage; to recover; to ship goods
出資	to fund; to put money into sth; to invest
出賣	to offer for sale; to sell; to sell out; to betray
出賽	to compete; to take part (in a sports event)
出走	to leave home; to go off; to run away
出超	trade surplus; favorable balance of trade
出路	a way out (lit. and fig.); opportunity for advancement; a way forward
出身	to be born of; to come from; family background
出車	to dispatch a vehicle; (of a vehicle or its driver) to set off
出軌	to be derailed; to go off the rails; (fig.) to overstep the bounds
出輯	(of a musician) to release an album
出迎	to greet; to go out to meet
出逃	to run away; to flee (the country)
出遊	to go on a tour; to have an outing
出道	to start one's career; (of an entertainer) to make one's debut
出遠門	to travel far away from home
出醜	to make a fool of oneself
出錢	to pay
出錯	to make a mistake; error
出錯信息	(computing) error message
出鏡	to appear on camera; to play a role in a film
出鐘	(of a prostitute) to do an outcall
出門	to go out; to leave home; to go on a journey
出門在外	to be away from home; to live away from one's family
出閣	(of a girl) to marry (literary)
出院	to leave hospital; to be discharged from hospital
出險	to get out of trouble; to escape from danger; a danger appears
出難題	to raise a tough question
出露	to emerge
出面	to appear personally; to step in; to step forth
出鞘	(of a sword etc) to unsheath
出頭	to get out of a predicament; to stick out; to take the initiative
出頭的椽子先爛	lit. rafters that jut out rot first (idiom)
出頭鳥	to stand out (among a group); distinguished
出題	to draw up the theme (for discussion)
出類拔萃	to excel the common (idiom); surpassing; preeminent; outstanding
出風口	air vent; air outlet
出風頭	to push oneself forward; to seek fame; to be in the limelight
出飯	(coll.) (of rice) to rise well (with cooking)
出餐	(of a restaurant etc) to serve the meal; to dish out the food
出馬	to set out (on a campaign); to stand for election
出點子	to express an opinion; to offer advice
凼	pool; pit; ditch
凼子	pool; pit; ditch
凼肥	manure
函	envelope; case; letter
函人	armor maker
函件	letters; correspondence
函大	correspondence university (abbr. for 函授大學|函授大学[han2 shou4 da4 xue2])
函子	functor (math.)
函式庫	library (partition on computer hard disk)
函授	to teach by correspondence
函授大學	correspondence university
函授課程	correspondence course
函數	function (math.)
函谷關	Hangu Pass in modern day Henan Province, strategic pass forming the eastern gate of the Qin State during the Warring States Period (770-221 BC)
函購	mail order
函辦	to bring to justice; to hand over to the law (abbr. for 函送法辦|函送法办[han2 song4 fa3 ban4])
函送	(formal) to inform by letter; to submit in writing
函送法辦	to bring to justice; to hand over to the law
函館	Hakodate, main port of south Hokkaidō 北海道[Bei3 hai3 dao4], Japan
刀	knife; blade; single-edged sword; cutlass (CL:把[ba3])
刀不磨要生鏽，人不學要落後	(proverb) a blade will get rusty if it is not sharpened; a man will fall behind if he doesn't study
刀俎	sacrificial knife and altar
刀光劍影	lit. flash of knives and swords (idiom); fig. intense conflict
刀光血影	massacre
刀具	cutting tool
刀刃	knife blade; crucial point
刀削麵	knife-shaved noodles (pared or shaved into strips), a Shanxi specialty
刀劍	sword
刀叉	knife and fork
刀口	the edge of a knife; cut; incision
刀塔	Defense of the Ancients (DotA), video game
刀子	knife
刀子嘴巴，豆腐心	lit. knife mouth but heart of bean curd; sharp tongue concealing a caring heart
刀子嘴，豆腐心	to have a sharp tongue but a soft heart (idiom)
刀客	swordsman; swordswoman
刀山火海	lit. mountains of daggers and seas of flames
刀工	knife work (food preparation)
刀庫	tool magazine (computer-aided manufacturing)
刀斧手	lictor
刀槍	sword and spear; weapons
刀槍不入	lit. impervious to sword or spear (idiom); fig. invulnerable
刀槍劍戟	(idiom) melee combat weapons of ancient China, such as swords, spears and halberds
刀樂	(loanword) dollar
刀片	blade; razor blade; tool bit
刀片刺網	razor wire
刀片鐵絲網	razor wire
刀疤	scar from a knife wound
刀筆	writing up of official or judicial documents; pettifoggery
刀耕火種	slash and burn (agriculture)
刀背	back of the knife
刀葉	blade
刀螂	(dialect) mantis
刀身	blade (of a knife or sword)
刀郎	Dolan, a people of the Tarim Basin, Xinjiang, also known as 多郎
刀鋒	cutting edge or point of a knife, sword or tool
刀鋸斧鉞	knife, saw, ax and hatchet (idiom); facing torture and execution
刀鋸鼎鑊	knife, saw and cauldron; ancient instruments of torture; fig. torture
刀鞘	scabbard
刀類	knives; cutlery
刀馬旦	female warrior role in Chinese opera
刀魚	tapertail anchovy (Coilia ectenes); various species of cutlassfish
刁	artful; wicked
刁婦	shrew; virago
刁悍	cunning and fierce
刁斗	soldier's copper saucepan, used for cooking food by day and for sounding the night watches during the hours of darkness (in ancient times)
刁民	(derogatory) unruly people
刁滑	artful; crafty
刁蠻	crafty and unruly
刁鑽	crafty; tricky
刁難	to be hard on sb; to deliberately make things difficult
刂	Kangxi radical 18 (刀[dao1]) as a vertical side element, referred to as 立刀旁[li4 dao1 pang2] or 側刀旁|侧刀旁[ce4 dao1 pang2]
刃	edge of blade
刃具	cutting tool
分	to divide; to separate; to distribute; to allocate
分一杯羹	(fig.) to have a slice of the pie; to get a piece of the action
分久必合，合久必分	(lit.) that which is long divided must unify, and that which is long unified must divide (proverb, from Romance of the Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4])
分之	(indicating a fraction)
分享	to share (esp. sth enjoyable, useful or beneficial)
分付	WeChat's "buy now, pay later" service
分佈	to scatter; to distribute; to be distributed (over an area etc)
分佈圖	scatter diagram; distribution chart; histogram
分佈式	distributed
分佈式環境	distributed environment (computing)
分佈式結構	distributed architecture
分佈式網絡	distributed network
分佈控制	distributed control
分位數	quantile (statistics)
分光	(prefix) spectro-
分光光度法	spectrophotometry
分光計	spectrometer
分克	decigram
分內	within one's area of responsibility
分公司	subsidiary company; branch office
分冊	fascicle; volume (of a book)
分分鐘	any minute now; in next to no time; at every minute; constantly
分列	to divide into rows; to identify subcategories
分列式	(military) march-past
分別	to part; to leave each other; to distinguish; to tell apart
分則	specific provisions (based on general regulations)
分割	to cut up; to break up
分割區	partition (computing)
分力	component force (physics)
分包	to subcontract
分包商	subcontractor
分化	to split apart; differentiation
分區	allocated area (for housing, industry etc); district
分升	deciliter
分叉	to branch; to fork; fork; branch; bifurcation
分句	clause (grammar)
分地	to distribute land
分外	exceptionally; not one's responsibility or job
分娩	to give birth to a baby; (of animals) to give birth to young
分子	(chemistry) molecule; (math.) numerator of a fraction
分子式	molecular formula
分子料理	molecular gastronomy
分子生物學	molecular biology
分子篩	molecular sieve
分子遺傳學	molecular genetics
分子醫學	molecular medicine
分子量	molecular mass
分子雜交	molecular hybridization
分宜縣	Fenyi, a county in Xinyu City 新余市[Xin1 yu2 Shi4], Jiangxi
分家	to separate and live apart
分寸	propriety; appropriate behavior; proper speech or action
分封	to divide and confer (property on one's descendants)
分封制	the feudal system; system of enfeoffment
分局	branch office; sub-bureau
分居	to separate (married couple)
分屍	to dismember a corpse
分屏	(computing) to split a screen into multiple sections to display different content simultaneously
分層	lamination; layering; stratification
分屬	classification
分岔	(formal) to bifurcate; to branch; (formal) bifurcation; branching
分崩離析	to collapse and fall apart (idiom); to break up; falling to pieces
分巡兵備道	(Qing dynasty) provincial surveillance and defense commission
分工	to divide up the work; division of labor
分布圖	scatter diagram; distribution chart; histogram
分店	branch (of a chain store); annex
分度	graduation (of a measuring instrument)
分庭抗禮	peer competition; to function as rivals; to make claims as an equal
分式	(math.) fractional expression
分形	fractal
分形幾何	fractal geometry
分形幾何學	fractal geometry
分心	to divert one's attention; to get distracted
分憂	to share tribulations; to help sb with worries and difficulties
分成	to divide (into); to split a bonus; to break into
分房	to sleep in separate rooms; distribution of social housing
分所	branch (of a company etc)
分手	to part company; to split up; to break up
分手代理	"break-up agent", person who acts for sb who wishes to terminate a relationship but does not have the heart to do so
分手炮	(slang) breakup sex
分批	to do sth in batches or groups
分拆	to separate off; to hive off; a demerger
分掉	to share; to divide up
分揀	to sort (mail)
分擔	to share (a burden, a cost, a responsibility)
分攤	to share (costs, responsibilities); to apportion
分支	branch (of company, river etc); to branch; to diverge
分散	to scatter; to disperse; to distribute
分散和弦	(music) arpeggio
分散式	distributed
分數	(exam) grade; mark; score
分數掛帥	preoccupied with school grades; overemphasis on test scores
分數線	horizontal line (in a fraction); minimum passing score
分文	a single penny; a single cent
分文不取	to give for free
分明	clear; distinct; evidently
分星掰兩	punctilious; clear and detailed
分時	time-sharing (shared use, e.g. of a holiday home)
分時多工	time division multiplexing; TDM
分曉	the result (becomes apparent); now one understands
分會	branch
分會場	sub-venues
分期	by stages; staggered; step by step
分期付款	to pay in installments; payment in installments
分析	to analyze; analysis
分析人士	analyst; expert
分析化學	analytical chemistry
分析員	analyst (e.g. of news)
分析器	analyzer
分析學	analysis (branch of mathematics)
分析家	(political) analyst
分析師	analyst; commentator
分析心理學	analytical psychology; Jungian psychology
分析法	the analytic method; analytic reasoning
分析處理	to parse; analysis processing; to analyze and treat
分析語	analytic language
分枝	branch
分校	branch of a school
分桃	homosexual
分機	(telephone) extension
分權	separation of powers
分權制衡	separation of powers for checks and balances
分步驟	step by step; one step at a time
分歧	divergent; difference (of opinion, position); disagreement
分歧點	point of disagreement
分段	to divide (sth) into sections; to segment
分母	(math.) denominator of a fraction
分毫	fraction; slightest difference; hairsbreadth
分毫之差	hairsbreadth difference
分水嶺	dividing range; drainage divide; (fig.) dividing line
分水線	watershed
分汊	(hydrology) (of a river) to diverge; to branch
分治	separate government; partition
分泌	to secrete; secretion
分泌物	secretion
分泌顆粒	secretory granule
分波多工	wavelength division multiplexing; WDM
分洪	to separate flood; flood defense
分派	to assign (a task to different people); to allocate
分流	to diverge; to divert; to divide into separate streams (river flow, traffic etc)
分流電路	shunt circuit; current divider (electronics)
分清	to distinguish (between different things); to make distinctions clear
分為	to divide sth into (parts); to subdivide
分爭	to dispute; to struggle for mastery
分班	to divide people into groups, teams, squads etc
分瓦	deciwatt
分生組織	meristem
分產主義	(economics) distributism
分界線	dividing line
分異	distinction; differentiation
分當	as should be; as expected
分發	to distribute; distribution; to assign (sb) to a job
分相	split phase (elec.)
分社	subdivision or branch of an organization; news bureau
分神	to give some attention to; to divert one's attention; to be distracted
分秒必爭	seize every minute and second (idiom); not a minute to lose
分租	(of a landlord) to rent out one or more parts of a property
分竈吃飯	"meals prepared at separate stoves", slogan of the program of fiscal decentralization that began in the 1980s in the PRC
分立	to establish as separate entities
分站	substation
分管	to be put in charge of; to be responsible for; branched passage
分節	segmented
分米	decimeter
分系統	subsystem
分紅	dividend; to award a bonus
分級	to rank; to grade; to classify
分組	to divide into groups; group (formed from a larger group); subgroup
分組交換	packet switching
分給	to divide (and give to others)
分縫	part (in one's hair)
分而治之	(idiom) to divide and rule
分肥	to unfairly divide benefits, favoring a few
分至點	common word for equinox and solstice; point of difference
分色	color separation
分色鏡頭	process lens (working by color separation)
分蘖	to tiller; to produce secondary shoots (in cereal crops)
分號	semicolon; branch (of a business, shop etc)
分行	branch of bank or store; subsidiary bank
分袂	to leave each other; to part company
分裂	to split up; to divide; to break up
分裂主義	separatism
分裂情感性障礙	schizoaffective disorder
分裂組織	separatist group; (botany) meristem
分裝	to divide into portions; to package in smaller quantities
分裝機	racking machine; filling machine
分角器	a protractor (device to divide angles)
分角線	(Tw) angle bisector
分解	to resolve; to decompose; to break down
分解代謝	catabolism (biology); metabolic breaking down and waste disposal
分解作用	decomposition
分解者	(biology) decomposer
分設	to set up separately; to establish separate units
分訴	to narrate; to explain; to justify oneself
分詞	participle; word segmentation
分說	to explain (the difference)
分貝	decibel
分賬	to share profits (or debt)
分贓	to share the booty; to divide ill-gotten gains
分赴	to go separately to different places (esp. to carry out assigned tasks)
分身	(of one who has supernatural powers) to replicate oneself so as to appear in two or more places at the same time
分身乏術	to be up to one's ears in work (idiom)
分辨	to distinguish; to differentiate; to resolve
分辨率	resolution (of images, monitors, scanners etc)
分辯	to explain the facts; to defend against an accusation
分述	to elaborate; detailed explanation
分送	to send; to distribute
分道揚鑣	lit. to take different roads and urge the horses on (idiom)
分部	branch; subsection; to subdivide
分配	to distribute; to assign; to allocate
分配器	dispenser (for consumables such as liquid soap)
分配律	(math.) distributive law
分野	dividing line between distinct realms; boundary
分量	quantity; weight; measure
分針	minute hand (of a clock or watch)
分銷	distribution; retail store
分銷商	distributor
分銷店	retail store
分銷網絡	distribution network
分錄	entry (accounting)
分錢	cent; penny
分鍋	(dialect) to set up separate households
分鏡	storyboard
分鏡表	storyboard
分鏡頭	storyboard
分鐘	minute
分門別類	(idiom) to organize by categories; to classify
分開	to separate; to part
分隊	military platoon or squad
分隔	to divide; to separate; partition
分際	boundary; dividing line (between roles, spheres or concepts); limits (of propriety, duty etc)
分離	to separate
分離主義	separatism
分離分子	separatist
分音符	dieresis; umlaut; diacritical mark separating two adjacent syllables
分頁	(computing) to insert a page break; to paginate; pagination
分頁符	page break
分項	sub-item (of program)
分頭	separately; severally; parted hair
分頭路	part (in one's hair)
分頻	frequency sharing; subdivision of radio waveband
分類	to classify
分類學	taxonomy; taxology; systematics
分類帳	a ledger; a spreadsheet
分類理論	classification theory
分餐	to eat individual meals (rather than taking one's food from plates served to everyone at the table)
分餾	fractional distillation
分點	point of division
切	to cut; to slice; to carve; (math.) tangential
切·格瓦拉	Ernesto Che Guevara (1928–1967), Cuban Revolution leader
切中	to hit the target (esp. in argument); to strike home
切中時弊	to hit home on the evils of the day (idiom); fig. to hit a current political target
切中時病	to hit the target where it hurts (idiom); fig. to hit home
切中要害	to hit the target and do real damage (idiom)
切入	to cut into
切刀	cutter; knife
切分音	syncopation
切切	urgently; eagerly; worried
切削	to cut; cutting; machining
切割	to cut
切勿	by no means
切口	slang; argot; private language used as secret code
切合	to fit in with; to suit; appropriate
切合實際	practical; corresponding to reality; geared to practical situations
切向	tangent direction
切向力	tangential force
切向速度	tangential velocity
切向量	tangent vector
切囑	urgent advice; to exhort
切塊	to cut into pieces
切實	feasible; realistic; practical
切實可行	feasible
切尼	Cheney (name)
切平面	(geometry) tangent plane
切忌	to avoid as taboo; to avoid by all means
切成	to cut up (into pieces); to slice; to carve
切換	to switch over; to switch modes or data streams
切斷	to cut off; to sever
切望	to eagerly anticipate
切末	stage props
切杆	chip (golf shot)
切爾西	(name) Chelsea
切爾諾貝利	Chernobyl
切片	to slice; slice
切片檢查	histopathological examination; biopsy
切牙	incisor tooth
切特豪斯學校	Charterhouse public school (UK)
切痛	sharp pain
切盼	(formal) to earnestly hope
切碎	to chop
切磋	to compare notes; to learn from one another
切磋琢磨	lit. cutting and polishing (idiom)
切空間	space of sections (math.)
切糕	traditional Xinjiang sweet walnut cake
切結書	affidavit; written pledge
切線	tangent line (geometry)
切肉刀	meat cleaver
切脈	to feel sb's pulse
切腹	harakiri (formal Japanese: seppuku), a samurai's suicide by disemboweling
切膚之痛	keenly felt pain; bitter anguish
切莫	you must not; Please don't...; be sure not to
切菜板	cutting board; chopping board
切葉蜂	leafcutter bee
切要	essential; extremely important
切觸	osculation (higher order tangency)
切記	remember at all costs
切診	(TCM) pulse feeling and palpitation, one of the four methods of diagnosis 四診|四诊[si4 zhen3]
切變	shear (physics)
切責	to blame; to reprimand
切身	direct; concerning oneself; personal
切近	close; near; similar to
切迫	urgent
切達	Cheddar (cheese)
切除	to excise; to cut out (a tumor)
切面	section; cross-cut; tangent plane (math.)
切音	(historical) to indicate a Chinese character's pronunciation using fanqie 反切[fan3 qie4]
切韻	Qieyun, the first Chinese rime dictionary from 601 AD, containing 11,500 single-character entries
切題	to keep to the subject
切骨之仇	bitter hatred; hatred that cuts to the bone
切點	contact (math.)
切齒	to gnash one's teeth (in anger)
切齒腐心	to detest sth or sb to the utmost extreme (idiom)
刈	mow
刈包	popular Taiwan snack, similar to a hamburger, steamed bun stuffed with pork, pickled vegetables, peanut powder and cilantro
刊	to print; to publish; publication
刊印	to set in print; to diffuse; to publish
刊正	to proofread and correct
刊物	publication
刊登	to carry a story; to publish (in a newspaper or magazine)
刊發	(of a newspaper or magazine) to publish (an article, story, report etc); to carry
刊號	issue number (of a magazine etc)
刊行	to print and circulate
刊誤	to correct printing errors
刊載	to publish; to carry (a piece of writing, news, image etc) in a periodical or other publication
刊頭	newspaper or magazine masthead
刊首語	foreword; preface
刌	(literary) to cut off; to sever
刎	cut across (throat)
刑	punishment; penalty; sentence
刑事	criminal; penal
刑事審判庭	criminal court
刑事局	Criminal Investigation Bureau (CIB)
刑事拘留	to detain as criminal; criminal detention
刑事法庭	criminal court
刑事法院	criminal court; judiciary court
刑事犯	a criminal
刑事犯罪	criminal offense
刑事訴訟法	criminal procedure
刑事警察	criminal police; member of the criminal police
刑事警察局	Criminal Investigation Bureau
刑人	criminal to be executed; to execute a criminal
刑偵	criminal investigation
刑具	punishment equipment; torture instrument
刑名	xing-ming, a school of thought of the Warring States period associated with Shen Buhai 申不害[Shen1 Bu4 hai4]
刑名之學	xing-ming, a school of thought of the Warring States period associated with Shen Buhai 申不害[Shen1 Bu4 hai4]
刑堂	torture chamber
刑場	execution ground
刑天	Xingtian, headless giant hero of Chinese mythology decapitated by the Yellow Emperor 黃帝|黄帝[Huang2 di4]
刑庭	criminal court (abbr. for 刑事法庭[xing2 shi4 fa3 ting2])
刑律	criminal law
刑戮	(literary) corporal punishment or execution
刑房	office of punishment; torture chamber (esp. unofficial)
刑拘	to detain as criminal; criminal detention
刑期	prison term
刑杖	rod used for flogging offenders
刑案	criminal case
刑求	to extort confession by torture
刑法	criminal law
刑滿	to complete a prison sentence
刑網	legal net; the long arm of the law
刑罰	sentence; penalty; punishment
刑舂	to be forced to grind grain as a punishment (old)
刑訊	interrogation under torture; inquisition
刑訴法	criminal procedure; abbr. for 刑事訴訟法|刑事诉讼法
刑警	criminal police (abbr. for 刑事警察[xing2 shi4 jing3 cha2])
刑辱	to humiliate by torture
刑部	Ministry of Justice (in imperial China)
划	to row; to paddle; profitable
划不來	not worth it
划子	rowboat; small boat; oar; paddle
划得來	worth it; it pays to
划拉	to sweep; to brush away
划拳	finger-guessing game
划槳	to paddle
划算	to calculate; to weigh (pros and cons); to view as profitable
划船	to row a boat; rowing; boating; small boat
划船機	rowing machine
划艇	rowing boat; racing row-boat
刓	to trim
刖	to amputate one or both feet (punishment in imperial China) (one of the five mutilating punishments 五刑[wu3 xing2])
列	to arrange; to line up; file
列位	ladies and gentlemen; all of you present
列侯	duke (old); nobleman; gentry
列傳	historical biography
列克	lek (Albanian unit of currency)
列入	to include on a list
列兵	private (army)
列出	to list; to make a list
列別捷夫	Lebedev or Lebedyev (Russian surname)
列印	to print out (Tw)
列國	various countries
列夫·托爾斯泰	Leo Tolstoy (1828–1910), Russian novelist
列子	Lie Zi, Daoist author, said to be early Warring States period 戰國|战国[Zhan4 guo2]
列寧	Vladimir Ilyich Lenin (1870-1924), Russian revolutionary leader
列寧主義	Leninism
列寧格勒	Leningrad, former name (1923–1991) of Russian city Saint Petersburg 聖彼得堡|圣彼得堡[Sheng4 bi3 de2 bao3]
列島	archipelago; chain of islands
列席	to attend a meeting as a nonvoting delegate
列弗	lev (Bulgarian unit of currency)
列強	the Great Powers (history)
列支	to list as an expenditure
列支敦士登	Liechtenstein
列支敦斯登	Liechtenstein (Tw)
列明	to list; to specify
列星	star alignment (in astrology)
列氏溫標	Réaumur temperature scale
列治文	Richmond (place name or surname)
列為	to be classified as
列王紀上	First book of Kings
列王紀下	Second book of Kings
列王記上	First book of Kings
列王記下	Second book of Kings
列祖列宗	(idiom) one's ancestors through the generations
列缺	lightning (archaic word)
列缺霹靂	lightning and thunder
列舉	a list; to list; to enumerate
列表	to tabulate; to list; table; list
列裝	(of new weapons or equipment) to enter service (with a military unit); to be commissioned
列車	(railway) train
列車員	train attendant
列車長	conductor; train manager
列隊	in formation (military)
刜	to chop; strike
初	(bound form) at first; initially; (bound form) first; early
初一	first year in junior middle school; first day of a lunar month
初三	third year in junior middle school; third day of a lunar month
初中	junior high school (abbr. for 初級中學|初级中学[chu1 ji2 zhong1 xue2])
初中生	junior high student
初二	second year in junior middle school; second day of a lunar month
初伏	the first of the three annual periods of hot weather (三伏[san1 fu2]), which typically begins in mid-July and lasts 10 days
初估	to make a preliminary estimate
初來乍到	to be a newcomer; just off the boat
初具規模	(of a project, organization etc) to have begun to take shape
初冬	early winter
初出茅廬	venturing from one's thatched hut for the first time (idiom)
初刻拍案驚奇	Slapping the Table in Amazement (Part I), first of two books of vernacular stories by Ming dynasty novelist Ling Mengchu 凌濛初|凌蒙初[Ling2 Meng2 chu1]
初創	startup (company, phase etc); newly established
初創公司	startup company
初升	rising (sun, moon etc)
初唐四傑	the Four Great Poets of the Early Tang, namely Wang Bo 王勃[Wang2 Bo2], Yang Jiong 楊炯|杨炯[Yang2 Jiong3], Lu Zhaolin 盧照鄰|卢照邻[Lu2 Zhao4 lin2], and Luo Binwang 駱賓王|骆宾王[Luo4 Bin1 wang2]
初夏	early summer
初夜	early evening; wedding night; (fig.) first sexual encounter
初始	initial; starting (point)
初始化	(computing) to initialize; initialization
初婚	to marry for the first time; to be newly married
初學者	beginning student
初審	preliminary trial
初小	lower elementary school (abbr. for 初級小學|初级小学[chu1 ji2 xiao3 xue2])
初年	early years
初心	(one's) original intention, aspiration etc
初戀	first love
初戀感覺	feelings of first love
初戰	first battle; initial engagement (of a war or military campaign)
初探	to conduct an exploratory foray into (an area of study, a market etc)
初文	archaic (and simpler) form of a Chinese character
初更	first of the five night watch periods 19:00-21:00 (old)
初期	initial stage; beginning period
初次	for the first time; first (meeting, attempt etc)
初步	initial; preliminary; tentative
初步設想	tentative idea
初潮	menarche
初犯	first offender; first offense
初生	newborn; nascent; primary (biology)
初生牛犢不怕虎	lit. newborn calves do not fear tigers (idiom)
初秋	early autumn; 7th month of the lunar calendar
初稿	first draft (of writing)
初等	elementary (i.e. easy)
初等代數	elementary algebra
初等教育	primary education; junior school education
初級	junior; primary
初級中學	junior high school; junior middle school; lower secondary school
初級小學	lower elementary school
初聲	the initial consonant (or doubled consonant) of a Korean syllable
初葉	early part (of a decade, century etc); the first years
初衷	original intention
初設	first founded
初試	preliminary exam; qualifying exam; first try
初試身手	to have a try; to try one's hand; initial foray
初識	to meet (sb) for the first time; to encounter (a place, an idea etc) for the first time
初賽	preliminary contest; initial heats of a competition
初選	primary election
初露	first sign (of budding talent)
初露才華	first sign of budding talent
初露鋒芒	first sign of budding talent
初露頭角	lit. to first show one's horns (idiom); fig. a first show of emerging talent
刡	to scrape; to pare
判	(bound form) to differentiate; to distinguish
判令	decree; (of a court) to order
判例	judicial precedent
判例法	case law
判刑	to sentence (to prison etc)
判別	to differentiate; to discriminate
判別式	(math.) discriminant (e.g. b²-4ac in the formula for the roots of a quadratic equation)
判官	magistrate (during Tang and Song dynasties)
判定	to judge; to decide; judgment
判據	criterion; criteria
判斷	to judge; to determine; judgment
判斷力	ability to judge; judgment
判斷語	predicate
判明	to distinguish; to ascertain
判決	judgment (by a court of law); to pass judgment on; to sentence
判然	markedly; clearly
判罪	to convict (sb of a crime)
判罰	to penalize; penalty
判若兩人	to be a different person; not to be one's usual self
判若雲泥	as different as heaven and earth (idiom); worlds apart
判處	to sentence; to condemn
判袂	(literary) (of two people) to separate; to part
判讀	to interpret (a visual document, a medical exam, an historical event etc)
判賠	to sentence (sb) to pay compensation
別	to leave; to part (from); (literary) to differentiate; to distinguish
別人	other people; others; other person
別人牽驢你拔橛子	lit. someone else stole the donkey; you only pulled up the stake it was tethered to (idiom)
別來無恙	(literary) I trust you have been well since we last met
別傳	supplementary biography
別克	Buick
別具一格	having a unique or distinctive style
別具匠心	to show ingenuity; (of a design) clever; brilliantly conceived
別出心裁	to hit on sth new (idiom); to display originality
別動隊	special detachment; commando; an armed secret agent squad
別名	alias; alternative name
別墅	villa
別太客氣	lit. no excessive politeness; Don't mention it!; You're welcome!
別子	hasp; pendant
別客氣	don't mention it; no formalities, please
別提了	say no more; don't bring it up; drop the subject
別有	to have other...; to have a special ...
別有天地	enchanting scenery; beautiful surroundings; world of its own
別有洞天	place of charm and beauty; scenery of exceptional charm
別有用心	to have an ulterior motive (idiom)
別有韻味	to have quite a lasting charm
別樣	different kind of; another sort of; special
別樹一幟	lit. to fly one's banner on a solitary tree (idiom); fig. to act as a loner
別樹一旗	lit. to fly one's banner on a solitary tree (idiom); fig. to act as a loner
別無	to have no other... (used in fixed expressions)
別無二致	(idiom) without the slightest difference
別無他法	there is no alternative
別無他物	nothing else
別無選擇	to have no other choice
別無長物	to possess nothing except bare necessities
別理	don't get involved; ignore it!
別的	else; other
別看	don't be fooled by the fact that
別稱	another name; alternative name
別筵	farewell banquet
別管	no matter (who, what etc)
別緒	emotions at time of parting
別緻	unusual; unique
別臉	to turn one's face away
別苗頭	(dialect) to compete with; to pit oneself against
別莊	villa
別處	elsewhere
別號	alias
別說	to say nothing of; not to mention; let alone
別論	a different matter; another story; (old) objection
別赫捷列夫	Vladimir Mikhailovich Bekhterev (1857-1927), Russian neurologist and psychiatrist
別針	pin; safety pin; clip
別開生面	to start sth new or original (idiom); to break a new path
別離	to take leave of; to leave; separation
刨	carpenter's plane; to plane (woodwork); to shave off
刨冰	shaved or crushed ice dessert or beverage
刨刀	planing tool
刨子	plane
刨工	planing; planing machine operator; planer
刨床	planer; planing machine
刨根	lit. to dig up the root; to get to the heart of (the matter)
刨根問底	to dig up roots and inquire at the base (idiom); to get to the bottom of sth
刨程	planing length
刨筆刀	pencil sharpener
刨絲器	grater; shredder
刨花	wood shavings
刨花板	particle board; chipboard
刨齒	gear-shaping
利	sharp; favorable; advantage
利事	(Cantonese) same as 紅包|红包[hong2 bao1]
利什曼病	leishmaniasis (medicine)
利他	to benefit others; altruism
利他主義	altruism
利他林	Ritalin (brand name)
利他能	Ritalin (brand name)
利他行為	altruistic behavior
利他靈	Ritalin (brand name)
利令智昏	to lose one's head through material greed (idiom)
利伯曼	Liberman, Lieberman or Liebermann (name)
利伯維爾	Libreville, capital of Gabon
利刀	sharp knife; knife (weapon)
利刃	sharp blade
利劍	sharp sword
利勒哈默爾	Lillehammer (city in Norway)
利口酒	(loanword) liqueur
利古里亞	Liguria, northwest Italy
利器	sharp weapon; effective implement; outstandingly able individual
利國利民	to benefit both the country and the people
利基	asset that gives a competitive advantage; a strength; (market) niche
利多卡因	(loanword) lidocaine
利奈唑胺	Linezolid, a synthetic antibiotic
利好	(finance) sth that engenders bullish sentiment; favorable news
利害	pros and cons; advantages and disadvantages; gains and losses
利害攸關	to be of vital interest
利害衝突	conflict of interest
利害關係	stake; vital interest; concern
利害關係人	stakeholder; interested party; interested person
利害關係方	interested party
利尿	to promote urination; diuresis
利尿劑	diuretic
利川市	Lichuan, a county-level city in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
利州區	Lizhou, a district of Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
利己	personal profit; to benefit oneself
利己主義	egoism
利市	business profit; auspicious; lucky
利弊	pros and cons; merits and drawbacks; advantages and disadvantages
利得	profit; gain
利得稅	profit tax
利息	interest (on a loan)
利息率	interest rate
利慾	cupidity
利慾心	cupidity
利慾薰心	blinded by greed (idiom)
利手	dominant hand; handedness
利於	to be beneficial to; to be conducive to
利未記	Book of Leviticus; Third Book of Moses
利樂包	carton (e.g. for milk or juice); Tetra Pak
利權	economic rights (e.g. of a state monopoly)
利比亞	Libya
利比里亞	Liberia
利民	to benefit the people
利津縣	Lijin, a county in Dongying City 東營市|东营市[Dong1 ying2 Shi4], Shandong
利滾利	compound interest (esp. in loans, snowballing debt)
利潤	profits
利潤率	profit margin
利爪	sharp claw; talon
利物浦	Liverpool (England)
利率	interest rate
利瑪竇	Matteo Ricci (1552-1610), Jesuit missionary and translator in Ming China
利用	to exploit; to make use of; to use
利益	benefit; (in sb's) interest
利益衝突	conflict of interest
利益輸送	to make use of one's position to gain profit for oneself or one's associates
利益集團	interest group
利眠寧	chlordiazepoxide; (trade name) Librium (loanword)
利祿	wealth and official post
利空	(finance) sth that engenders bearish sentiment; unfavorable news
利納克斯	Linux (operating systems)
利索	nimble
利維坦	(loanword) leviathan
利茲	Leeds
利落	agile; nimble; all settled
利誘	to use gain as a lure
利貼	Post-It note (3M trademark)
利賓納	Ribena
利辛縣	Lixin, a county in Bozhou City 亳州市[Bo2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
利通區	Litong, a district of Wuzhong City 吳忠市|吴忠市[Wu2 zhong1 Shi4], Ningxia
利錢	interest (on an investment etc)
利隆圭	Lilongwe, capital of Malawi
利雅得	Riyadh, capital of Saudi Arabia
利雅德	Riyadh, capital of Saudi Arabia (Tw)
利馬	Lima, capital of Peru
利馬索爾	Limassol, Cyprus; Lemesos
利默里克	Limerick, Ireland
刪	to delete
刪剪	to cut (from a movie etc); to censor
刪去	to delete
刪帖	to delete a forum post
刪掉	to delete
刪改	to edit; to modify; to alter (written material)
刪汰	(literary) to eliminate; to delete
刪減	to abridge (a text); to edit out (of a movie)
刪節	to abridge; to cut a text down to size for publication
刪簡壓縮	to simplify and condense (a text); abridged
刪除	to delete; to cancel
刮	to scrape; to blow; to shave
刮傷	scratch (wound); scratch (damage to an object)
刮刀	spatula; scraper
刮刮卡	lottery scratchcard
刮刮樂	scratch-and-win lottery
刮勺	scraper; trowel; putty knife
刮掉	to scrape off; to shave off (whiskers etc)
刮擦	to scrape
刮痧	gua sha (technique in TCM)
刮皮刀	peeler; potato peeler
刮目相看	to have a whole new level of respect for sb or sth
刮臉	to shave one's face
刮蹭	(esp. of a vehicle) to scrape against; to sideswipe
刮鏟	scraper
刮鬍刀	razor
刮鬍子	to shave (facial hair)
到	to reach; to arrive; to leave for; to go to
到不行	extremely; incredibly
到了	at last; finally; in the end
到什麼山上，唱什麼歌	lit. whatever mountain one is on, one should sing its songs (idiom)
到付	collect on delivery (COD)
到任	to take office; to assume a post
到位	to get to the intended location; to be in place; to be in position
到來	to arrive; arrival; advent
到場	to show up; present (at the scene)
到家	perfect; excellent; brought to the utmost degree
到岸價	cost, insurance, and freight (CIF) (transportation)
到底	finally; in the end; when all is said and done
到府服務	(Tw) to provide a service at the customer's home; to make a house call
到得	to arrive at (some place or time)
到手	to take possession of; to get hold of
到手軟	(do a manual task) until one's hands go limp with exhaustion
到時	at that (future) time
到時候	when the moment comes; at that time
到期	to fall due (loan etc); to expire (visa etc)
到期收益率	(finance) yield to maturity (YTM)
到期日	due date; expiry date; maturity date
到案	to make an appearance in court
到此	hereto; hereunto
到此一遊	(used in graffiti) "... was here"
到此為止	to stop at this point; to end here; to call it a day
到現在	up until now; to date
到目前為止	until now; so far
到處	everywhere
到訪	to pay a visit
到貨	(of packages or shipments) to arrive
到賬	(of money) to arrive in an account
到達	to reach; to arrive
到達大廳	arrival hall
到那個時候	until this moment
到頭	to the end (of); at the end of; in the end
到頭來	in the end; finally; as a result
到點	it's time (to do sth); the time has come
到齊	to be all present
刲	cut open and clean
刳	to cut open; rip up; scoop out
刵	cutting off the ears as punishment
制	system; to control; to regulate
制伏	to overpower; to overwhelm; to subdue
制動	to brake
制動器	brake
制動踏板	brake pedal
制勝	to win; to prevail; to come out on top
制定	to draw up; to formulate
制導	to control (the course of sth); to guide (a missile)
制度	system (e.g. political, adminstrative etc); institution
制度化	systematization
制式	standardized; standard (service, method etc)
制式化	standardization
制服	to subdue; to check; to bring under control
制服呢	(textiles) uniform coating; durable, warm fabric used for uniforms
制服店	(Tw) nightlife venue where hostesses wear themed uniforms (e.g. nurse, student, maid etc), often featuring a more openly flirtatious or physically intimate style of service
制止	to curb; to put a stop to; to stop
制空權	air supremacy; air superiority
制約	to restrict; condition
制藥業	pharmaceutical industry
制衡	to check and balance (power); checks and balances
制裁	to punish; punishment; sanctions (incl. economic)
制訂	to work out; to formulate
制酸劑	antacid (medicine)
制錢	copper coin of the Ming and Qing Dynasties
制霸	to reign supreme; to dominate (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 制霸 "seiha")
制高點	(military) high ground
刷	a brush; to paint; to daub; to brush; to scrub
刷入	to flash; to overwrite the firmware (computing)
刷劇	to binge-watch (TV)
刷卡	to use a credit card (or swipe card, smart card etc)
刷單	to generate fake transactions in order to game a commercial online platform (one that rewards users who make numerous transactions)
刷夜	to stay up all night; to pull an all-nighter
刷子	brush; scrub
刷屏	to flood (on an Internet forum etc)
刷手機	to scroll on one's smartphone; to check one's smartphone (for updates on social media etc)
刷扣	to strum a chord (Tw)
刷新	to renovate; to refurbish; to refresh (computer window)
刷新率	refresh rate (of a screen)
刷新紀錄	to set a new record
刷機	to replace firmware (on a mobile device)
刷洗	to scrub clean
刷爆	to max out (a credit card)
刷牙	to brush one's teeth
刷臉	to scan one's face (for identity verification)
刷頭	brush head
刷題	to do a lot of practice questions (to prepare for an exam)
券	bond (esp. document split in two, with each party holding one half)
券商	securities dealer; share broker
刺	thorn; sting; thrust
刺中	to hit with a piercing blow
刺五加	manyprickle (Acanthopanax senticosus), root used in TCM
刺傷	to stab
刺兒	a thorn; fig. to ridicule sb; fig. sth wrong
刺兒李	gooseberry
刺兒話	biting words; stinging words
刺兒頭	troublesome person; difficult person to deal with
刺刀	bayonet
刺刺不休	to talk incessantly; to chatter on and on
刺史	provincial governor (old)
刺字	to tattoo
刺客	assassin
刺戳	to stab; to pierce
刺探	to pry into; to spy on; to probe into
刺柏	Chinese juniper
刺桐	Indian coral tree; sunshine tree; tiger's claw
刺梨	chestnut rose fruit (hip of Rosa roxburghii), used in TCM
刺棱	(onom.) sound of quick movement; Taiwan pr. [ci4leng2]
刺槐	false acacia; Robinia pseudoacacia
刺死	to stab to death
刺殺	to assassinate; (military) to fight with a bayonet
刺激	to provoke; to irritate; to upset; to stimulate; to excite; irritant
刺激劑	irritant agent
刺激性	thrilling; exciting; stimulating
刺激物	stimulus
刺痛	to tingle; to sting; to have a sudden sharp pain; (fig.) to hurt deeply
刺目	gaudy; glaring; unpleasant to the eyes
刺眼	to dazzle; to offend the eyes; dazzling
刺破	to puncture; to pierce
刺穿	to skewer; to impale; to pierce through
刺絲囊	nematocyst; capsule of nettle cells of medusa or anemone
刺絲胞	cnidocyte; nettle cell of medusa or anemone
刺繡	to embroider; embroidery
刺繡品	embroidery
刺耳	ear-piercing
刺胞	cnidocyte; nettle cell of medusa
刺胞動物	cnidarian (member of the phylum Cnidaria, including jellyfish and corals)
刺花	to tattoo; tattoo
刺花紋	to tattoo
刺芹菇	king trumpet mushroom (Pleurotus eryngii)
刺莧	prickly amaranth (Amaranthus spinosus)
刺蝟	hedgehog
刺身	sashimi
刺鋼絲	barbed wire
刺青	to tattoo; a tattoo
刺骨	piercing; cutting; bone-chilling
刺鼻	to assail the nostrils; acrid; pungent
刻	quarter (hour); moment; to carve
刻不容緩	to brook no delay; to demand immediate action
刻刀	engraving knife; carving knife (for wood, stone etc)
刻剝	to grab money; to exploit
刻印	to engrave a seal; stamp mark; to print with carved type
刻奇	(loanword) kitsch, in a sense that originates in the writing of Milan Kundera: getting emotional about sth due to the influence of social conditioning
刻寫	to inscribe
刻度	marked scale; graduated scale
刻度盤	dial (e.g. of a radio etc)
刻意	intentionally; deliberately; purposely; painstakingly; meticulously
刻意求工	assiduous and painstaking
刻意為之	to make a conscious effort; to do something deliberately
刻本	block printed edition
刻板	stiff; inflexible; mechanical
刻板印象	stereotype
刻毒	spiteful; venomous
刻版	engraved blocks (for printing)
刻畫	to portray
刻痕	notch
刻舟求劍	lit. a notch on the side of a boat to locate a sword dropped overboard (idiom); fig. an action made pointless by changed circumstances
刻苦	hardworking; assiduous
刻苦耐勞	to bear hardships and work hard (idiom); assiduous and long-suffering
刻苦鑽研	to study diligently
刻薄	unkind; harsh; cutting
刻薄寡恩	harsh and merciless (idiom)
刻錄	to record on a CD or DVD; to burn a disc
刻錄機	disk burner
刻骨	ingrained; entrenched; deep-rooted
刻骨相思	deep-seated lovesickness (idiom)
刻骨銘心	lit. carved in bones and engraved in the heart (idiom)
刻鵠類鶩	to aim to carve a swan and get a semblance of a duck (idiom)
剁	to chop up (meat etc); to chop off (sb's hand etc)
剁手節	(jocular) a day of frenetic online spending, such as Singles' Day
剁手黨	online shopaholic
剁椒	pickled chopped chilies (usually used as a condiment)
剁碎	to mince
剃	to shave
剃光頭	to shave the whole head clean; crushing defeat
剃刀	razor
剃度	to take the tonsure; to shave the head
剃頭	to have one's head shaved
剃頭挑子一頭熱	lit. only one end of the barber's pole is hot (idiom)
剃髮令	the Qing order to all men to shave their heads but keep a queue, first ordered in 1646
剃髮留辮	to shave the head but keep the queue
剃鬚	to shave (facial hair)
剃鬚刀	shaver; razor
剃鬚膏	shaving cream
剄	cut the throat
剅	(dialect) an opening at the bottom of a dike for letting water in or out
則	(literary) (conjunction used to express contrast with a previous clause) but; then
則個	(old sentence-final expression used for emphasis)
則已	(literary) used in expressions of the form 不[bu4] + (verb) + 則已|则已[ze2 yi3] ... "either don't (verb) at all, or if you do, ..."
則步隆	Zabulon or Zebulun, biblical land between Jordan and Galilee (Matthew 4:15)
則辣黑	Zerah (son of Judah in the Old Testament)
剉	(literary) to fracture (a bone); (literary) to cut; to hack
剉冰	shaved ice dessert (Tw)
剉屍	to cut the corpse of a criminal into pieces
削	to peel with a knife; to pare; to cut (a ball at tennis etc)
削價	to cut down the price
削尖	to sharpen
削弱	to weaken; to impair; to cripple
削波	clipping (signal processing)
削減	to cut down; to reduce; to lower
削球	(sport) to chop; to cut
削瘦	thin; lean; slender
削籍	(of an official) dismissal from office (old)
削職	demotion; to have one's job cut
削職為民	demotion to commoner (idiom)
削足適履	to cut the feet to fit the shoes (idiom); to force sth to fit (as to a Procrustean bed)
削鉛筆	to sharpen a pencil
削鉛筆機	pencil sharpener (mechanical or electric)
削除	to remove; to eliminate; to delete
削髮	to shave one's head; fig. to become a monk or nun; to take the tonsure
剋	Ke (c. 2000 BC), seventh of the legendary Flame Emperors, 炎帝[Yan2 di4] descended from Shennong 神農|神农[Shen2 nong2] Farmer God
剋扣	to wrongfully withhold part of what is due (to sb); to shortchange; to skim (pay, rations, resources etc)
剋星	nemesis; bane; fated to be ill-matched
剋架	to scuffle; to come to blows
剌	perverse; unreasonable; absurd
前	front; forward; ahead
前一向	lately; in the recent past
前一天	the day before (an event)
前三甲	top three
前不久	not long ago; not long before
前不著村，後不著店	lit. no village ahead and no inn behind (idiom)
前不見古人，後不見來者	unique; unprecedented (idiom)
前世	previous life; former incarnation
前世姻緣	a marriage predestined in a former life (idiom)
前事	past events; antecedent; what has happened
前事不忘，後事之師	don't forget past events, they can guide you in future (idiom); benefit from past experience
前些	a few (days, years etc) ago
前人	predecessor; forebears; the person facing you
前人栽樹，後人乘涼	to enjoy the benefits of the hard work of one's predecessors. (idiom)
前仆後繼	one falls, the next follows (idiom); stepping into the breach to replace fallen comrades
前仰後合	to sway to and fro; to rock back and forth
前件	antecedent (logic)
前任	predecessor; ex-; former
前來	to come (formal); before; previously
前例	precedent
前信號燈	car front indicator
前俯後仰	to rock one's body backward and forward
前倨後恭	to switch from arrogance to deference (idiom)
前備箱	front trunk (of a car); frunk
前傳	forward pass (sport)
前傾	to lean forward
前兆	omen; prior indication; first sign
前兒	before; day before yesterday
前冠	heading; prefix
前凸後翹	(of a woman) to have nice curves; buxom; shapely
前列	the very front
前列腺	prostate gland
前列腺炎	prostatitis
前列腺素	prostaglandin
前功盡棄	to waste all one's previous efforts (idiom)
前半夜	first half of the night (from nightfall to midnight)
前半天	morning; a.m.; first half of the day
前半晌	morning; a.m.; first half of the day
前半生	first half of one's life
前叉	fork (bicycle component)
前司	(coll.) previous company one worked at
前咽	prepharynx (biology)
前哨	outpost; (fig.) front line
前哨戰	skirmish
前因	antecedents
前因後果	cause and effects (idiom); entire process of development
前塵	the past
前夕	eve; the day before
前夜	the eve; the night before
前大燈	headlight
前天	the day before yesterday
前夫	former husband
前奏	prelude; presage
前奏曲	prelude (music)
前女友	ex-girlfriend
前妻	ex-wife; late wife
前嫌	former hatred; bygone enmity
前寒武紀	pre-Cambrian, geological period before c. 540m years ago
前導	to precede; to guide
前年	the year before last
前幾天	a few days ago; a few days before; the past few days
前庭	front courtyard; vestibule
前庭窗	fenestra vestibuli (of inner ear)
前廊	front porch
前廳	anteroom; vestibule; lobby (of a hotel etc)
前往	to leave for; to proceed towards; to go to
前後	around; from beginning to end; all around
前後文	context; the surrounding words; same as 上下文
前怕狼後怕虎	lit. to fear the wolf in front and the tiger behind (idiom)
前情	former love; former circumstances
前意識	preconscious; preconsciousness
前戲	foreplay
前房角	anterior chamber (the front chamber of the eye)
前所未有	(idiom) unprecedented
前所未聞	(idiom) unheard-of; unprecedented
前所未見	unprecedented; never seen before
前排	front row
前掠翼	swept-forward wing (on jet fighter)
前提	premise; precondition; prerequisite
前提條件	preconditions
前揭	(the item) named above; aforementioned; cited above
前擺	(dialect) last time
前攝	front camera (on a smartphone etc) (abbr. for 前置攝像頭|前置摄像头[qian2 zhi4 she4 xiang4 tou2])
前敵	front line (military)
前文	the text above; the preceding text
前方	ahead; the front
前方高能	(slang) Something awesome is about to happen! (originally, in a Japanese space battleship anime, it meant "Danger! High energy up ahead!" — a warning to either prepare for battle or take evasive action)
前日	day before yesterday
前晌	(dialect) morning; forenoon
前景	foreground; vista; (future) prospects
前景可期	to have a promising future; to have bright prospects
前朝	the previous dynasty
前期	preceding period; early stage
前桅	foremast
前橋	Maebashi (surname or place name)
前此	before today
前段	front part (of an object); first part (of an event)
前段時間	recently
前沿	(military) forward position; frontier; cutting-edge; forefront
前涼	Former Liang, one of the Sixteen Kingdoms (314-376)
前漢	Former Han dynasty (206 BC-8 AD), also called 西漢|西汉[Xi1 Han4], Western Han dynasty
前漢書	History of the Former Han Dynasty, second of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], composed by Ban Gu 班固[Ban1 Gu4] in 82 during Eastern Han (later Han), 100 scrolls
前無古人	(idiom) unprecedented; unheard of
前無古人，後無來者	there has never been and never will be another person like this (idiom)
前照燈	(vehicle) headlight
前燈	headlight
前燕	Former Yan of the Sixteen Kingdoms (337-370)
前生	previous life; previous incarnation
前田	Maeda (Japanese surname)
前甲板	forward deck (of a boat)
前男友	ex-boyfriend
前瞻	forward-looking; prescient; foresight
前瞻性	farsightedness; perspicacity; prescience
前科	criminal record; previous convictions
前秦	Former Qin (351–395), a dynastic state of China during the Sixteen Kingdoms period
前移式叉車	reach truck
前程	future (career etc) prospects
前程遠大	to have a future full of promise
前空翻	(acrobatics) front flip
前端	front; front end; forward part of sth
前端總線	(computing) front-side bus (FSB)
前綴	prefix (linguistics)
前線	front line; military front; workface
前緣未了	one's predestined fate is yet to be fulfilled (idiom)
前總理	former prime minister
前總統	former president
前置	to place before; frontal; leading; pre-
前置修飾語	premodifier (grammar)
前置攝像頭	front-facing camera
前置詞	preposition
前翅	front wing (of insect)
前者	the former (i.e. the one mentioned first)
前肢	forelimb; foreleg
前胃	proventriculus; forestomach
前胸	human chest; breast
前胸貼後背	(lit.) chest sticking to back; (fig.) famished
前腰	(soccer) attacking midfield; attacking midfielder role
前腳	one moment ..., (the next ...); leading foot (in walking)
前腿	forelegs
前臂	forearm
前臺	stage; proscenium; foreground in politics etc (sometimes derog.)
前臼齒	premolar tooth (immediately behind canine teeth in some mammals)
前艙	fore hold (on ship); bow cabin
前茅	forward patrol (military) (old); (fig.) the top ranks
前菜	appetizer; starter; hors d'oeuvre
前藥	(pharmacology) prodrug
前蘇聯	former Soviet Union
前行	(literary) to go forward
前衛	advanced guard; vanguard; avant-garde
前言	preface; foreword; introduction; preamble
前調	(perfumery) top note
前賢	sages of the past; worthy predecessors
前赴後繼	to advance dauntlessly in wave upon wave (idiom)
前趙	Former Zhao of the Sixteen Kingdoms (304-329)
前路	the road ahead
前身	forerunner; predecessor; precursor
前車之覆，後車之鑒	lit. the cart in front overturns, a warning to the following cart (idiom); fig. draw lesson from the failure of one's predecessor
前車之鑑	(lit.) a warning taken from the overturned cart ahead (idiom)
前輩	senior; older generation; precursor
前輪	front wheel
前述	aforestated; stated above; the preceding statement
前途	prospects; future outlook; journey
前途未卜	hanging in the balance; the future is hard to forecast; ¿Qué serà?
前途渺茫	not knowing what to do next; at a loose end
前途無量	to have boundless prospects
前進	to go forward; to forge ahead; to advance
前進區	Qianjin, a district of Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
前邊	front; the front side; in front of
前部	front part; front section
前郭爾羅斯蒙古族自治縣	Qian Gorlos Mongol Autonomous County, in Songyuan City 松原市[Song1 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
前金區	Cianjin, a district of Kaohsiung City 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 Shi4], Taiwan
前鋒	vanguard; front line; a forward (sports)
前鋒區	Qianfeng, a district of Guang'an City 廣安市|广安市[Guang3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
前鋸肌	serratus anterior muscle (upper sides of the chest)
前鎮區	Cianjhen, a district of Kaohsiung City 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 Shi4], Taiwan
前門	Qianmen subway station on Beijing Subway Line 2
前門打虎，後門打狼	to beat a tiger from the front door, only to have a wolf come in at the back (idiom); fig. facing one problem after another
前門拒虎，後門進狼	to beat a tiger from the front door, only to have a wolf come in at the back (idiom); fig. facing one problem after another
前院	front courtyard; front yard
前面	ahead; in front; preceding
前頭	in front; at the head; ahead
前額	forehead
前額葉皮質	prefrontal cortex (PFC)
前首相	former prime minister
前驅	precursor; pioneer
前體	(chemistry, biology) precursor
前鼻音	alveolar nasal
剎	Buddhist monastery, temple or shrine (abbr. for 剎多羅|刹多罗[cha4 duo1 luo2], Sanskrit "ksetra")
剎不住	unable to brake (stop)
剎住	to stop; to come to a halt
剎停	to brake to a halt
剎把	brake lever; crank handle for stopping or turning off machinery
剎時	in a flash; in the twinkling of an eye
剎車	to brake (when driving); to stop; to switch off
剎車燈	brake light
剎那	an instant (Sanskrit: ksana); split second; the twinkling of an eye
剒	to cut; to carve
剔	to scrape the meat from bones; to pick (teeth etc); to weed out
剔牙	to pick one's teeth
剔透	pure and limpid; (of a person) quick-witted
剔除	to reject; to discard; to get rid of
剕	amputation of limbs as corporal punishment
剖	to cut open; to analyze; Taiwan pr. [pou3]
剖宮產	birth by caesarean section
剖宮產手術	cesarean section
剖析	to analyze; to dissect
剖白	to explain oneself
剖腹	to cut open the abdomen; to disembowel; to speak from the heart
剖腹產	cesarean birth
剖腹產手術	cesarean section
剖腹自殺	hara-kiri
剖腹藏珠	lit. cutting one's stomach to hide a pearl (idiom)
剖視	to analyze; to dissect
剖視圖	section view; cutaway view
剖解	to analyze
剖解圖	cutaway diagram
剖辯	to analyze; to explain
剖面	profile; section
剚	erect; stab
剛	(literary) hard; firm; strong; exactly; precisely; barely; only just
剛一	to be just about to; to have just started to
剛健	energetic; robust
剛剛	just recently; just a moment ago
剛勁	bold; vigorous
剛好	just; exactly; to happen to be
剛察縣	Gangca, a county in Haibei Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海北藏族自治州[Hai3 bei3 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
剛巧	by chance; by coincidence; by good luck
剛度	stiffness
剛強	firm; unyielding
剛性	rigidity
剛愎	headstrong; perverse
剛愎自用	obstinate and self-opinionated (idiom)
剛才	just now; a moment ago
剛果	Congo (Congo-Brazzaville or Congo-Kinshasa)
剛果民主共和國	Democratic Republic of Congo
剛果河	Congo River
剛架	rigid frame
剛柔並濟	to couple strength and gentleness (idiom)
剛正	honest; upright
剛正不阿	upright and plainspoken
剛毅	resolute; steadfast; stalwart
剛毅木訥	resolute and taciturn (idiom)
剛毛	bristle
剛烈	resolute and upright in character; unyielding; staunch
剛玉	corundum (mineral)
剛直	upright and outspoken
剛纔	just now (variant of 剛才|刚才[gang1 cai2])
剛需	(economics) rigid demand; inelastic demand (abbr. for 剛性需求|刚性需求[gang1 xing4 xu1 qiu2])
剛體	rigid body
剜	to scoop out; to gouge out
剝	to peel; to skin; to shell
剝削	to exploit; exploitation
剝削者	exploiter (of labor)
剝削階級	exploiting class (in Marxist theory)
剝啄	(onom.) tap (on a door or window)
剝奪	to deprive; to expropriate; to strip (sb of his property)
剝掉	to peel off; to strip off
剝採比	stripping-to-ore ratio; stripping ratio
剝皮	to skin; to flay; to peel; (fig.) (coll.) to haul (sb) over the coals
剝皮器	peeler (e.g. for vegetables)
剝皮鉗	wire stripper
剝落	to peel off
剝蝕	to corrode; to expose by corrosion (geology)
剝除	to strip off; to peel off; to remove (esp. unwanted parts)
剝離	to peel; to strip; to peel off
剞	used in 剞劂[ji1 jue2]
剞劂	(literary) a knife used for carving; a graver
剟	to prick; to cut blocks, to engrave
剡	river in Zhejiang
剩	to remain; to be left; to have as remainder
剩下	to remain; to be left over
剩女	(coll.) "leftover woman" – a woman who remains single beyond the typical marrying age
剩男	(coll.) "leftover man" – a man who remains single beyond the typical marrying age
剩磁	residual magnetism
剩菜	leftovers (food)
剩錢	to have money left; remaining money
剩飯	leftover food
剩餘	to remain; to be left over; what remains; what's left
剩餘價值	(economics) surplus value
剩餘定理	the Remainder Theorem
剩餘放射性	residual radioactivity
剩餘輻射	residual radiation
剪	(bound form) scissors or similar tool; to cut as with scissors
剪刀	scissors
剪刀差	(economics) price scissors
剪刀手	V sign (hand gesture)
剪刀石頭布	rock-paper-scissors (game)
剪切	to cut (with scissors or similar tool); to shear; (geology) shear
剪切力	shear; shearing force
剪切形變	shearing; shear deformation
剪切板	(computing) clipboard
剪力	shear; shearing force
剪嘴鷗	(bird species of China) Indian skimmer (Rynchops albicollis)
剪報	newspaper cutting; clippings
剪子	clippers; scissors; shears
剪彩	to cut the ribbon (at a launching or opening ceremony)
剪影	paper-cut silhouette; outline; sketch
剪徑	to waylay and rob; highway robbery
剪應力	shear stress
剪成	cut into
剪掉	to cut off; to cut away; to trim
剪接	to edit (raw footage: film, video, audio etc); (genetics) to splice
剪接體	(genetics) spliceosome
剪斷	to cut; to snip
剪映	CapCut, a short-form video editing app developed by ByteDance 字節跳動|字节跳动[Zi4 jie2 Tiao4 dong4]
剪枝	to prune (branches etc)
剪片	to edit a film or video
剪紙	papercutting (Chinese folk art); to make paper cutouts
剪綵	to cut the ribbon (at an opening)
剪草機	lawnmower
剪草除根	lit. cut grass and pull out roots (idiom); fig. to destroy root and branch
剪裁	to tailor (clothes); to trim (expenditure)
剪貼板	(computing) clipboard
剪貼簿	scrapbook
剪輯	to edit (raw footage: film, video, audio etc); edited version
剪除	to eradicate; to exterminate
剪頭	to get a haircut; to give sb a haircut
剪頭髮	(to get a) haircut
剮	cut off the flesh as punishment
副	secondary; auxiliary; deputy
副主任	deputy director; assistant head
副主席	vice-chairperson
副乳	accessory breast; supernumerary breast; (coll.) bra bulge; armpit fat
副作用	side effect
副傷寒	paratyphoid fever
副刊	supplement
副司令	second in command
副品	product of inferior quality
副國務卿	undersecretary of state
副地級市	sub-prefecture-level city (county level division, administered by province, not under a prefecture)
副學士	associate's degree
副官	aide-de-camp
副室	concubine (old)
副將	deputy general
副州長	deputy governor (of a province or colony)
副市長	deputy mayor
副手	assistant
副教授	associate professor (university post)
副書記	deputy secretary
副本	copy; duplicate; transcript
副校長	vice-principal
副業	sideline; side occupation
副標題	subtitle (of a book etc); subheading
副檔名	(file) extension (computing) (Tw)
副歌	chorus; refrain
副法向量	binormal vector (to a space curve)
副熱帶	subtropical (zone or climate)
副理	deputy director; assistant manager
副產品	by-product
副產物	by-product (lit. and fig.)
副甲狀腺	parathyroid (Tw)
副甲狀腺素	parathyroid hormone (Tw)
副相	deputy prime minister
副省級	sub-provincial (not provincial status, but independent)
副省級城市	subprovincial city (having independent economic status within a province)
副睪	(Tw) epididymis
副科	(education) non-core subject
副秘書長	vice-secretary
副經理	deputy director; assistant manager
副總理	vice-premier; vice prime minister; deputy prime minister
副總統	vice-president
副總裁	vice-chairman (of an organization); vice president (of a company)
副翼	aileron (aeronautics)
副腎	adrenal glands
副菜	side dish; side order
副詞	adverb
副議長	vice-chairman
副部長	assistant (government) minister
副院長	deputy chair of board; vice-president (of a university etc)
副食	non-staple food
副食品	non-staple foods
副駕	copilot; co-driver (abbr. for 副駕駛員|副驾驶员[fu4 jia4 shi3 yuan2])
副駕駛	copilot; co-driver (abbr. for 副駕駛員|副驾驶员[fu4 jia4 shi3 yuan2])
副駕駛員	copilot; co-driver
副駕駛座	front passenger seat
副高	associate senior professional title; person holding such a title (abbr. for 副高級職稱|副高级职称[fu4 gao1 ji2 zhi2 cheng1])
副黏液病毒	paramyxovirus
割	to cut; to cut apart
割傷	to gash; to cut; gash
割包皮	to circumcise
割取	to cut off
割喉	to slit sb's throat
割席	(literary) to break off relations with a friend; to sever ties with sb
割愛	to part with sth cherished; to forsake
割捨	to give up; to part with
割接	(network) cutover; (system) migration
割損	circumcision (Bible term)
割據	to set up an independent regime; to secede; segmentation
割斷	to cut off; to sever
割棄	to discard; to abandon; to give (sth) up
割禮	circumcision (male or female)
割線	secant line (math.)
割肉	to cut some meat; to cut off a piece of flesh
割股療親	to cut flesh from one's thigh to nourish a sick parent (idiom)
割腕	to slit one's wrists
割草	mow grass
割草機	lawn mower (machine)
割袍斷義	to rip one's robe as a sign of repudiating a sworn brotherhood (idiom)
割裂	to cut apart; to sever; to separate; to isolate
割讓	to cede; cession
割除	to amputate; to excise (cut out)
割韭菜	(fig.) (coll.) to fleece a group of people repeatedly (esp. small investors, consumers or fans), treating them as an endlessly renewable resource to harvest for profit
剳	hook; sickle
剴	used in 剴切|剀切[kai3 qie4]
剴切	cogent; to the point; earnest; conscientious
創	to initiate; to create; to achieve (sth for the first time)
創下	to establish; to set (a new record)
創下高票房	to set a box office record
創世	the creation of the world
創世紀	Genesis (first book of the Bible)
創世記	Genesis (first book of the Bible)
創世論	creationism
創作	to create; to produce; to write; a creative work; a creation
創作力	originality
創作者	creator; author
創傷	wound; injury; trauma
創傷後壓力症候群	(Tw) post-traumatic stress disorder; PTSD
創傷後應激障礙	post-traumatic stress disorder; PTSD
創價學會	Soka Gakkai International
創優	to strive for excellence
創刊	to start publishing; to found a journal
創刊號	first issue
創利	to make a profit
創制	to formulate; to institute; to create
創匯	to earn foreign exchange
創口	wound; cut
創口貼	band-aid
創可貼	band-aid; sticking plaster
創始	to initiate; to found
創始人	creator; founder; initiator
創始者	creator; initiator
創客	maker (innovative enthusiast who builds objects using technology)
創巨痛深	(idiom) deeply distressed
創建	to found; to establish
創建者	founder; creator
創意	creative; creativity
創投	venture capital investment (abbr. for 創業投資|创业投资[chuang4 ye4 tou2 zi1])
創投基金	venture capital fund
創收	to generate revenue; to create extra income
創新	to bring forth new ideas; to blaze new trails; innovation
創新精神	creativity
創業	to begin an undertaking; to start an enterprise; entrepreneurship
創業投資	venture capital investment
創業精神	enterprising spirit; pioneering spirit
創業者	entrepreneur
創牌子	(of a company) to establish a brand name
創痕	scar (physical or psychological)
創痛	physical or emotional pain
創立	to establish; to set up; to found
創立人	founder
創立者	founder
創練	to form and train (a military unit)
創舉	pioneering work
創見	an original idea
創見性	original (idea, discovery etc)
創記錄	to set a record
創設	to establish; to set up; to create (suitable conditions etc)
創譯	transcreation (adaptation of a creative work for an audience of a different culture)
創議	to propose; proposal
創辦	to establish; to found
創辦人	founder (of an institution etc)
創辦者	founder; creator
創造	to create; to bring about; to produce
創造主	Creator (Christianity)
創造力	ingenuity; creativity
創造性	creativeness; creativity
創造者	creator
創造論	creationism (religion)
剷	to scrape the ground with a spade (to make it level or to remove weeds); to shovel
剷平	to level the ground (with a hoe, shovel etc); to raze (a building, forest etc)
剷除	to root out; to eradicate; to sweep away; to abolish
剸	slash
剹	to peel with a knife
剺	mark
剽	to rob; swift; nimble
剽悍	swift and fierce
剽竊	to plunder; to plagiarize
剿	to destroy; to extirpate
剿匪	to send armed forces to suppress
剿滅	to eliminate (by armed force)
剿說	to plagiarize
劀	(archaic) to scrape away decayed flesh or pus
劁	to neuter livestock
劂	used in 剞劂[ji1 jue2]
劃	to cut; to slash; to scratch (cut into the surface of sth)
劃一	uniform; to standardize
劃一不二	fixed; unalterable
劃下	to underline; to mark
劃位	(Tw) to divide up an area; to assign a spot; to allocate a seat
劃傷	to damage by scratching; to gash; to lacerate
劃價	to price (medical prescription)
劃分	to divide up; to partition; to differentiate
劃切	to slice; to dice
劃圓防守	to counter (a stroke in fencing)
劃定	to demarcate; to delimit
劃掉	to cross out; to cross off
劃撥	to assign; to allocate; to transfer (money to an account)
劃時代	epoch-marking
劃歸	to incorporate; to put under (external administration)
劃清	to make a clear distinction; to differentiate clearly
劃痕	a scratch
劃破	to cut open; to rip; to streak across (lightning, meteor etc)
劃線	to delineate; to draw a line; to underline
劃線板	ruler (used for drawing lines)
劃花	engraving (on porcelain etc)
劃轉	to transfer (funds, assets etc)
劃過	(of a meteor etc) to streak across (the sky)
劃重點	to highlight or underline an important point
劄	to prick with a needle
劇	theatrical work (play, opera, TV series etc)
劇作家	playwright
劇團	theatrical troupe
劇場	theater
劇增	dramatic increase
劇壇	the world of Chinese opera; theatrical circles
劇情	story line; plot; drama (genre)
劇本	script; screenplay; scenario; libretto
劇本殺	murder mystery game (role-playing game)
劇毒	highly toxic; extremely poisonous
劇烈	violent; acute; severe; fierce
劇照	photo taken during a theatrical production; a still (from a movie)
劇痛	acute pain; sharp pain; twinge
劇目	theatrical piece (play or opera); repertoire; list of plays or operas
劇社	theater company
劇終	The End (appearing at the end of a movie etc)
劇組	cast and crew; performers and production team
劇荒	(neologism, attested by 2016) TV drama drought; nothing good to watch
劇變	to change dramatically; radical change
劇透	plot leak; spoiler
劇院	theater
劇集	(serialized TV or Internet drama) show; series
劈	to hack; to chop; to split open
劈叉	the splits (move in dancing); to do the splits; Taiwan pr. [pi3 cha1]
劈啪	(onom.) for crack, slap, clap, clatter etc
劈情操	to have a friendly chat (Shanghai)
劈手	with a lightning move of the hand
劈掛拳	Piguaquan "Chop-Hanging Fist" (Chinese Martial Art)
劈柴	to chop firewood; to split logs
劈理	(mining) cleavage
劈空扳害	damaged by groundless slander (idiom)
劈腿	to do the splits (gymnastics)
劈臉	right in the face
劈裂	to split open; to cleave; to rend
劈開	to cleave; to split open; to spread open (fingers, legs)
劈離	split
劈面	right in the face
劈頭	straight away; right off the bat; right on the head; right in the face
劈頭蓋臉	lit. splitting the head and covering the face (idiom); fig. pelting (with rain etc)
劉	(classical) a type of battle-ax; to kill; to slaughter
劉伯溫	Liu Bowen (1311–1375), general under the first Ming emperor Zhu Yuanzhang 朱元璋[Zhu1 Yuan2 zhang1], with a reputation as a military genius, also known as Liu Ji 劉基|刘基[Liu2 Ji1]
劉備	Liu Bei (161-223), warlord at the end of the Han dynasty and founder of the Han kingdom of Shu 蜀漢|蜀汉 (c. 200-263), later the Shu Han dynasty
劉光第	Liu Guangdi (1859-1898), one of the Six Gentlemen Martyrs 戊戌六君子[Wu4 xu1 Liu4 jun1 zi5] of the unsuccessful reform movement of 1898
劉公島	Liugong island in the Yellow sea
劉厚總	Liu Houzong (1904-1949), originally Hunan guerilla leader, rewarded by Chiang Kaishek for killing Xiang Ying 項英|项英[Xiang4 Ying1] during the 1941 New Fourth Army incident 皖南事變|皖南事变[Wan3 nan2 Shi4 bian4]
劉向	Liu Xiang (77-6 BC), Han Dynasty scholar and author
劉基	Liu Ji or Liu Bowen 劉伯溫|刘伯温[Liu2 Bo2 wen1] (1311-1375), general under the first Ming emperor Zhu Yuanzhang 朱元璋[Zhu1 Yuan2 zhang1], with a reputation as a military genius
劉天華	Liu Tianhua (1895-1932), Chinese musician and composer
劉奭	Liu Shi, personal name of Han Emperor Yuandi 漢元帝|汉元帝[Han4 Yuan2 di4]
劉姥姥進大觀園	Granny Liu visits the Grand View gardens
劉安	Liu An (179-122 BC), King of Huainan under the Western Han, ordered the writing of the 淮南子[Huai2 nan2 zi5]
劉宋	Song of the Southern dynasties 南朝宋 (420-479), with capital at Nanjing
劉宋時代	Song of the Southern dynasties (420-479), with capital at Nanjing
劉家輝	Gordon Liu (1955-), Hong Kong action actor
劉少奇	Liu Shaoqi (1898-1969), Chinese communist leader, a martyr of the Cultural Revolution
劉師培	Liu Shipei (1884-1919), Chinese anarchist and revolutionary activist
劉德華	Andy Lau (1961-), Hong Kong Cantopop singer and actor
劉心武	Liu Xinwu (1942-), novelist
劉恆	Liu Heng, personal name of Han emperor Han Wendi 漢文帝|汉文帝
劉慈欣	Liu Cixin (1963-), Chinese science fiction writer
劉昫	Liu Xu (887-946), politician in Later Jin of the Five Dynasties 後晉|后晋[Hou4 Jin4], compiled History of Early Tang Dynasty 舊唐書|旧唐书[Jiu4 Tang2 shu1]
劉曉波	Liu Xiaobo (1955-2017), Beijing writer and human rights activist, organizer of petition Charter 2008 零八憲章|零八宪章[Ling2 ba1 Xian4 zhang1], Nobel Peace Prize laureate in 2010
劉松齡	Ferdinand Augustin Hallerstein (1703-1774), Slovenian Jesuit missionary, astronomer and mathematician, spent 35 years at Emperor Qianlong's court
劉毅	Liu Yi (-285), famous incorruptible official of Western Jin dynasty the Western Jin dynasty 西晉|西晋[Xi1 Jin4] (265-316)
劉洋	Liu Yang (1978-), China's first female astronaut in space (June 16, 2012)
劉海	bangs; fringe (hair)
劉涓子	Liu Juanzi, legendary alchemist and creator of magic potions
劉涓子鬼遺方	Liu Juanzi's medical recipes bequeathed by the ghost Huang Fugui 黃父鬼|黄父鬼
劉淵	Liu Yuan (c. 251–310), warlord at the end of the Western Jin dynasty 西晉|西晋[Xi1 Jin4], founder of Cheng Han of the Sixteen Kingdoms 成漢|成汉[Cheng2 Han4] (304–347)
劉熙	Liu Xi (late Han, c. 200 AD), possibly the author of 釋名|释名[Shi4 ming2]
劉禪	Liu Shan (207-271), son of Liu Bei, reigned as Shu Han emperor 233-263
劉禹錫	Liu Yuxi (772-842), Tang poet
劉義慶	Liu Yiqing (403-444), writer of South Song Dynasty, compiler and editor of A New Account of the Tales of the World 世說新語|世说新语[Shi4 shuo1 Xin1 yu3]
劉翔	Liu Xiang (1983-), Chinese gold-medal hurdler of the 2004 Olympic Games
劉表	Liu Biao (142-208), warlord
劉裕	Liu Yu, founder of Song of the Southern dynasties 劉宋|刘宋[Liu2 Song4], broke away from Eastern Jin in 420, reigned as Emperor Wu of Song 宋武帝[Song4 Wu3 di4]
劉貴今	Liu Guijin (1945–), Chinese diplomat, ambassador to South Africa 2001–2007
劉賓雁	Liu Binyan (1925-2005), journalist and novelist, condemned by Mao as rightist faction in 1957, subsequently dissident writer
劉邦	Liu Bang (256 or 247-195 BC), bandit leader who became first Han emperor Han Gaozu 漢高祖|汉高祖 (reigned 202-195 BC)
劉金寶	Liu Jinbao (1952-), CEO of the Bank of China (Hong Kong) 1997-2003, jailed after being convicted of embezzlement
劉雲山	Liu Yunshan (1947-), PRC politician, background in journalism in Inner Mongolia, head of the Central Propaganda Department 2002-2012
劉青雲	Lau Ching-Wan (1964-), Hong Kong actor
劉鶚	Liu E (1857-1909), late Qing novelist, author of 老殘遊記|老残游记[Lao3 Can2 You2 ji4]
劊	to amputate; to cut off; also pr. [kuai4]
劊子手	executioner; headsman; slaughterer
劌	cut; injure
劍	double-edged sword; classifier for blows of a sword
劍嘴鶥	(bird species of China) slender-billed scimitar babbler (Pomatorhinus superciliaris)
劍客	swordsman
劍尖	point; sharp end
劍川縣	Jianchuan, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
劍拔弩張	lit. with swords drawn and bows bent (idiom); fig. a state of mutual hostility
劍指	(fig.) to target; to set one's sights on (a goal, problem etc)
劍柄	sword hilt
劍標	(typography) dagger (†)
劍橋	Cambridge
劍橋大學	University of Cambridge
劍河縣	Jianhe, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
劍法	fencing; sword-play
劍眉星目	(idiom) straight, thick, upward-inclined eyebrows and eyes that are bright and full of spirit; striking, handsome features; dashing, heroic appearance
劍術	swordsmanship
劍走偏鋒	the sword moves with side stroke (modern idiom)
劍走蜻蛉	the sword moves like a dragon-fly (modern idiom)
劍身	sword blade
劍道	kendō (sports)
劍閣縣	Jiange, a county in Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
劍魚	swordfish
劍魚座	Dorado (constellation)
劍鴴	(bird species of China) common ringed plover (Charadrius hiaticula)
劍麻	sisal hemp
劍齒虎	saber-toothed tiger
劍龍	stegosaurus
劏	(Cantonese) to butcher; to cut open; to chop up (used in 劏房|㓥房[tang1 fang2])
劏房	(HK) subdivided flat (apartment); partitioned apartment; tiny residential unit created by dividing a larger flat
劐	(coll.) to slit with a knife; (variant of 耠[huo1]) hoe
劐弄	(dialect) to mix; to stir; to make trouble
劑	(bound form) a compound made by mixing ingredients (esp. a medicinal or chemical product)
劑型	delivery mechanism of a medicine (e.g. pill, powder etc)
劑子	piece of dough cut to the right size (for making jiaozi etc)
劑次	instance of administering a dose of vaccine; number of vaccinations
劑量	dosage; prescribed dose of medicine
劑量當量	dose equivalent
劓	cut off the nose
劖	bore; cut; polish
劘	whittle
劙	a divide, to partition
力	power; force; strength
力不勝任	not to be up to the task (idiom); incompetent
力不從心	(idiom) to lack the ability to do what one would wish
力主	advocate strongly
力作	to put effort into (work, farming, writing etc); a masterpiece
力促	to urge; to press (for action)
力保	to seek to protect; to ensure; to maintain
力保健	Lipovitan (energy drink)
力偶	moment of forces (mechanics)
力傳遞	mechanical transmission
力克	to prevail with difficulty
力勸	to strongly urge
力圖	to try hard to; to strive to
力場	force field (physics)
力士	strong man; sumo wrestler
力大無比	having matchless strength
力大無窮	extraordinary strength; super strong; strong as an ox
力嬌酒	(loanword) liqueur
力學	(physics) mechanics; (literary) to study hard
力學傳遞	mechanical transmission
力寶	Lippo (Group) (Indonesian conglomerate)
力工	manual laborer; unskilled laborer
力帆	Lifan Group (auto manufacturer in Chongqing)
力度	strength; vigor; efforts
力征	by force; to conquer by force of arms; power
力心	fulcrum; center of force
力戒	to try everything to avoid; to guard against
力戰	to fight with all one's might
力所不及	beyond one's power (to do sth)
力所能及	as far as one's capabilities extend (idiom); to the best of one's ability
力拓	Rio Tinto (UK-Australian mining corporation)
力拚	(Tw) to put one's efforts into (sth); to work at (sth)
力挫	to win as a result of tenacious effort; to fight off tough competition
力挺	to strongly support; to firmly back
力挽狂瀾	to pull strongly against a crazy tide (idiom); fig. to try hard to save a desperate crisis
力排眾議	to stand one's ground against the opinion of the masses (idiom)
力攻	to assault; to attack in force
力有未逮	beyond one's reach or power (to do sth)
力比多	(loanword) libido
力氣	physical strength
力求	to make every effort to; striving to do one's best
力波	Reeb, a beer brand
力爭	to work hard for; to do all one can; to contend strongly
力爭上游	to strive for mastery (idiom); aiming for the best result
力畜	draft animal; beast of burden
力盡神危	(idiom) physically and mentally exhausted
力矩	torque
力竭	exhausted; worn out
力臂	lever arm (i.e. perpendicular distance from the fulcrum to the line of force)
力薦	to strongly recommend
力行	to practice diligently; to act energetically
力道	strength; power; efficacy
力量	power; force; strength
力量均衡	balance of power
力錢	payment to a porter
力阻	to block; to prevent by force
功	meritorious deed or service; achievement; result
功不可沒	one's contributions cannot go unnoticed (idiom)
功令	(historical) official decree; statute
功利	utility
功利主義	utilitarianism
功到自然成	effort will undoubtedly lead to success (idiom)
功力	merit; efficacy; competence
功勞	contribution; meritorious service; credit
功勞簿	record of achievements; (fig.) laurels (as sth one rests on)
功勳	meritorious service; distinguished contribution; achievement of great merit
功名	scholarly honor (in imperial exams); rank; achievement
功名利祿	position and wealth (idiom); rank, fame and fortune
功夫	skill; art; kung fu
功夫流感	Chinese translation of "kung flu", a term used by US President Trump in 2020 to refer to COVID-19 as a "Chinese" disease
功夫片	kung fu movie
功夫病毒	kung flu
功夫茶	very concentrated type of tea drunk in Chaozhou, Fujian and Taiwan
功完行滿	to fully achieve one's ambitions (idiom)
功底	training in the basic skills; knowledge of the fundamentals
功德	achievements and virtue
功德圓滿	virtuous achievements come to their successful conclusion (idiom)
功德無量	no end of virtuous achievements (idiom); boundless beneficence
功成不居	not to claim personal credit for achievement (idiom)
功成名就	to win success and recognition (idiom)
功放	power amplifier (abbr. for 功率放大器[gong1 lu : 4 fang4 da4 qi4])
功效	efficacy
功敗垂成	to fail within sight of success (idiom); last-minute failure
功業	achievement; outstanding work; glorious deed
功烈	achievement
功率	power (rate of doing work, measured in watts)
功用	function
功績	feat; contribution; merits and achievements
功罪	achievements and crimes
功耗	electric consumption; power wastage
功能	function; capability
功能團	(chemistry) functional group
功能性	functionality
功能性磁共振成像	functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)
功能模塊	functional module
功能機	feature phone
功能磁共振成像術	functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)
功能群	(ecology) functional group
功能表	menu (software)
功能詞	function word
功能集	function library
功能飲料	functional beverage
功臣	meritorious official; person who renders exceptional service; hero
功莫大焉	no greater contribution has been made than this (idiom)
功虧一簣	lit. to ruin the enterprise for the sake of one basketful
功課	homework; assignment; task
功過	merits and demerits; contributions and errors
功高不賞	high merit that one can never repay (idiom); invaluable achievements
功高望重	high merit and worthy prospects (idiom)
功高蓋主	lit. one's accomplishments overshadow the authority of the sovereign (idiom)
加	Canada (abbr. for 加拿大[Jia1 na2 da4]); surname Jia
加上	plus; to put in; to add
加之	moreover; in addition to that
加人一等	a cut above; top quality
加以	(formal) to apply; to carry out; to take action to (do sth) (used before a disyllabic verb, indicating that the action is directed at sth previously mentioned, e.g. 加以說明|加以说明[jia1 yi3 shuo1 ming2]); to apply (restrictions etc); to give (support, consideration etc)
加來海峽	Strait of Calais in the English channel; Strait of Dover
加侖	(loanword) gallon
加俸	to raise one's pay
加俾額爾	Gabriel (biblical name)
加倉	(finance) to increase one's position
加倍	to double; to redouble
加值	to recharge (money onto a card) (Tw)
加值型網路	value added network; VAN
加價	to increase a price
加入	to become a member; to join; to mix into
加冕	to crown; coronation
加冠	(in former times) coming-of-age ceremony at 20 years
加冰	(of a drink) iced; on the rocks
加分	bonus point; extra credit; to award bonus points; to earn extra points
加利利	Galilee (in biblical Palestine)
加利福尼亞	California
加利福尼亞大學	University of California
加利福尼亞大學洛杉磯分校	UCLA
加利福尼亞州	California
加利福尼亞理工學院	California Institute of Technology (Caltech)
加利肋亞	Galilee (in biblical Palestine)
加利西亞	Galicia, province and former kingdom of northwest Spain
加劇	to intensify
加加林	Yuri Gagarin (1934-1968), Russian cosmonaut, first human in space
加勁	to increase efforts; to make extra efforts
加勒比	Caribbean
加勒比國家聯盟	Association of Caribbean States
加勒比海	Caribbean Sea
加吉魚	porgy (Pagrosomus major)
加和	to calculate the total; sum; total
加哩	(loanword) curry
加固	to reinforce (a structure); to strengthen
加國	Canada
加塞兒	to push into a line out of turn; to cut in line; to jump the queue
加壓	to pressurize; to pile on pressure
加壓釜	pressure chamber; pressurized cauldron
加多寶	JDB (Chinese beverage company)
加大	to increase (e.g. one's effort)
加大力度	to try harder; to redouble one's efforts
加大努力	to try harder; to redouble one's efforts
加大油門	to accelerate; to step on the gas
加央	Kangar city, capital of Perlis state 玻璃市[Bo1 li2 shi4], Malaysia
加委	(of a government authority) to appoint (sb recommended by a subsidiary unit or a non-government organization)
加官	to be promoted; additional government post
加官晉爵	to confer a title an official position
加官晉級	to receive a promotion; to rise in rank
加官進位	promotion in official post and salary raise (idiom)
加官進爵	promotion to the nobility (idiom)
加官進祿	promotion in official post and salary raise (idiom)
加害	to injure
加密	to encrypt; encryption; to protect with a password
加密套接字協議層	Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) (computing)
加密貨幣	cryptocurrency
加寬	widen
加封	to seal up (a door with a paper seal, or a document)
加封官階	to confer additional titles on a nobleman
加州	California
加州大學	University of California (abbr. for 加利福尼亞大學|加利福尼亚大学[Jia1 li4 fu2 ni2 ya4 Da4 xue2])
加州理工學院	California Institute of Technology (Caltech)
加工	to process; processing; working (of machinery)
加工廠	processing plant
加工成本	processing cost
加工貿易	process trade; trade involving assembly
加強	to reinforce; to strengthen; to enhance
加強針	(vaccine) booster shot
加彭	Gabon (Tw)
加徵	to levy an additional (tax or tariff)
加德士	Caltex (petroleum brand name)
加德滿都	Kathmandu, capital of Nepal
加德納	Gardner (name)
加德西	Gardasil (HPV vaccine)
加快	to accelerate; to speed up; to hasten
加急	to expedite; (of a delivery etc) expedited; express
加息	(finance) to raise interest rates
加意	paying special care; with particular attention
加拉加斯	Caracas, capital of Venezuela
加拉太書	Epistle of St Paul to the Galatians
加拉巴哥斯	Galapagos
加拉巴哥斯群島	Galapagos Islands
加拉帕戈斯群島	Galapagos Islands
加拉罕	Leo Karakhan (1889-1937), Soviet ambassador to China 1921-26, executed in Stalin's 1937 purge
加拿大	Canada
加拿大太平洋鐵路	Canadian Pacific Railway
加拿大皇家	HMCS (Her Majesty's Canadian Ship); prefix for Canadian Navy Vessels
加拿大皇家海軍	Royal Canadian Navy
加拿大雁	(bird species of China) cackling goose (Branta hutchinsii)
加持	(Buddhism) (from Sanskrit "adhiṣṭhāna") blessings
加數	addend; summand
加料	to feed in; to load (raw material, supplies, fuel etc); to supply
加料鋼琴	prepared piano
加時	(sports) overtime; extra time; play-off
加時賽	(sports) overtime; extra time; play-off
加查縣	Gyaca, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
加格達奇區	Jiagedaqi, a district of Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
加權	(math.) to weight; weighting; weighted (average, index etc)
加權平均	weighted average
加氟	to fluoridate (a public water supply)
加氣	to aerate; to ventilate
加氫油	hydrogenated oil
加沃特	(loanword) gavotte, French dance popular in 18th century
加沙	Gaza (territory adjacent to Israel and Egypt)
加沙地帶	Gaza Strip
加油	to add oil; to top up with gas; to refuel
加油工	gas station attendant
加油槍	fuel nozzle
加油添醋	to add interest (to a story); to sex up
加油站	gas station
加法	addition
加注	to increase a bet; to raise (in poker); to raise the stakes
加泰羅尼亞	Catalonia
加派	to reinforce; to dispatch troops
加深	to deepen
加添	to add; to augment; to increase
加減乘除	(idiom) addition, subtraction, multiplication and division: the four basic operations of arithmetic
加減號	plus-minus sign (±); plus and minus signs (+ and -)
加溫	to heat; to add warmth; to raise temperature
加滿	to top up; to fill to the brim
加演	to put on extra shows; to extend the run (of a show)
加濕器	humidifier
加熱	to heat
加爾各答	Calcutta (India)
加爾文	Calvin (1509-1564), French protestant reformer
加特林	Gatling (name)
加特林機槍	Gatling gun
加班	to work overtime
加班費	overtime pay
加甜	sweeten
加百列	Gabriel (name); Archangel Gabriel of the Annunciation
加的夫	Cardiff
加的斯	Cádiz, Spain
加盟	(of a nation) to join an alliance; (of an athlete) to join a sports team; (of an entrepreneur) to join a franchise; (of an actor) to join the cast of a movie; (of a recording artist) to sign with a label
加盟店	franchise store
加碼	to ratchet up; to raise (expectations etc)
加粗	to make text bold
加納	Ghana
加索爾	Gasol (name)
加緊	to intensify; to speed up; to step up
加總	to aggregate; to calculate the total; aggregate; total
加繆	Albert Camus (1913-1960), French-Algerian philosopher, author, and journalist
加羅林群島	Caroline Islands
加航	Air Canada
加茲尼	Ghazni (Afghan province)
加茲尼省	Ghazni or Ghaznah province of Afghanistan
加菲貓	Garfield (the comic-strip cat)
加蓋	to seal (with an official stamp); to stamp; (fig.) to ratify
加蓬	Gabon
加薪	to raise salary
加藤	Katō (Japanese surname)
加號	(math.) plus sign (+)
加西亞	Garcia (person name)
加註	to add a note; to annotate
加試	to add material to an exam; supplementary exam
加護	intensive care (in hospital)
加護病房	(Tw) intensive care unit (ICU)
加購	to buy (sth extra); to make an additional purchase
加賽	(sports) to have an additional tie-breaking match or period of play; to have a playoff
加足馬力	to go at full throttle; (fig.) to go all out; to kick into high gear
加車	extra bus or train
加載	to load (cargo); (computing) to load (content)
加辣	to add spice; to make it spicy
加農	(loanword) cannon
加農炮	(loanword) cannon
加速	to accelerate; to speed up; to expedite
加速器	accelerator (computing); particle accelerator
加速度	acceleration
加速踏板	accelerator pedal
加進	to add; to mix in; to incorporate
加達里	Guattari (philosopher)
加那利群島	Canary Islands
加里	potassium (loanword)
加里寧格勒	Kaliningrad, town on Baltic now in Russian republic
加里寧格勒州	Kaliningrad Oblast
加里曼丹	Kalimantan (Indonesian part of the island of Borneo)
加里曼丹島	Kalimantan island (Indonesian name for Borneo island)
加里波第	Guiseppe Garibaldi (1807-1882), Italian military commander and politician
加里肋亞	Galilee
加里肋亞海	Sea of Galilee
加重	to make heavier; to emphasize
加重語氣	to give emphasis; with emphasis
加錢	to pay extra; to pay more
加長	to lengthen
加餐	to have an extra meal; snack
加麻大	(slang) Canada
加點	to work extra hours; to do overtime
劣	inferior
劣勢	inferior; disadvantaged
劣幣驅逐良幣	bad money drives out good money (economics)
劣汰	elimination of the weak (cf. 優勝劣汰|优胜劣汰[you1 sheng4 lie4 tai4])
劣等	poor-quality; inferior
劣紳	evil gentry; wicked landlord
劣質	shoddy; of poor quality
劣跡	bad record (esp. of a public official); unsavory track record
劣跡斑斑	notorious for one's misdeeds
劦	to cooperate; combined labor
助	to help; to assist
助一臂之力	to lend a helping hand (idiom)
助人	to help others
助人為快樂之本	pleasure from helping others
助人為樂	pleasure from helping others (idiom)
助劑	additive; reagent
助力	to help; to aid; assistance
助力車	bicycle or tricycle equipped with a small motor (electric or fuel); (in modern use) electric bicycle; low-powered e-scooter
助動詞	auxiliary verb; modal verb
助動車	low-powered motorized scooter or bike
助威	to cheer for; to encourage; to boost the morale of
助學	to support a student's education (often financially)
助學貸款	student loan
助學金	student grant; education grant; scholarship
助戰	to support (in battle)
助手	assistant; helper
助手席	front passenger seat (in a car)
助推	(aerospace) to boost; to provide propulsion assistance
助推器	(rocketry) booster
助推火箭	booster rocket
助攻	(military) to mount a secondary attack
助教	teaching assistant
助殘	to help people with disabilities
助焊劑	flux (metallurgy)
助熔劑	flux
助理	assistant
助產	to help a mother give birth
助產士	midwife
助益	benefit; help
助眠	to promote sleep
助紂為虐	lit. helping tyrant Zhou 商紂王|商纣王[Shang1 Zhou4 wang2] in his oppression (idiom)
助聽器	hearing aid
助興	to add to the fun; to liven things up
助記方法	mnemonic method
助記符	mnemonic symbol; mnemonic code
助詞	(linguistics) auxiliary word; function word; particle
助跑	to run up (pole vault, javelin, bowling etc); approach; run-up
助農	to help farmers (promote or sell their produce); to support the agricultural sector (through an economic policy etc)
助選	to assist in a candidate's election campaign (Tw)
助長	to encourage; to foster; to foment
助陣	to cheer; to root for
努	to exert; to strive
努克	Nuuk, capital of Greenland
努出	to extend; to push out (hands as a gesture)
努力	to make an effort; to try hard; to strive; hard-working; conscientious
努勁兒	to extend; to put forth
努嘴	to pout; to stick out one's lips
努庫阿洛法	Nuku'alofa (capital of Tonga)
努比亞	Nubia
努爾哈赤	Nurhaci (1559-1626), founder and first Khan of the Manchu Later Jin dynasty 後金|后金[Hou4 Jin1] (from 1616)
努瓜婁發	Nuku'alofa, capital of Tonga (Tw)
努瓦克肖特	Nouakchott, capital of Mauritania
努納武特	Nunavut territory, Canada
努美阿	Nouméa, capital of New Caledonia
劫	to rob; to plunder; to seize by force
劫匪	bandit; robber
劫囚	to break a prisoner out of jail
劫奪	to seize by force; to abduct
劫富濟貧	(idiom) to rob the rich to help the poor
劫寨	to seize a stronghold; to surprise the enemy in his camp
劫後餘生	(idiom) to be a survivor of a calamity
劫持	to kidnap; to hijack; to abduct
劫持者	hijacker; kidnapper
劫掠	to loot; to plunder
劫數	predestined fate (Buddhism)
劫數難逃	Destiny is inexorable, there is no fleeing it (idiom). Your doom is at hand.
劫機	hijacking; air piracy
劫殺	to rob and kill
劫波	kalpa (loanword) (Hinduism)
劫洗	to loot; plunder
劫營	to seize a camp; to surprise the enemy in bed
劫獄	to break into jail; to forcibly release prisoners
劫色	to sexually assault
劫車	to carjack; carjacking
劫道	to kidnap; to hijack
劫難	calamity
劫餘	remnants after a disaster; aftermath
劬	labor
劭	stimulate to effort
劮	leisurely
劻	zealous
劼	careful; diligent; firm
劾	to impeach
勁	strength; energy; enthusiasm
勁力	physical strength; power
勁卒	elite soldiers; a crack force
勁吹	(of wind) to blow strongly
勁射	power shot (e.g. in soccer)
勁峭	(of wind) strong and bitterly cold
勁度係數	coefficient of restitution (in Hooke's law)
勁拔	tall and straight
勁挺	strong
勁敵	formidable opponent
勁旅	strong contingent; elite squad
勁烈	violent
勁爆	(coll.) awesome; stunning; electrifying
勁直	strong and upright
勁舞	to dance energetically; vigorous modern style of dance
勁草	tough upright grass
勁頭	enthusiasm; zeal; vigor
勁風	strong wind; gale
勃	flourishing; prosperous; suddenly
勃列日涅夫	Leonid Brezhnev (1906-1982), Soviet statesman, General Secretary of the Communist Party of the USSR 1966-1982
勃利縣	Boli, a county in Qitaihe City 七臺河市|七台河市[Qi1 tai2 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
勃勃	thriving; vigorous; exuberant
勃固	Pegu city in south Myanmar (Burma)
勃固山脈	Pegu Yoma (mountain range) of south central Myanmar (Burma), separating Irrawaddy and Sittang basins
勃固河	Pegu River of south central Myanmar (Burma)
勃拉姆斯	Brahms (name); Johannes Brahms (1833-1897), German romantic composer
勃朗寧	Browning, US firearm brand
勃朗峰	Mont Blanc (between Italy and France)
勃海	Han dynasty province around the Bohai sea; renamed 渤海 after the Han
勃然	suddenly; abruptly; agitatedly
勃然大怒	(idiom) to fly into a rage; to see red
勃然變色	to suddenly change color showing displeasure, bewilderment etc
勃發	to sprout up; to flourish; (of war etc) to break out; rapid growth
勃興	to rise suddenly; to grow vigorously
勃艮第	Burgundy (Bourgogne), a medieval kingdom and later a powerful duchy, now a region of France
勃蘭登堡	Brandenburg
勃起	erection; to have an erection
勃起功能障礙	erectile dysfunction (ED)
勇	brave
勇力	courage and strength
勇士	a warrior; a brave person
勇往直前	to advance bravely
勇悍	brave
勇敢	brave; courageous
勇於	to dare to; to be brave enough to
勇武	brave
勇氣	courage
勇氣可嘉	to deserve praise for one's courage (idiom)
勇決	decisive; brave
勇猛	bold and powerful; brave and fierce
勇略	brave and cunning
勉	to exhort; to make an effort
勉力	to strive; to make an effort; to exert oneself
勉力而為	to try one's best to do sth (idiom)
勉勉強強	to achieve with difficulty; only just up to the task; barely adequate
勉勵	to encourage
勉強	to do with difficulty; to force sb to do sth; reluctant
勉為其難	to tackle a difficult job (idiom); to do sth reluctantly
勉縣	Mian County or Mianxian, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
勍	violent; strong
勐	meng (old administrative division in Dai areas of Yunnan)
勐海縣	Menghai, a county in Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture 西雙版納傣族自治州|西双版纳傣族自治州[Xi1 shuang1 ban3 na4 Dai3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
勐臘縣	Mengla, a county in Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture 西雙版納傣族自治州|西双版纳傣族自治州[Xi1 shuang1 ban3 na4 Dai3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
勒	(literary) bridle; halter; headstall; to rein in; to compel; to force
勒令	to order; to force
勒克斯	lux (unit of illuminance) (loanword)
勒勒車	wagon (yoked to beast of burden)
勒哈費爾	Le Havre (French town)
勒威耶	Urbain Le Verrier (1811-1877), French mathematician and astronomer who predicted the position of Neptune
勒戒	to force sb to give up (a drug); to enforce abstinence
勒斃	to strangle or throttle to death
勒斯波斯	Lesbos (Greek island in Aegean)
勒斯波斯島	Lesbos (Greek island in Aegean)
勒死	to strangle
勒殺	to strangle
勒索	to blackmail; to extort
勒索罪	blackmail
勒索軟件	ransomware (computing)
勒維夫	Lviv (Lvov), town in western Ukraine
勒維納斯	Levinas (philosopher)
勒緊	to tighten
勒緊褲帶	to tighten one's belt; to live more frugally
勒脖子	to throttle; to strangle
勒逼	to coerce; to force; to press sb into doing sth
勒馬	to guide a horse with the reins; to rein in a horse
勒龐	Jean-Marie Le Pen (1928-), French Front National extreme right-wing politician
動	(of sth) to move; to set in movement; to displace
動L	flowing; flexible; lively (Internet slang)
動不動	(typically followed by 就[jiu4]) apt to (lose one's temper, catch a cold etc)
動不動就生氣	to be quick to take offense; to have a short fuse
動亂	turmoil; upheaval; unrest
動人	touching; moving
動人心魄	(idiom) breathtaking; deeply affecting
動作	movement; motion; action; to act; to move
動作片	action movie
動保	animal protection (abbr. for 動物保護|动物保护[dong4 wu4 bao3 hu4])
動力	motive power; (fig.) motivation; impetus
動力反應堆	power reactor
動力學	dynamics (math.); kinetics
動力系統	propulsion system; (math.) dynamical system
動口	to use one's mouth (to say sth)
動名詞	gerund
動向	trend; tendency
動員	to mobilize; mobilization
動員令	mobilization order
動問	may I ask
動嘴	to talk
動嘴皮	to move one's lips; to wag one's tongue
動因	motivation; moving force; underlying force
動圖	(computing) dynamic image
動土	to break ground (prior to building sth); to start building
動容	to be emotionally moved
動工	to start (a building project)
動平衡	dynamic equilibrium; dynamic balancing
動彈	to budge
動彈不得	to be unable to move a single step
動心	to be moved; to be tempted
動怒	to get angry
動情	to get excited; passionate; aroused to passion
動情期	estrus; the rutting season; on heat
動情激素	estrogen
動情素	estrogen
動感	sense of movement (often in a static work of art); dynamic; vivid
動感單車	spin class; indoor cycling class (a type of group fitness class)
動態	movement; motion; development
動態助詞	aspect particle, such as 著|着[zhe5], 了[le5], 過|过[guo4]
動態圖形	animated graphics; animation
動態存儲器	dynamic memory
動態影像	video
動態更新	dynamic update (Internet)
動態清零	zero-COVID (policy)
動態網頁	dynamic webpage
動態鏈接庫	dynamic-link library (DLL); shared library (computing)
動態雕塑	(fine arts) a mobile
動手	to set about (a task); to raise a hand to hit sb
動手動腳	to come to blows; to paw; to grope
動手腳	(coll.) to tamper with; to mess around with
動手術	(of a surgeon) to operate (on sb); (of a patient) to have an operation
動搖	to sway; to waver; to rock
動效	animation effect
動植物	plants and animals; flora and fauna
動機	motive; motivation
動武	to use force; to come to blows
動毫毛	to lay a finger on sb; to harm sb in the slightest way
動氣	to get angry
動漫	cartoons and comics; anime and manga; cartoon (animated movie)
動物	animal
動物分類	classification of animals
動物園	zoo
動物學	zoological; zoology
動物性	animacy
動物性飼料	feed made of animal products
動物毒素	zootoxin
動物油	animal fat
動物澱粉	glycogen
動物界	animal kingdom
動物莊園	Animal Farm (1945), novel and famous satire on communist revolution by George Orwell 喬治·奧威爾|乔治·奥威尔[Qiao2 zhi4 · Ao4 wei1 er3]
動物農場	Animal Farm (1945), novel and famous satire on communist revolution by George Orwell 喬治·奧威爾|乔治·奥威尔[Qiao2 zhi4 · Ao4 wei1 er3]
動產	movable property; personal property
動用	to utilize; to put sth to use
動畫	animation; cartoon
動畫片	animated film
動真格	to get serious about sth; to pull no punches
動筆	to put pen to paper; to start writing or painting
動粗	to use violence (against sb); to strong-arm sb; to manhandle
動線	path taken by people moving through a space; flowline (in architecture, interior design, urban planning etc)
動聽	pleasant to listen to
動肝火	to fly into a rage; to lose one's temper
動能	kinetic energy
動能車	car with a new type of propulsion system (hybrid, hydrogen-powered etc)
動脈	artery
動脈瘤	aneurysm
動脈硬化	hardening of the arteries; arteriosclerosis
動脈粥樣硬化	atherosclerosis
動腦	to use one's brain
動腦筋	to use one's brains; to think
動臥	D-class (high-speed) sleeper train (D stands for Dongche 動車|动车[dong4 che1]) (abbr. for 臥鋪動車組列車|卧铺动车组列车[wo4 pu4 dong4 che1 zu3 lie4 che1])
動蕩	unrest (social or political); turmoil; upheaval
動見觀瞻	to be watched closely (idiom)
動覺	kinesthesia
動詞	verb
動詞重疊	verb reduplication, used to soften tone or indicate a short action (e.g. 試一試|试一试[shi4 yi1 shi4] or 看看[kan4 kan5])
動議	motion; proposal
動賓式	verb-object construction
動賬	(of a bank account) to be affected by a transaction
動身	to go on a journey; to leave
動車	(PRC) (D- or C-class) high-speed train; power car
動輒	easily; readily; frequently
動輒得咎	faulted at every turn (idiom); can't get anything right
動量	momentum
動量詞	verbal classifier (in Chinese grammar)
動靜	(detectable) movement; (sign of) activity; movement and stillness
動魄	shocking; shattering
動點	moving point
勖	exhort; stimulate
勗	exhort; stimulate
勘	to investigate; to survey; to collate
勘定	to demarcate; to survey and determine
勘察	to reconnoiter; to explore; to survey
勘察加	Kamchatka (far eastern province of Russia)
勘察加半島	Kamchatka Peninsula, far-eastern Russia
勘探	to explore; to survey; to prospect (for oil etc)
勘正	to proofread and correct
勘測	to investigate; to survey
勘界	boundary survey
勘誤	to correct printing errors
勘誤表	corrigenda
勘驗	to investigate; examination
務	affair; business; matter
務實	to deal with concrete matters; pragmatic
務川仡佬族苗族自治縣	Wuchuan Gelao and Miao Autonomous County, in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
務工	to work as a laborer
務必	must; to need to; to be sure to
務期	it is essential to (complete a project on time, be thorough etc)
務虛	to discuss matters of principle (as opposed to concrete issues)
務請	please (formal)
務農	farming; to work the land
勛章	medal; decoration
勝	victory; success; to beat
勝不驕，敗不餒	no arrogance in victory, no despair in defeat
勝之不武	(fig.) to fight a one-sided battle
勝仗	victory; victorious battle
勝任	qualified; competent (professionally); to be up to a task
勝任能力	competency
勝似	to surpass; better than; superior to
勝出	to come out on top; to win (in an election, contest etc); success
勝利	victory
勝利在望	victory is in sight
勝利日	Victory Day
勝利者	victor; winner
勝地	well-known scenic spot
勝敗	victory or defeat; result
勝景	wonderful scenery
勝率	(sports) win rate; winning percentage; probability of winning
勝算	odds of success; stratagem that ensures success; to be sure of success
勝者	winner
勝者王侯敗者寇	the winners become princes and marquises; the losers are vilified as bandits (idiom)
勝訴	to win a court case
勝負	victory or defeat; the outcome of a battle
勝負慾	desire to win; competitive drive
勝過	to excel; to surpass
勝選	to win an election
勞	(bound form) to toil; labor; (bound form) laborer
勞什子	(dialect) nuisance; pain
勞作	work; manual labor
勞倦	exhausted; worn out
勞倫斯	Lawrence (person name)
勞傷	disorder of internal organs caused by overexertion
勞力	labor; able-bodied worker; laborer
勞力士	Rolex (Swiss wristwatch brand)
勞動	work; toil; physical labor
勞動人民	working people
勞動保險	labor insurance
勞動力	labor force; manpower
勞動合同	labor contract
勞動報	Trud (Russian newspaper)
勞動改造	reeducation through labor; laogai (prison camp)
勞動教養	reeducation through labor
勞動新聞	Rodong Sinmun (Workers' news), the official newspaper of the North Korean WPK's Central Committee
勞動模範	model worker
勞動營	labor camp; prison camp with hard labor
勞動節	International Labor Day (May Day)
勞動者	worker; laborer
勞動能力	ability to work
勞務	service (work done for money); services (as in "goods and services")
勞務交換	labor exchanges
勞務人員	laborer; service worker (typically employed on a contractual or temporary basis)
勞務合同	service contract
勞務市場	labor market
勞務費	service charge; service fee
勞埃德	Lloyd (name); Lloyd's (London-based insurance group)
勞委會	labor committee; abbr. for 勞動委員會|劳动委员会
勞工	labor; laborer
勞師動眾	(idiom) to go to a great deal of trouble; to mobilize considerable manpower and resources (often unnecessarily)
勞役	forced labor; corvée (labor required of a serf); animal labor
勞心	to work with one's brains; to rack one's brains; to worry
勞心勞力	to tax one's mind and body; demanding (work); dedicated (worker)
勞心苦思	to rack one's brains; to think hard
勞拉西泮	lorazepam
勞損	strain (medicine)
勞改	abbr. for 勞動改造|劳动改造[lao2 dong4 gai3 zao4]; reform through labor
勞改營	correctional labor camp
勞教	reeducation through labor
勞教所	correctional institution; labor camp
勞斯萊斯	Rolls-Royce
勞方	labor (as opposed to capital or management); the workers
勞模	model worker
勞民傷財	(idiom) to waste both manpower and resources
勞煩	to inconvenience; to trouble (sb with a request)
勞燕分飛	the shrike and the swallow fly in different directions (idiom)
勞碌	to work hard; to toil
勞神	to be a tax on (one's mind); to bother; to trouble
勞累	tired; exhausted; worn out
勞而無功	to work hard while accomplishing little; to toil to no avail
勞苦	to toil; hard work
勞資	labor and capital; workers and capitalists
勞資關係	industrial relations; relations between labor and capital
勞逸	work and rest
勞逸結合	to strike a balance between work and rest (idiom)
勞雇	labor and employer
勞雇關係	relations between labor and employer; industrial relations
勞頓	(literary) fatigued; wearied
勞駕	excuse me
募	to canvass for contributions; to collect; to raise; to recruit; to enlist
募化	(of a Buddhist monk or Taoist priest) to collect alms
募捐	to solicit contributions; to collect donations
募款	to raise money; donated money
募緣	(of a monk) to beg for food
募資	to raise capital
募集	to raise; to collect
勠	(bound form) to join (forces)
勠力	(literary) to join forces; to exert every effort
勢	power; influence; potential
勢不兩立	the two cannot exist together (idiom); irreconcilable differences
勢不可當	impossible to resist (idiom); an irresistible force
勢利	snobbish
勢利小人	snob
勢利眼	snobbish; a snob
勢力	power; influence; a force (military, political etc)
勢單力薄	(idiom) lacking strength and support
勢在必得	to be determined to win (idiom)
勢在必行	circumstances require action (idiom); absolutely necessary; imperative
勢均力敵	(idiom) evenly matched
勢如破竹	like a hot knife through butter (idiom); with irresistible force
勢子	gesture; posture
勢必	to be bound to; undoubtedly will
勢態	situation; state
勢成騎虎	if you ride a tiger, it's hard to get off (idiom); fig. impossible to stop halfway
勢族	influential family; powerful clan
勢能	(physics) potential energy
勢要	influential figure; powerful person
勢阱	potential well (physics)
勢降	potential drop (elec.)
勢頭	power; momentum; tendency
勣	merit; accomplishment (variant of 績|绩[ji4])
勤	diligent; industrious; hardworking; frequent; regular; constant
勤儉	hardworking and frugal
勤儉務實	hardworking, thrifty and pragmatic
勤儉建國	to build up the country through thrift and hard work
勤儉持家	hardworking and thrifty in running one's household
勤儉樸實	hardworking, thrifty and unpretentious
勤儉樸素	hardworking, thrifty and unpretentious
勤儉節約	(idiom) diligent and thrifty
勤則不匱	If one is industrious, one will not be in want. (idiom)
勤力	hardworking; diligent
勤勉	diligence; diligent; industrious
勤務	service; duties; an orderly (military)
勤務兵	army orderly
勤務員	odd job man; army orderly
勤勞	hardworking; industrious; diligent
勤勞致富	to get rich through hard work
勤勤	attentive; solicitous; earnest
勤勤懇懇	industrious and conscientious; assiduous
勤奮	hardworking; diligent
勤學苦練	to study diligently; to train assiduously
勤密	often; frequently
勤工儉學	to work part-time while studying; work-study program
勤快	diligent; hardworking
勤懇	diligent and attentive; assiduous; sincere
勤政	to govern diligently; diligent governance
勤樸	simple and industrious; hardworking and frugal
勤王	to serve the king diligently; to save the country in times of danger
勤能補拙	(idiom) hard work can make up for lack of natural talent
勤苦	hardworking; assiduous
勤謹	diligent and painstaking
勤雜	odd jobs; servant or army orderly doing odd jobs
勩	(literary) toilsome; laborious; (of an edge etc) worn out
勯	exhausted
勰	harmonious
勱	put forth effort
勳	(bound form) meritorious accomplishment
勳業	(literary) distinguished service and achievement
勳爵	Lord (UK hereditary nobility); UK life peer
勳績	meritorious service; distinguished achievement
勵	to encourage; to urge
勵志	to pursue a goal with determination; inspirational; motivational
勵志哥	(coll.) a guy who is admired for having overcome challenges to achieve success
勵精圖治	(of a ruler) to strive to make one's nation strong and prosperous (idiom)
勷	haste
勸	to advise; to urge; to try to persuade
勸勉	to advise; to encourage
勸動	to incite
勸化	to exhort (sb) to live a virtuous life (Buddhism); to beg for alms
勸告	to advise; to urge; to exhort
勸和	to mediate; to urge peace
勸善懲惡	to encourage virtue and punish evil (idiom); fig. poetic justice
勸導	to advise; to attempt to convince
勸慰	to console
勸教	to advise and teach; to persuade and instruct
勸服	to persuade; to convince; to win (sb) over
勸架	to mediate in a quarrel
勸止	to dissuade; to persuade sb to desist
勸解	conciliation; mediation; to mollify
勸誘	to prevail upon; to coax
勸誡	to exhort; to admonish
勸說	to persuade; persuasion; to advise
勸諫	to admonish
勸農	(historical) to encourage farming; to encourage farmers to cultivate the land
勸農使	commissioner for the encouragement of agriculture, an official title in imperial China
勸退	to try to persuade sb to withdraw (from a job, candidacy, school etc)
勸酒	to urge sb to drink alcohol
勸阻	to advise against; to dissuade
勸駕	to urge sb to accept a post; to urge sb to agree to do sth
勺	spoon; ladle; abbr. for 公勺[gong1 shao2], centiliter (unit of volume)
勺嘴鷸	(bird species of China) spoon-billed sandpiper (Calidris pygmaea)
勺子	spoon; ladle
勺雞	(bird species of China) koklass pheasant (Pucrasia macrolopha)
勻	even; well-distributed; uniform
勻實	even; uniform
勻整	neat and well-spaced
勻淨	even; uniform
勻溜	even and smooth
勻稱	well proportioned; well shaped
勻速	uniform velocity
勾	to attract; to arouse; to tick
勾三搭四	to make hanky-panky; to seduce women
勾人	sexy; seductive
勾兌	to blend various types of wine (or spirits, or fruit juices etc)
勾八	(slang) see 雞巴|鸡巴[ji1 ba5]
勾出	to delineate; to articulate; to evoke
勾劃	to sketch; to delineate
勾勒	to draw the outline of; to outline; to sketch
勾引	to seduce; to tempt
勾心鬥角	to fight and scheme against each other (idiom)
勾手	to collude with; to collaborate; (basketball) hook shot
勾拳	hook (punch in boxing)
勾搭	to gang up; to fool around with; to make up to
勾欄	brothel; theater; carved balustrade
勾玉	magatama (Japanese curved beads)
勾留	to stay; to stop over; to break one's journey
勾畫	to sketch out; to delineate
勾當	shady business
勾破	(of sth sharp) to snag (one's stockings etc)
勾結	to collude with; to collaborate with; to gang up with
勾縫	to point a brick wall; to grout a tiled surface
勾股定理	Pythagorean theorem
勾肩搭背	(idiom) arms around each other's shoulders
勾芡	to thicken with cornstarch
勾號	check mark (✓)
勾走	to steal (sb's heart)
勾起	to evoke; to induce; to call to mind
勾踐	King Gou Jian of Yue (c. 470 BC), sometimes considered one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸
勾通	to collude with; to conspire
勾連	to be linked together; to be involved with; to collude
勾選	to select (one or more options from a list); to check (a box)
勾銷	to write off; to cancel
勾魂	to take away sb's soul; (fig.) to captivate; to enchant
勿	do not
勿cue	(Internet slang) don't call on me; don't drag me in
勿忘國恥	Never forget national humiliation, refers to Mukden railway incident of 18th September 1931 九一八事變|九一八事变 and subsequent Japanese annexation of Manchuria
勿忘我	forget-me-not, genus Myosotis (botany)
勿謂言之不預	(idiom) don't say you haven't been forewarned (threat used by the PRC in international diplomacy)
包	to cover; to wrap; to hold
包乘	to charter (a car, ship, plane)
包乘制	chartering system
包乘組	chartering charge
包乾	to have the full responsibility of a job; allocated task
包乾制	a system of payment partly in kind and partly in cash
包二奶	to cohabit with and financially support a mistress
包住	to envelop; to wrap; to enclose
包價	package; all-inclusive deal
包價旅遊	package holiday
包公	Lord Bao or Judge Bao, fictional nickname of Bao Zheng 包拯[Bao1 Zheng3] (999-1062), Northern Song official renowned for his honesty
包剪錘	rock-paper-scissors (game)
包剿	to surround and annihilate (bandits)
包包	(coll.) handbag; purse
包吃包住	to provide full board
包含	to contain; to embody; to include
包商	(Tw) contractor
包囊	bundle; bag
包圍	to surround; to encircle; to hem in
包圓兒	to buy the whole lot; to take everything remaining
包在我身上	leave it to me (idiom); I'll take care of it
包埋	to embed
包場	to reserve all the seats (or a large block of seats) at a theater, restaurant etc
包夜	to book a service for overnight use (karaoke room, internet café etc)
包夾	to surround; to hem in; (sports) double-teaming
包子	baozi; bao (steamed stuffed bun)
包子有肉不在褶上	a book is not judged by its cover (idiom)
包容	to pardon; to forgive; to show tolerance
包容心	tolerance; acceptance; inclusivity
包封	to seal; to close up a package with a seal
包層	cladding; covering (on a fiber)
包工	to undertake to perform work within a time limit and according to specifications
包工頭	chief labor contractor
包巾	headscarf; turban
包庇	to shield; to harbor; to cover up
包廂	box (in a theater or concert hall)
包待制	Bao Daizhi, "Edict Attendant Bao", fictional name used for Bao Zheng 包拯[Bao1 Zheng3] (999-1062), Northern Song official renowned for his honesty
包心菜	cabbage
包房	compartment (of train, ship etc); private room at restaurant
包打天下	to run everything (idiom); to monopolize the whole business
包承組	(responsible) crew
包抄	to outflank; to envelop
包括	to comprise; to include; to involve
包拯	Bao Zheng (999-1062), Northern Song official renowned for his honesty
包探	detective (in former times)
包換	to guarantee replacement (of faulty goods); warranty
包攬	to take it all upon oneself; to undertake the whole task; (fig.) to sweep (all prizes etc)
包攬詞訟	to canvas for lawsuits (idiom); to practice chicanery
包書皮	book cover
包月	to make monthly payments; monthly payment
包柔氏螺旋體	Borrelia, genus of Spirochaete bacteria
包機	chartered plane; to charter a plane
包氏螺旋體	Borrelia, genus of Spirochaete bacteria
包河區	Baohe, a district of Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
包治百病	guaranteed to cure all diseases
包活	job paid according to the amount of work done; contract work
包涵	to excuse; to forgive; to bear with; to be tolerant
包漿	patina (sheen on the surface of an antique)
包爾	Borr (Norse deity)
包產	to make a production contract
包產到戶	fixing of farm output quotas for each household
包產到戶制	system of quotas for farm output per household
包皮	wrapping; wrapper; foreskin
包皮環切	circumcision
包皮環切術	circumcision
包票	guarantee certificate
包租	to rent; to charter; to rent land or a house for subletting
包穀	(dialect) corn; maize
包管	to assure; to guarantee
包粟	(dialect) corn; maize
包紮	to wrap up; to pack; to bind up (a wound)
包羅	to include; to cover; to embrace
包羅萬象	all-embracing; all-inclusive
包舉	to summarize; to swallow up; to annex
包船	to charter a ship
包茅	bundled thatch
包荒	to be tolerant; to be forgiving; to conceal
包莖	phimosis (medicine)
包菜	cabbage
包藏	to contain; to harbor; to conceal
包藏禍心	(idiom) to harbor evil intentions; to conceal malice
包衣	capsule (containing medicine); husk (of corn)
包衣種子	seed enclosed in artificial capsule
包袋	bag
包被	peridium (envelope or coat of fungi, e.g. puffballs)
包袱	wrapping cloth; a bundle wrapped in cloth; load
包袱底兒	family heirloom; most precious family possession; person's secrets
包袱皮兒	wrapping cloth
包裝	to wrap; to package (goods etc); packaging; packing materials
包裝物	packaging
包裝紙	wrapping paper
包裹	to wrap up; to bind up; bundle
包豪斯	Bauhaus (German school of modern architecture and design)
包賠	guarantee to pay compensations
包身工	indentured laborer
包車	hired car; chartered car
包辦	to undertake to do everything by oneself; to run the whole show
包辦代替	to do everything oneself (idiom); not to allow others in on the act
包辦婚姻	forced marriage
包退	to guarantee refund (for faulty or unsatisfactory goods)
包退換	to guarantee refund or replacement (of faulty or unsatisfactory goods)
包郵	shipping included
包里斯	Boris (name)
包金	to gild; (old) wages paid to a performer or a troupe by a theater
包銀	contracted payment (esp. actors' salary in former times)
包銷	to have exclusive selling rights
包長	packet size (computing)
包間	private room (in a restaurant, or for karaoke etc); parlor; booth
包青天	Bao Qingtian, fictional nickname of Bao Zheng 包拯[Bao1 Zheng3] (999-1062), Northern Song official renowned for his honesty
包頭	turban; headband
包頭市	Baotou, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
包飯	to get or supply meals for a monthly rate; to board; to provide board
包餃子	to wrap jiaozi (dumplings or potstickers)
包養	to keep (a lover)
包龍圖	Bao Longtu, ”Bao of the Dragon Image”, fictional name used for Bao Zheng 包拯[Bao1 Zheng3] (999-1062), Northern Song official renowned for his honesty
匆	hurried; hasty
匆促	hastily; in a hurry
匆匆	hurriedly
匆忙	hasty; hurried
匆猝	hurried; hasty; abrupt
匆遽	hurried; impetuous; rash
匈	Hungary; Hungarian; abbr. for 匈牙利[Xiong1 ya2 li4]
匈奴	Xiongnu, a people of the Eastern Steppe who created an empire that flourished around the time of the Qin and Han dynasties
匈牙利	Hungary
匈牙利語	Hungarian language
匈語	Hungarian language
匉	noise of waters
匋	pottery
匍	used in 匍匐[pu2 fu2]
匍匐	to crawl; to creep; to lie prostrate
匍匐前進	to crawl forward
匍匐莖	(botany) stolon
匏	bottle gourd; Lagenaria vulgaris
匐	used in 匍匐[pu2 fu2]
匑	to bow; to salute
匕	dagger; ladle; ancient type of spoon
匕首	dagger
化	to make into; to change into; -ization
化作	to change into; to turn into; to become
化凍	to defrost
化合	chemical combination
化合價	valence (chemistry)
化合物	chemical compound
化名	to go by an alias; to assume a false name
化外	(old) outside the sphere of civilization
化妝	to put on makeup
化妝品	cosmetic; makeup product
化妝室	dressing room; powder room; (Tw) toilets
化妝師	makeup artist; (fig.) spin doctor; reputation manager
化妝水	skin toner
化妝舞會	masquerade
化子	beggar (old term); same as 花子
化學	chemistry; chemical
化學信息素	semiochemical
化學元素	chemical element
化學分析	chemical analysis
化學劑量計	chemical dosimeter
化學反應	chemical reaction
化學品	chemicals
化學品安全技術說明書	materials safety data sheet (MSDS)
化學家	chemist
化學工業	chemical industry
化學工程	chemical engineering
化學師	chemist; apothecary
化學式	chemical formula (e.g. water H2O)
化學彈藥	chemical ammunition
化學性	chemical
化學性質	chemical property
化學成分	chemical composition
化學戰	chemical warfare
化學戰劑	chemical warfare agent
化學戰鬥部	chemical warhead
化學方程式	chemical equation
化學武器	chemical weapon
化學比色法	chemical colorimetry
化學治療	chemotherapy
化學激光器	chemical laser
化學物	chemicals
化學療法	chemotherapy
化學系	department of chemistry
化學纖維	man-made fiber
化學能	chemical energy
化學變化	chemical change; chemical transformation
化學鍵	chemical bond
化學需氧量	(environmental science) chemical oxygen demand; COD
化州市	Huazhou, a county-level city in Maoming City 茂名市[Mao4 ming2 Shi4], Guangdong
化工	chemical industry (abbr. for 化學工業|化学工业[hua4 xue2 gong1 ye4])
化工廠	chemical factory; chemical plant
化干戈為玉帛	lit. to exchange weapons of war for gifts of jade and silk (idiom)
化德縣	Huade, a county in Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
化整為零	to break up the whole into pieces (idiom); dealing with things one by one
化敵為友	to convert an enemy into a friend (idiom)
化日	sunlight; daytime
化武	chemical weapon; abbr. for 化學武器|化学武器[hua4 xue2 wu3 qi4]
化油器	carburetor
化為泡影	(idiom) to come to nothing
化為烏有	(idiom) to go up in smoke; to vanish
化用	to adapt (an idea etc)
化痰	to transform phlegm (TCM)
化療	chemotherapy
化石	fossil
化石燃料	fossil fuel
化石群	fossil assemblage
化糞池	septic tank
化約	to simplistically reduce (sth) to just ...; to regard (sth) as merely ...
化緣	(of a monk) to beg
化纖	man-made fiber (abbr. for 化學纖維|化学纤维[hua4 xue2 xian1 wei2])
化肥	chemical fertilizer
化腐朽為神奇	lit. to change something rotten into something magical (idiom)
化膿	to fester; to suppurate; to be infected
化膿性	purulent (containing pus); septic
化蛹	to pupate; to turn into a chrysalis
化裝	(of actors) to make up; to disguise oneself
化解	to dissolve; to resolve (contradictions); to dispel (doubts)
化身	incarnation; reincarnation; embodiment (of abstract idea)
化開	to spread out after being diluted or melted; to dissolve into a liquid
化隆回族自治縣	Hualong Hui Autonomous County, in Haidong City 海東市|海东市[Hai3 dong1 Shi4], Qinghai
化險為夷	to turn peril into safety (idiom); to avert disaster
化驗	chemical examination; to do a lab test
化齋	to beg for food (of monks)
北	north; (classical) to be defeated
北上	to go up north
北上廣	Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou (abbr. for 北京[Bei3 jing1] + 上海[Shang4 hai3] + 廣州|广州[Guang3 zhou1])
北上廣深	Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen (abbr. for 北京[Bei3 jing1] + 上海[Shang4 hai3] + 廣州|广州[Guang3 zhou1] + 深圳[Shen1 zhen4])
北二外	abbr. for 北京第二外國語學院|北京第二外国语学院[Bei3 jing1 Di4 er4 Wai4 guo2 yu3 Xue2 yuan4]
北亞	North Asia
北京	Beijing municipality, capital of the People's Republic of China (short name 京[Jing1])
北京中醫藥大學	Beijing University of Chinese Medicine
北京人	Beijing resident
北京南苑機場	Beijing Nanyuan Airport, military air base and secondary civil airport of Beijing
北京周報	Beijing Review
北京咳	"Beijing cough", respiratory problems caused by dry and polluted Beijing air, typically experienced by non-acclimated foreigners who would otherwise have no such problems
北京國家游泳中心	Beijing National Aquatics Center, swimming venue of the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games
北京國家體育場	Beijing National Stadium
北京外國語大學	Beijing Foreign Studies University (BFSU)
北京大學	Peking University
北京大興國際機場	Beijing Daxing International Airport (PKX)
北京工人體育場	Workers Stadium
北京工業大學	Beijing University of Technology
北京市	Beijing municipality, capital of the People's Republic of China (short name 京[Jing1])
北京師範大學	Beijing Normal University
北京廣播學院	Beijing Broadcasting Institute, former name of 中國傳媒大學|中国传媒大学[Zhong1 guo2 Chuan2 mei2 Da4 xue2]
北京教育學院	Beijing Institute of Education
北京日報	Beijing Daily
北京時間	Beijing Time (BJT); China Standard Time (CST)
北京晚報	Beijing Evening News
北京晨報	Beijing Morning Post, newspaper published 1998-2018
北京林業大學	Beijing Forestry University
北京烤鴨	Peking Duck
北京物資學院	Beijing Materials University
北京猿人	Peking ape-man
北京理工大學	Beijing Institute of Technology
北京環球金融中心	Beijing World Financial Center, skyscraper
北京產權交易所	China Beijing Equity Exchange (CBEX)
北京癱	"Beijing slouch", sitting posture said to be adopted esp. by Beijingers, popularized by 葛優|葛优[Ge3 You1]
北京科技大學	University of Science and Technology Beijing
北京第二外國語學院	Beijing International Studies University (BISU)
北京舞蹈學院	Beijing Dance Academy
北京航空航天大學	Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics
北京話	Beijing dialect
北京語言大學	Beijing Language and Culture University (BLCU)
北京語言學院	Beijing Language Institute
北京電影學院	Beijing Film Academy
北京青年報	Beijing Youth Daily, newspaper founded in 1949
北京音	Beijing pronunciation
北伐	the Northern Expedition, the Nationalists' campaign of 1926-1928 under Chiang Kai-shek, against the rule of local warlords
北伐軍	the Northern Expeditionary Army
北佬	northerner, person from Northern China (Cantonese)
北侖區	Beilun, a district of Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
北側	north side; north face
北冕座	Corona Borealis (constellation)
北冰洋	Arctic ocean
北半球	the Northern Hemisphere
北卡羅來納	North Carolina, US state
北印度語	Hindi; a north Indian language
北叟失馬	lit. the old man lost his horse, but it all turned out for the best (idiom)
北史	History of the Northern Dynasties, fifteenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled by Li Yanshou 李延壽|李延寿[Li3 Yan2 shou4] in 659 during Tang Dynasty, 100 scrolls
北周	the Northern Zhou Dynasty (557-581); one of the Northern Dynasties
北噪鴉	(bird species of China) Siberian jay (Perisoreus infaustus)
北回歸線	Tropic of Cancer
北國	the northern part of the country; the North
北圻	Tonkin, northern Vietnam during the French colonial period
北坡	north slope
北塔區	Beita, a district of Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
北外	abbr. for 北京外國語大學|北京外国语大学[Bei3 jing1 Wai4 guo2 yu3 Da4 xue2]
北大	Peking University (abbr. for 北京大學|北京大学)
北大荒	the Great Northern Wilderness (in Northern China)
北大西洋	North Atlantic
北大西洋公約組織	North Atlantic Treaty Organization, NATO
北威州	North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany
北安市	Bei'an, a county-level city in Heihe City 黑河市[Hei1 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
北安普敦	Northampton, town in central England, county town of Northamptonshire 北安普敦郡[Bei3 an1 pu3 dun1 jun4]
北宋	the Northern Song Dynasty (960-1127)
北宋四大部書	Four great compilations of Northern Song dynasty, namely: Extensive records of the Taiping era (978) 太平廣記|太平广记, Imperial readings of the Taiping era 太平御覽|太平御览, Prime tortoise of the record bureau 冊府元龜|册府元龟, Finest blossoms in the garden of literature 文苑英華|文苑英华
北寒帶	the north frigid zone
北屯	Beitun, city in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
北屯區	Beitun District of Taichung, Taiwan
北屯市	Beitun, city in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
北山	northern mountain; refers to Mt Mang 邙山 at Luoyang in Henan
北山羊	ibex
北島	Bei Dao (1949-), Chinese poet
北嶽	Mt Heng 恆山|恒山[Heng2 Shan1] in Shanxi, one of the Five Sacred Mountains 五嶽|五岳[Wu3 yue4]
北川羌族自治縣	Beichuan Qiang Autonomous County, in Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
北市	(Tw) Taipei (abbr. for 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4])
北布拉班特	Noord Brabant, Netherlands
北師大	Beijing Normal University
北平	Peiping or Beiping (name of Beijing at different periods, esp. 1928-1949)
北征	punitive expedition to the north
北愛	abbr. for 北愛爾蘭|北爱尔兰[Bei3 Ai4 er3 lan2], Northern Ireland
北愛爾蘭	Northern Ireland
北戴河區	Beidaihe, a district of Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
北投區	Beitou, a district of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
北斗	Big Dipper
北斗七星	(astronomy) Big Dipper
北斗星	the Big Dipper; the Plow
北斗衛星導航系統	BeiDou Navigation Satellite System (BDS) (similar to GPS)
北方	north; the northern part a country; China north of the Yellow River
北方中杜鵑	(bird species of China) oriental cuckoo (Cuculus optatus)
北方佬	northerner; guy from the north; Yankee
北方工業	Norinco, PRC state-run conglomerate
北方民族大學	Northern Nationalities University NNU at Yingchuan, Ningxia (former Northwestern Second College for Nationalities)
北方邦	Uttar Pradesh (state in India)
北朝	Northern Dynasties (386-581)
北朝鮮	North Korea
北朱雀	(bird species of China) Pallas's rosefinch (Carpodacus roseus)
北林區	Beilin, a district of Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
北柴胡	honewort; Cryptotaenia japonica
北椋鳥	(bird species of China) Daurian starling; purple-backed starling (Agropsar sturninus)
北極	the North Pole; the north magnetic pole
北極光	northern lights; aurora borealis
北極圈	Arctic Circle
北極星	North Star; Polaris
北極熊	polar bear
北極狐	arctic fox
北極鷗	(bird species of China) glaucous gull (Larus hyperboreus)
北歐	north Europe; Scandinavia
北歐兩項	(sports) Nordic combined
北歐航空公司	Scandinavian Airlines (SAS)
北江	Beijiang River
北汽	Beijing Automobile Works (BAW) (abbr. for 北京汽車製造廠|北京汽车制造厂[Bei3 jing1 Qi4 che1 Zhi4 zao4 chang3])
北洋	the Qing Dynasty name for the coastal provinces of Liaoning, Hebei, and Shandong
北洋政府	the Warlord government of Northern China that developed from the Qing Beiyang army 北洋軍閥|北洋军阀 after the Xinhai revolution of 1911
北洋水師	north China navy (esp. the ill-fated Chinese navy in the 1895 war with Japan)
北洋系	Beiyang faction of Northern Warlords
北洋軍	north China army, a modernizing Western-style army set up during late Qing, and a breeding ground for the Northern Warlords after the Qinghai revolution
北洋軍閥	the Northern Warlords (1912-1927)
北洋陸軍	north China army (esp. during the warlords period)
北派螳螂拳	Beipai Tanglang Quan - "Northern Praying Mantis" (Chinese Martial Art)
北流市	Beiliu, a county-level city in Yulin City 玉林市[Yu4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
北海	North Sea (in Europe)
北海公園	Beihai Park, in Beijing to the northwest of the Forbidden City
北海市	Beihai, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
北海艦隊	North Sea Fleet
北海道	Hokkaidō, Japan
北涼	Northern Liang of the Sixteen Kingdoms (398-439)
北湖區	Beihu, a district of Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
北溫帶	the north temperate zone
北漂	to migrate to Beijing or Taipei in search of better job opportunities
北漢	Han of the Five dynasties (951-979), one of ten kingdoms during the Five Dynasties, Ten Kingdoms period (907-960)
北燕	Northern Yan of the Sixteen Kingdoms (409-436)
北疆	northern Xinjiang (north of the Tian Shan mountains 天山[Tian1 Shan1])
北短翅鶯	(bird species of China) Baikal bush warbler (Locustella davidi)
北碚區	Beibei, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
北票市	Beipiao, a county-level city in Chaoyang City 朝陽市|朝阳市[Chao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
北端	northern extremity
北竿	Peikan Island, one of the Matsu Islands
北約	NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) (abbr. for 北大西洋公約組織|北大西洋公约组织[Bei3 Da4 xi1 Yang2 Gong1 yue1 Zu3 zhi1])
北紅尾鴝	(bird species of China) Daurian redstart (Phoenicurus auroreus)
北緯	north latitude
北美	North America
北美洲	North America
北苑	Beiyuan neighborhood of Beijing
北荷蘭	North Holland, a province of the Netherlands
北萊茵·威斯特法倫州	Nordrhein-Westfalen, state of Germany
北蝗鶯	(bird species of China) Middendorff's grasshopper warbler (Helopsaltes ochotensis)
北角	North Point district of Hong Kong
北越	northern Vietnam; North Vietnam (1945–1976)
北車	(coll.) Taipei Railway Station (abbr. for 台北車站|台北车站[Tai2 bei3 Che1 zhan4]) (Tw)
北辰	Polaris; North Star
北辰區	Beichen suburban district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
北達科他	North Dakota, US state
北邊	north; north side; northern part
北邙	Mt Mang at Luoyang in Henan, with many Han, Wei and Jin dynasty royal tombs
北部	northern part
北部灣	Gulf of Tonkin
北鎮市	Beizhen, a county-level city in Jinzhou City 錦州市|锦州市[Jin3 zhou1 Shi4], Liaoning
北長尾山雀	(bird species of China) long-tailed tit (Aegithalos caudatus)
北關區	Beiguan, a district of Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
北非	North Africa
北面	northern side; north
北韓	(Tw, HK) North Korea
北領地	Northern Territory, sparsely populated federal territory extending from center to north of Australia
北領角鴞	(bird species of China) Japanese scops owl (Otus semitorques)
北風	north wind
北馬其頓	North Macedonia
北馬里亞納	Northern Mariana Islands
北馬里亞納群島	Northern Mariana Islands
北魏	Wei of the Northern Dynasties (386-534), founded by the Tuoba 拓跋 branch of Xianbei 鮮卑|鲜卑
北鷚	(bird species of China) Pechora pipit (Anthus gustavi)
北鷹鵑	(bird species of China) rufous hawk-cuckoo (Hierococcyx hyperythrus)
北鼻	baby (loanword)
北齊	Qi of the Northern Dynasties (550-557)
北齊書	History of Qi of the Northern Dynasties, eleventh of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled by Li Baiyao 李百藥|李百药[Li3 Bai3 yao4] in 636 during Tang Dynasty, 50 scrolls
匙	used in 鑰匙|钥匙[yao4 shi5]
匚	"right open box" radical (Kangxi radical 22), occurring in 区, 医, 匹 etc
匜	washbasin with a tubular handle
匝	(literary) to encircle; to go around; to surround
匝加利亞	(Catholicism) Zechariah
匝月	(formal) a full month
匝道	freeway ramp
匠	craftsman
匠人	craftsman; artisan
匠心	ingenuity; craftsmanship
匠心獨運	original and ingenious (idiom); to show great creativity
匡	(literary) to rectify; (literary) to assist
匡扶社稷	(of states within the nation) to support the ruler in governing the country
匡正	to correct; to amend; to redress (evils)
匣	box
匣子	small box
匣槍	Mauser pistol (C96 type)
匪	bandit; (literary) not
匪夷所思	unimaginable; outrageous; freakish
匪巢	bandit stronghold
匪幫	gang of bandits
匪徒	gangster; bandit
匪徒集團	gangster
匪盜	bandit
匪穴	bandit den; rebel stronghold
匪首	bandit chief
匭	small box
匯	to remit; to converge (of rivers); to exchange
匯價	exchange rate
匯兌	remittance; funds paid to a bank account
匯入	to flow into; to converge (of river); (computing) to import (data)
匯出	to remit (funds); (computing) to export (data)
匯出行	remitting bank
匯劃	remittance
匯合	confluence; to converge; to join
匯回	to remit home
匯報	to report; to give an account of
匯寄	remit
匯川區	Huichuan, a district of Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
匯差	difference in exchange rates in different regions
匯市	foreign exchange market (abbr. for 外匯市場|外汇市场[wai4 hui4 shi4 chang3])
匯攏	to collect; to gather
匯映	joint screening; consecutive screening of collection of movies
匯業財經集團	Delta Asia Financial Group (Macau)
匯業銀行	Banco Delta Asia S.A.R.L., Macau
匯款	to remit money; remittance
匯水	remittance fee
匯注	to flow into; to converge
匯流	(of rivers etc) to converge; convergence
匯流環	slip-ring; rotary electrical interface; collector ring
匯演	joint performance
匯率	exchange rate
匯票	bill of exchange; bank draft
匯編	to compile; collection; compilation
匯編語言	assembly language
匯聚	convergence; to come together
匯豐	Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation (HSBC)
匯豐銀行	Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation (HSBC)
匯費	remittance fee
匯金	finance
匯集	to collect; to compile; to converge
匯點	confluence; a meeting point
匱	to lack; lacking; empty
匱乏	to be deficient in sth; to be short of sth (supplies, money etc)
匱竭	exhausted
匱缺	to be deficient in sth; to be short of sth (supplies, money etc)
匴	bamboo utensil used for washing rice in ancient times
匸	"cover" or "conceal" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 23) (distinguished from 匚[fang1])
匹	(bound form) matching; comparable to
匹偶	a married couple
匹克	Peak Sport Products Co., Chinese sportswear company
匹克球	(loanword) pickleball
匹夫	ordinary man; ignorant person; coarse fellow
匹夫匹婦	(idiom) ordinary people; commoners
匹敵	to be equal to; to be well-matched; rival
匹茲堡	Pittsburgh (Pennsylvania)
匹配	to mate or marry; to match; matching
匹馬力	horsepower
匽	to hide, to secrete, to repress; to bend
匾	horizontal rectangular inscribed tablet hung over a door or on a wall
匾額	a horizontal inscribed board
匿	to hide
匿名	anonymous; to remain anonymous
匿名信	anonymous letter
匿報	to withhold information
匿影藏形	to hide from public view; to conceal one's identity; to lay low
匿跡	to go into hiding
區	area; region; district
區位	geographical location
區分	to differentiate; to draw a distinction; to divide into categories
區分大小寫	case sensitive; distinguishing capitals from lowercase letters
區別	difference; to distinguish; to discriminate
區劃	subdivision (e.g. of provinces into counties)
區區	insignificant; trifling; merely
區區小事	trivial matter; trifle
區域	area; region; district
區域性	regional
區域碼	region code (DVD)
區域網絡	local area network; LAN
區域網路	local area network; LAN
區塊	block; segment; section; sector; area
區塊鏈	(computing) blockchain
區字框	radical 匚[fang1] (Kangxi radical 22)
區旗	district flag
區畫	subdivision (e.g. of provinces into counties)
區碼	area code; telephone dialing code
區處	(literary) dwelling; residence; (Tw) regional office of a company
區號	area code
區議會	district council
區長	district chief
區間	delimited area; defined section of a train or bus route
區間車	train or bus traveling only part of its normal route
區隔	to mark off; interval; segment (e.g. of market)
十	ten; 10
十一	PRC National Day (October 1st)
十一月	November; eleventh month (of the lunar year)
十一月份	November
十一路	(coll.) going on foot
十七	seventeen; 17
十七孔橋	Seventeen-Arch Bridge in the Summer Palace 頤和園|颐和园[Yi2 he2 yuan2], Beijing
十三	thirteen; 13
十三張	Chinese poker
十三日	thirteenth day of a month
十三經	the Thirteen Confucian Classics, namely: Book of Songs 詩經|诗经[Shi1 jing1], Book of History 尚書|尚书[Shang4 shu1], Rites of Zhou 周禮|周礼[Zhou1 li3], Rites and Ceremonies 儀禮|仪礼[Yi2 li3], Classic of Rites 禮記|礼记[Li3 ji4], Book of Changes 易經|易经[Yi4 jing1], Mr Zuo's Annals 左傳|左传[Zuo3 Zhuan4], Mr Gongyang's Annals 公羊傳|公羊传[Gong1 yang2 Zhuan4], Mr Guliang's Annals 穀梁傳|谷梁传[Gu3 liang2 Zhuan4], The Analects 論語|论语[Lun2 yu3], Erya 爾雅|尔雅[Er3 ya3], Classic of Filial Piety 孝經|孝经[Xiao4 jing1], Mencius 孟子[Meng4 zi3]
十三點	half-witted; nitwit
十之八九	most likely; mostly (in 8 or 9 cases out of 10); vast majority
十九	nineteen; 19
十二	twelve; 12
十二分	exceedingly; hundred percent; everything and more
十二地支	the 12 earthly branches 子[zi3], 丑, 寅, 卯, 辰, 巳, 午, 未, 申, 酉, 戌, 亥 (used cyclically in the calendar and as ordinal numbers)
十二宮	the twelve equatorial constellations or signs of the zodiac in Western astronomy and astrology, namely: Aries 白羊[Bai2 yang2], Taurus 金牛[Jin4 niu2], Gemini 雙子|双子[Shuang1 zi3], Cancer 巨蟹[Ju4 xie4], Leo 獅子|狮子[Shi1 zi3], Virgo 室女[Shi4 nu:3], Libra 天秤[Tian1 cheng4], Scorpio 天蠍|天蝎[Tian1 xie1], Sagittarius 人馬|人马[Ren2 ma3], Capricorn 摩羯[Mo2 jie2], Aquarius 寶瓶|宝瓶[Bao3 ping2], Pisces 雙魚|双鱼[Shuang1 yu2]
十二平均律	equal temperament
十二指腸	duodenum
十二支	the 12 earthly branches 子[zi3], 丑, 寅, 卯, 辰, 巳, 午, 未, 申, 酉, 戌, 亥 (used cyclically in the calendar and as ordinal number)
十二星座	the twelve signs of the zodiac
十二時辰	twelve divisions of the day of early Chinese and Babylonian timekeeping and astronomy
十二月	December; twelfth month (of the lunar year)
十二月份	December
十二碼	12-yard (sports); penalty kick
十二經	twelve channels of TCM
十二經脈	twelve channels of TCM
十二角形	dodecagon
十二邊形	dodecagon
十二面體	dodecahedron
十五	fifteen; 15
十位	the tens place (or column) in the decimal system
十倍	tenfold; ten times (sth)
十億	one billion; giga-
十克	decagram
十全	perfect; complete
十全十美	complete and beautiful; to be perfect (idiom)
十八	eighteen; 18
十六	sixteen; 16
十六國	Sixteen Kingdoms of Five non-Han people (ruling most of China 304-439)
十六國春秋	history of the Sixteen Kingdoms 304-439 by Cui Hong 崔鴻|崔鸿, written towards the end of Wei of the Northern Dynasties 北魏, 100 scrolls
十六字訣	16-character formula, esp. Mao Zedong's mantra on guerrilla warfare: 敵進我退，敵駐我擾，敵疲我打，敵退我追|敌进我退，敌驻我扰，敌疲我打，敌退我追[di2 jin4 wo3 tui4 , di2 zhu4 wo3 rao3 , di2 pi2 wo3 da3 , di2 tui4 wo3 zhui1] when the enemy advances we retreat; when the enemy makes camp we harass; when the enemy is exhausted we fight; and when the enemy retreats we pursue
十六烷值	cetane number (quality of light diesel fuel, measured by its ignition delay)
十六進制	hexadecimal
十分	very; completely; utterly
十分之一	one tenth
十分位數	decile (statistics)
十動然拒	to reject sb after being deeply touched by them (Internet slang)
十四	fourteen; 14
十四行詩	sonnet
十國春秋	History of Ten States of South China (1669) by Wu Renchen 吳任臣|吴任臣[Wu2 Ren4 chen2], 114 scrolls
十堰市	Shiyan, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
十多億	over one billion; more than a billion
十大神獸	the Baidu 10 mythical creatures (a set of hoax animals and puns linked to PRC Internet censorship)
十天干	the ten Heavenly Stems 甲[jia3], 乙[yi3], 丙[bing3], 丁[ding1], 戊[wu4], 己[ji3], 庚[geng1], 辛[xin1], 壬[ren2], 癸[gui3] (used cyclically in the calendar and as ordinal number like Roman I, II, III)
十字	cross road; cross-shaped; crucifix
十字形	cruciform; cross shape
十字架	cross; crucifix; yoke one has to endure
十字架刑	crucifiction
十字絲	crosshairs
十字繡	cross-stitch
十字花科	Cruciferae or Brassicaceae (taxonomic family including Brassica etc whose flowers have a cross of 4 petals)
十字螺絲刀	Phillips screwdriver (with a cross-shaped tip)
十字路口	crossroads; intersection
十字軍	the Crusades; Crusader army
十字軍東征	the Crusades
十字轉門	turnstile
十字鎬	pickaxe
十常侍	Ten Permanent Functionaries at the end of Han, a byword for corruption
十干	same as 天干
十年樹木，百年樹人	(idiom) it takes ten years to grow trees, but a hundred years to cultivate people
十幾	more than ten; a dozen or more
十惡不赦	wicked beyond redemption (idiom); heinous
十成	completely
十戒	the ten commandments (religion)
十拿九穩	(idiom) to be a cinch; in the bag
十指不沾陽春水	(saying) (usu. of a woman) to have no need to do household chores (washing clothes etc); to lead a pampered life
十數	more than ten; a dozen or more
十日談	Decameron, collection of 100 tales of love supposedly told by ten young people in ten days, written by Giovanni Boccaccio 薄伽丘[Bo2 jia1 qiu1]
十月	October; tenth month (of the lunar year)
十月份	October
十月革命	October Revolution
十有八九	most likely; mostly (in 8 or 9 cases out of 10); vast majority
十瓦	decawatt
十萬	hundred thousand
十萬位	the hundred thousands place (or column) in the decimal system
十萬八千里	light-years (apart); a million miles (apart)
十萬火急	most urgent; posthaste; express
十角形	decagon
十誡	ten commandments
十賭九輸	lit. in gambling, nine times out of ten you lose (idiom)
十足	ample; complete; hundred percent
十進	decimal; calculations to base 10
十進位	decimal system
十進位法	decimal system
十進制	decimal
十邊形	decagon
十里洋場	the Shanghai of old, with its foreign settlements
十面埋伏	Ambush from Ten Sides (pipa solo piece)
十項	ten items; decathlon (athletics)
十項全能	decathlon
卂	(archaic) to fly rapidly
千	thousand
千乘之國	(archaic) a state with a thousand chariots (to fight a war) – a powerful state
千伏	kilovolt
千位	the thousands place (or column) in the decimal system
千佛洞	Buddhist grottos
千依百順	totally submissive (idiom)
千億	myriads; hundred billion
千兆	giga-; (computer networking) gigabits per second; 1000Base-T
千克	kilogram
千兒八百	(coll.) one thousand or almost one thousand
千刀萬剮	(idiom) to hack (sb) to pieces (punishment in former times)
千分尺	micrometer screw gauge; micrometer
千千萬萬	lit. by the thousands and tens of thousands (idiom); untold numbers
千卡	kilocalorie; kcal
千古	for all eternity; throughout all ages
千古罪人	sb condemned by history (idiom)
千古遺恨	to have eternal regrets (idiom)
千叮萬囑	repeatedly urging; imploring over and over again
千周	kilocycle (KC), equals to 1,000 Hz
千噸	kiloton
千夫	a lot of people (literary)
千奇百怪	fantastic oddities of every description (idiom)
千姿百態	(idiom) to come in many different shapes; to display a great variety of forms
千嬌百媚	(idiom) (of a woman) bewitching; charming
千字文	Thousand Character Classic, 6th century poem used as a traditional reading primer
千字節	kilobyte
千家萬戶	every family (idiom)
千層麵	lasagna
千山區	Qianshan, a district of Anshan City 鞍山市[An1 shan1 Shi4], Liaoning
千島湖	Qiandao Lake in Zhejiang, aka Xin'an River Reservoir, created as part of a large hydroelectric project in 1959
千島群島	Kuril Islands, archipelago in Sakhalin, far-eastern Russia
千島醬	thousand island dressing
千差萬別	(idiom) extremely diverse; to vary greatly
千帕	kilopascal (kPa, unit of pressure)
千年	millennium
千恩萬謝	(idiom) to thank profusely; to express deep gratitude
千慮一失	reflect a thousand times and you can still make a mistake (idiom); to err is human
千慮一得	a thousand tries leads to one success (idiom, humble expr.); Even without any notable ability on my part, I may still get it right sometimes by good luck.
千挑萬選	to select very carefully
千斤頂	jack (mechanical lifting device)
千方百計	lit. thousand ways, a hundred plans (idiom); by every possible means
千焦	kilojoule
千瓦	kilowatt
千瓦時	kilowatt-hour
千真萬確	absolutely true (idiom); manifold; true from many points of view
千禧一代	Generation Y; Millennial Generation
千禧年	the first year of a millennium (esp. the year 2000)
千秋	a thousand years; your birthday (honorific)
千秋萬代	throughout the ages
千篇一律	thousand articles, same rule (idiom); stereotyped and repetitive
千米	kilometer
千絲萬縷	(idiom) intricately interconnected
千萬	ten million; countless; many
千葉	Chiba (Japanese surname, prefecture, and city)
千言萬語	thousands of words (idiom); having a lot of things to say
千變萬化	countless changes; constant permutation
千變萬軫	constantly changing, ever-varying (idiom)
千赫	kilohertz
千赫茲	kilohertz; kHz
千足蟲	millipede
千足金	.999 fine gold
千軍易得，一將難求	Easy to raise an army of one thousand, but hard to find a good general. (idiom)
千軍萬馬	magnificent army with thousands of men and horses (idiom); impressive display of manpower
千載難逢	extremely rare (idiom); once in a blue moon
千辛萬苦	to suffer untold hardships (idiom); trials and tribulations
千里	a thousand miles; a thousand li (i.e. 500 kilometers); a long distance
千里之堤，潰於蟻穴	(lit.) an ant hole may cause the collapse of a great dike (idiom)
千里之外	thousand miles distant
千里之行，始於足下	lit. a thousand mile journey begins with the first step
千里寄鵝毛	goose feather sent from afar (idiom); a trifling present with a weighty thought behind it
千里搭長棚，沒有不散的宴席	even if you build a thousand-league awning for it, every banquet must come to an end (idiom)
千里眼	clairvoyance
千里迢迢	(idiom) from a great distance; (to come) from afar
千里送鵝毛	goose feather sent from afar (idiom); a trifling present with a weighty thought behind it
千里送鵝毛，禮輕人意重	goose feather sent from afar, a slight present but weighty meaning (idiom); It's not the present the counts, it's the thought behind it.
千里送鵝毛，禮輕情意重	goose feather sent from afar, a trifling present with a weighty thought behind it (idiom); It's not the gift that counts, but the thought behind it.
千里達及托巴哥	Trinidad and Tobago (Tw)
千里達和多巴哥	Trinidad and Tobago
千里馬	lit. ten thousand mile horse; fine steed
千里馬常有，而伯樂不常有	(lit.) there are many swift horses, but very few who can spot them (proverb)
千里鵝毛	goose feather sent from afar (idiom); a trifling gift with a weighty thought behind it
千金	thousand jin 斤 (pounds) of gold; money and riches
千金一擲	lit. stake a thousand pieces of gold on one throw (idiom); to throw away money recklessly
千金一諾	a promise worth one thousand in gold (idiom); a promise that must be kept
千金方	Prescriptions Worth a Thousand in Gold, early Tang compendium of herbal medicine by Sun Simiao 孫思邈|孙思邈[Sun1 Si1 miao3]
千金要方	Prescriptions Worth a Thousand in Gold, early Tang compendium of herbal medicine by Sun Simiao 孫思邈|孙思邈[Sun1 Si1 miao3]
千金難買	can't be bought for one thousand in gold (idiom)
千鈞一髮	(lit.) a thousand pounds hangs by a thread (idiom)
千錘百鍊	after hard work and numerous revisions (idiom)
千陽縣	Qianyang, a county in Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
千難萬難	extremely difficult
千頭萬緒	plethora of things to tackle; multitude of loose ends
千鹼基對	kilobase pair (molecular biology)
卄	twenty, twentieth
卅	thirty
卆	to die
升	to ascend; to rise; to promote; to elevate; liter
升上	(of an employee) to be promoted to (a higher rank)
升任	to be promoted to
升值	to rise in value; to appreciate
升入	to progress to (a higher-level school)
升力	(aerodynamics) lift
升堂入室	lit. to reach the main room and enter the chamber (idiom)
升壓	to boost the pressure (of a fluid); to boost (or step up) the voltage
升壓劑	vasopressor agent; antihypotensive agent (medicine)
升天	lit. to ascend to heaven; to die
升學	to enter the next grade school
升官	to get promoted
升官發財	to be promoted and gain wealth (idiom)
升市	rising prices; bull market
升幅	extent of an increase; percentage rise
升序	ascending order
升息	(finance) to raise interest rates
升斗	liter and decaliter dry measure; (fig.) meager quantity of foodstuff
升斗小民	(idiom) poor people; those who live from hand to mouth
升旗	to raise a flag; to hoist a flag
升旗儀式	flag raising ceremony
升格	promotion; upgrade
升汞	mercuric chloride (HgCl)
升溫	to become hot; temperature rise; (fig.) to intensify
升班馬	(sports, esp. soccer) newly promoted team (one that has advanced from a lower league to a higher league)
升空	to rise to the sky; to lift off; to levitate
升糖	to raise blood glucose levels
升糖指數	glycemic index
升糖素	glucagon
升級	to go up by one grade; to be promoted; to escalate (in intensity)
升結腸	ascending colon (anatomy); first section of large intestine
升職	to get promoted (at work etc); promotion
升艙	to get a flight upgrade
升華	to sublimate; sublimation (physics); to raise to a higher level
升號	(music) sharp (♯)
升調	to promote to a higher post; (linguistics) rising intonation
升起	to raise; to hoist; to rise
升遐	to pass away (of an emperor)
升遷	to advance to a higher-level position; to be promoted to a higher position in a new department
升降	rising and falling
升降機	aerial work platform (e.g. cherry picker or scissor lift); lift
升限	(aviation) ceiling
升騰	to rise; to ascend; to leap up
升高	to raise; to ascend
午	7th earthly branch: 11 a.m.-1 p.m., noon, 5th solar month (6th June-6th July), year of the Horse
午休	noon break; lunch break; lunchtime nap
午前	morning; a.m.
午夜	midnight
午安	Good afternoon!; Hello (daytime greeting)
午宴	lunch banquet
午後	afternoon
午時	11 am-1 pm (in the system of two-hour subdivisions used in former times)
午睡	to take a nap in the afternoon
午覺	siesta; afternoon nap
午飯	lunch
午餐	lunch; luncheon
午餐會	luncheon
午餐肉	canned luncheon meat; Spam
午馬	Year 7, year of the Horse (e.g. 2002)
卉	plants
半	half; semi-; incomplete
半中腰	middle; halfway
半乳糖	galactose (CH2O)6; brain sugar
半乳糖血症	galactosemia
半人馬	centaur (mythology)
半人馬座	Centaurus (constellation)
半保留複製	semiconservative replication
半信半疑	(idiom) half believing, half doubting; not quite convinced; skeptical
半個	half of sth
半個人	(not) a single person; (no) one
半價	half price
半公開	semiovert; more or less open
半分	a little bit
半勞動力	one able to do light manual labor only
半半拉拉	incomplete; unfinished
半吊子	dabbler; smatterer; tactless and impulsive person
半圓	semicircle
半圓儀	protractor
半圓形	semicircular
半坡	Banpo neolithic Yangshao culture archaeological site east of Xi'an 西安
半坡遺址	Banpo neolithic Yangshao culture archaeological site east of Xi'an 西安
半場	half of a game or contest; half-court
半壁江山	half of the country (esp. when half the country has fallen into enemy hands)
半夏	Pinellia ternata
半夜	midnight; in the middle of the night
半夢半醒	half-awake; half-asleep
半大	medium-sized
半大不小	teenage; in one's teens; adolescent
半大小子	teenage boy; adolescent boy
半天	half of the day; a long time; quite a while
半失業	semi-employed; partly employed; underemployed
半官方	semiofficial
半寶石	semi-precious stone
半封建	semifeudal
半封建半殖民地	semifeudal and semicolonial (the official Marxist description of China in the late Qing and under the Guomindang)
半導瓷	semiconducting ceramic (electronics)
半導體	semiconductor
半小時	half an hour; 30 minutes
半履帶車	half-track (vehicle with wheels at the front and continuous tracks in the rear)
半山區	mid-levels (in Hong Kong)
半山腰	the mid-slope of a mountain
半島	peninsula
半島電視台	Al Jazeera (Arabic news network)
半工半讀	part work, part study; work-study program
半年	half a year
半徑	radius
半復賽	eighth finals
半懂不懂	to not fully understand; to only partly understand
半成品	semi-manufactured goods; semifinished articles; semifinished products
半截	half (of sth); halfway through
半截衫	upper jacket
半打	half a dozen
半托	day care
半拉	(coll.) half
半拱	semiarch; half arch
半推半就	half willing and half unwilling (idiom); to yield after making a show of resistance
半數	half the number; half
半數以上	more than half
半文盲	semiliterate
半斤八兩	not much to choose between the two; tweedledum and tweedledee
半旗	half-mast; half-staff
半日制學校	half-day (or double-shift) school
半日工作	part-time work in which one works each day for a half-day, typically a morning or an afternoon
半明不滅	dull (lamplight)
半晌	half of the day; a long time; quite a while
半月	half-moon; fortnight
半月刊	fortnightly; twice a month
半月板	meniscus (anatomy)
半月瓣	semilunar valve (anatomy)
半桶水	(coll.) (of one's skills, knowledge etc) limited; superficial
半條命	half a life; only half alive; barely alive
半橋	half bridge (electronics)
半死	half dead (of torment, hunger, tiredness etc); (tired) to death
半死不活	(idiom) half-dead; barely alive; (idiom) listless
半殖民地	semicolonial
半決賽	semifinals
半流食	(medicine) semi-liquid food
半流體	semifluid
半無限	semi-infinite
半熟	half-cooked; (of vegetables) parboiled; (of steak) medium; (of eggs) soft-boiled
半熟練	semiskilled
半熟蛋	soft-boiled egg
半球	hemisphere
半瓶水響叮噹	lit. if you tap a half-empty bottle it makes a sound (idiom)
半瓶醋	dabbler; dilettante who speaks as though he were an expert
半生	half a lifetime
半生不熟	underripe; half-cooked; (fig.) not mastered (of a technique)
半白	fifty (years of age)
半百	fifty (usually referring to sb's age)
半真半假	(idiom) half true and half false
半神	demigod
半票	half-price ticket; half fare
半空	midair
半空中	in midair; in the air
半糖夫妻	weekend spouse; relationship involving a sugar-daddy
半翅目	Hemiptera (suborder of order Homoptera, insects including cicadas and aphids)
半老徐娘	middle-aged but still attractive woman; lady of a certain age
半職	part-time work
半胱氨酸	cysteine (Cys), an amino acid; mercaptoethyl amine
半脫產	partly released from productive labor
半腰	middle; halfway
半腱肌	semitendinosus, one of the hamstring muscles in the thigh
半膜肌	semimembranosus (anatomy)
半自動	semiautomatic
半自耕農	semi-tenant peasant; semi-owner peasant
半表半裡	half outside, half inside; half interior, half exterior
半衰期	(physics) half-life
半裸	half-naked
半裸體	half-naked
半規則	quasi-regular
半規管	(anatomy) semicircular canal
半視野	half visual field
半跏坐	sitting with one leg crossed (usu. of Bodhisattva)
半路	halfway; midway; on the way
半路出家	(lit.) to enter monastic life at a mature age (idiom)
半路殺出個程咬金	lit. Cheng Yaojin ambushes the enemy (saying)
半蹲	half squat
半蹼鷸	(bird species of China) Asian dowitcher (Limnodromus semipalmatus)
半身不遂	paralysis of one side of the body; hemiplegia
半身像	half-length photo or portrait; bust
半軸	semiaxis; half axle
半載	half a year
半輩子	half of a lifetime
半透明	translucent; semitransparent
半途	halfway; midway
半途而廢	to give up halfway (idiom); leave sth unfinished
半通不通	to not fully understand (idiom)
半邊	half of sth; one side of sth
半邊天	half the sky; women of the new society; womenfolk
半長軸	semiaxis; radius
半開化	semicivilized
半開半關	half-open, half closed
半開門	half-open door; fig. prostitute
半間不界	shallow; not thorough; superficial
半音	semitone
半音程	semitone
半響	half the day; a long time; quite a while
半馬	half-marathon (abbr. for 半程馬拉松|半程马拉松[ban4 cheng2 ma3 la1 song1])
半麻醉	local anesthetic
半點	the least bit
卌	forty
卍	swastika, a sacred and auspicious symbol in Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism
卐	swastika, a sacred and auspicious symbol in Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism, later adopted by Nazi Germany
卑	low; base; vulgar
卑下	base; low
卑不足道	not worth mentioning
卑之，毋甚高論	my opinion, nothing very involved (idiom, humble expression); my humble point is a familiar opinion
卑之，無甚高論	my opinion, nothing very involved (idiom, humble expression); my humble point is a familiar opinion
卑以自牧	(idiom) to conduct oneself humbly; modest
卑劣	base; mean; despicable
卑卑不足道	to be too petty or insignificant to mention
卑南族	puyuma, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
卑微	lowly; humble
卑怯	mean and cowardly; abject
卑污	despicable and filthy; foul
卑爾根	Bergen
卑親屬	(law) junior relatives; relatives of a younger generation such as children, grandchildren or nephews
卑詩	British Columbia, province of Canada (loanword from "BC")
卑賤	lowly; mean and low
卑躬屈節	to bow and scrape; to act servilely
卑躬屈膝	to bow and bend the knee (idiom); fawning
卑辭厚幣	humble expression for generous donation
卑辭厚禮	humble expression for generous gift
卑鄙	base; mean; contemptible
卑鄙無恥	(idiom) shameless; despicable; devoid of integrity
卑鄙齷齪	sordid and contemptible (idiom); vile and repulsive (esp. character or action)
卑陋	humble; petty; crude
卑陋齷齪	sordid and contemptible (idiom); vile and repulsive (esp. character or action)
卒	soldier; servant; to finish
卒中	stroke; cerebral hemorrhage
卒業	to complete a course of study (old); to graduate
卒歲	(literary) to get through the year; entire year; throughout the year
卓	surname Zhuo
卓乎不群	standing out from the common crowd (idiom); outstanding; preeminent
卓別林	Charlie Chaplin (1899-1977), English movie actor and director
卓尼縣	Jonê, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
卓有成效	highly effective; fruitful
卓然	outstanding; eminent
卓爾不群	standing above the common crowd (idiom); outstanding
卓異	(of talent) outstanding; exceptional
卓絕	unsurpassed; extreme; extraordinary
卓著	outstanding; eminent; brilliant
卓識	superior judgment; sagacity
卓資縣	Zhuozi, a county in Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
卓越	outstanding; surpassing; distinguished
協	to cooperate; to harmonize; to help
協作	cooperation; coordination
協力	to unite in common effort
協力車	vehicle powered by two or more pedallers (typically, a tandem bicycle)
協助	to provide assistance; to aid
協同	to cooperate; in coordination with; coordinated
協同主持人	(Tw) (in a research project) collaborator of the investigator(s)
協同作用	synergy; cooperative interaction
協和	to harmonize; harmony; cooperation
協和式客機	Concorde, supersonic passenger airliner
協和飛機	Concorde, supersonic passenger airliner
協商	to consult with; to talk things over; agreement
協商會議	consultative conference (political venue during early communist rule)
協奏	to perform (a concerto)
協奏曲	concerto
協定	agreement; accord; to reach an agreement
協方差	(statistics) covariance
協會	an association; a society
協理	assistant manager; to assist in managing
協管	to assist in managing (e.g. traffic police or crowd control)
協管員	assistant manager; steward
協約	entente; pact; agreement
協約國	Allies; entente (i.e. Western powers allied to China in WW1)
協處理器	coprocessor
協調	to coordinate; to harmonize; to fit together
協調世界時	Coordinated Universal Time (UTC)
協調人	coordinator
協調員	coordinator
協警	auxiliary police
協議	agreement; pact; protocol
協議書	contract; protocol
協變量	covariate (statistics)
協辦	to assist; to help sb do sth; to cooperate in doing sth
協韻	to rhyme
南	used in 南無|南无[na1 mo2]; Taiwan pr. [na2]
南三角座	Triangulum Australe (constellation)
南下	to go down south
南丹縣	Nandan, a county in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
南乳	fermented soybean curd
南亞	southern Asia
南亞區域合作聯盟	South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC)
南亞大草鶯	(bird species of China) Indian grassbird (Graminicola bengalensis)
南京	Nanjing, capital of the Ming dynasty (1368–1421) and of the Republic of China (1927–1937 and 1946–1949)
南京大學	Nanjing University, NJU
南京大屠殺	the Nanjing Massacre (1937-38)
南京市	Nanjing, sub-provincial city and capital of Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
南京條約	Treaty of Nanjing (1842) that concluded the First Opium War between Qing China and Britain
南京理工大學	Nanjing University of Science and Technology
南京路	Nanjing St., large commercial street in Shanghai
南京農業大學	Nanjing Agricultural University
南京郵電大學	Nanjing Post and Communications University
南側	south side; south face
南充市	Nanchong, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
南冕座	Corona Australis (constellation)
南冰洋	Southern Ocean
南北	north and south; north to south
南北朝	Northern and Southern dynasties (420-589)
南北極	south and north poles
南北美	North and South America
南北長	north-south distance
南北韓	North and South Korea
南十字座	(astronomy) the Southern Cross
南半球	the Southern Hemisphere
南卡羅來納	South Carolina, US state
南召縣	Nanzhao, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
南史	History of the Southern Dynasties, fourteenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled by Li Yanshou 李延壽|李延寿[Li3 Yan2 shou4] in 659 during Tang Dynasty, 80 scrolls
南和區	Nanhe, a district of Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
南唐	Tang of the Five Southern Dynasties 937-975
南喬治亞島和南桑威奇	South Georgia and The South Sandwich Islands
南回歸線	Tropic of Capricorn
南坡	south slope
南城縣	Nancheng, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
南大	Nanjing University, NJU (abbr. for 南京大學|南京大学[Nan2 jing1 Da4 xue2])
南大洋	Southern Ocean
南天門	South Gate to Heaven, the name a gate constructed on various mountains, most notably on Mount Tai 泰山[Tai4 Shan1]
南奧塞梯	South Ossetia
南安市	Nan'an, a county-level city in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
南安普敦	Southampton, town in south England
南宋	the Southern Song dynasty (1127-1279)
南定	Nam Dinh, Vietnam
南宮	two-character surname Nangong
南宮市	Nangong, a county-level city in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
南寧市	Nanning, prefecture-level city and capital of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
南屯區	Nantun District of Taichung, Taiwan
南山區	Nanshan, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
南岔縣	Nancha, a county in Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
南岸區	Nan'an, a district of central Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
南島	South Island (of New Zealand); (bound form) Austronesian
南崗區	Nangang, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
南嶺	Nanling mountain, on the border of Hunan, Jiangxi, Guangdong and Guangxi
南嶽	Nanyue district of Hengyang city 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 shi4], Hunan
南嶽區	Nanyue, a district of Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
南川區	Nanchuan, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
南希	Nancy
南平市	Nanping, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
南康區	Nankang, a district of Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
南征	punitive expedition to the south
南征北伐	war on all sides (idiom); fighting from all four quarters
南征北戰	war on all sides (idiom); fighting from all four quarters
南征北討	war on all sides (idiom); fighting from all four quarters
南投	Nantou city and county in central Taiwan
南投市	Nantou city in central Taiwan, capital of Nantou county
南投縣	Nantou County in central Taiwan
南拳	Nanquan - "Southern Fist" (Chinese Martial Art)
南拳媽媽	Nan Quan Mama, a Taiwanese Music Group
南斯拉夫	Yugoslavia (former country that existed in various forms from 1918 to 2003)
南方	south; southern direction
南方古猿	Australopithecus
南方周末	Southern Weekend (newspaper)
南方澳漁港	Nanfang-ao Port in Yilan County 宜蘭縣|宜兰县[Yi2 lan2 Xian4], Taiwan
南昌市	Nanchang, prefecture-level city and capital of Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
南昌縣	Nanchang, a county in Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
南昌起義	Nanchang Uprising, 1st August 1927, the beginning of military revolt by the Communists in the Chinese Civil War
南明區	Nanming, a district of Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
南普陀寺	Nanputuo Temple in Xiamen 廈門|厦门[Xia4 men2]
南朝	Southern Dynasties (420-589)
南朝宋	Song of the Southern dynasties (420-479), with capital at Nanjing
南朝梁	Liang of the Southern dynasties (502-557)
南朝陳	Chen of the Southern dynasties (557-589)
南朝鮮	South Korea
南朝齊	Qi of Southern dynasties (479-502)
南木林縣	Namling, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
南柯一夢	lit. a dream of Nanke; fig. dreams of grandeur
南棗	dried jujubes
南極	the South Pole; the south magnetic pole
南極光	southern lights; aurora australis
南極圈	Antarctic Circle
南極座	Octans (constellation)
南極洲	Antarctica
南極洲半島	the Antarctic Peninsula (jutting out towards South America)
南極海	Southern Ocean
南極界	Antarctic realm
南樂縣	Nanle, a county in Puyang City 濮陽市|濮阳市[Pu2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
南歐	Southern Europe
南江縣	Nanjiang, a county in Bazhong City 巴中市[Ba1 zhong1 Shi4], Sichuan
南沙區	Nansha, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
南沙群島	Spratly Islands, disputed between China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam
南波萬	(Internet slang) number one (loanword)
南泥灣	Nanniwan, township 45 km south of Yan'an 延安[Yan2 an1], Shaanxi
南洋	Southeast Asia; South seas
南洋商報	Nanyang Siang Pau (Malay's oldest newspaper)
南洋理工大學	Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
南派螳螂	Chow Gar - "Southern Praying Mantis" - Martial Art
南浦市	Nampo city in North Korea
南海	South China Sea
南海區	Nanhai, a district of Foshan City 佛山市[Fo2 shan1 Shi4], Guangdong
南海子	Nanhaizi, name used to refer to various places, including 草海[Cao3 hai3], 南苑[Nan2 yuan4] and the Nanhaizi Wetland in Baotou, Inner Mongolia
南海艦隊	South Sea Fleet
南涼	Southern Liang of the Sixteen Kingdoms (397-414)
南港區	Nangang, a district of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
南湖區	Nanhu, a district of Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
南溪區	Nanxi, a district of Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
南漢	Southern Han
南漳縣	Nanzhang, a county in Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
南潯區	Nanxun, a district of Huzhou City 湖州市[Hu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
南澗彝族自治縣	Nanjian Yi Autonomous County, in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
南澳	South Australia (abbr. for 南澳大利亞州|南澳大利亚州[Nan2 Ao4 da4 li4 ya4 Zhou1])
南澳大利亞州	South Australia, Australian state
南澳島	Nan'ao Island in Shantou 汕頭|汕头[Shan4 tou2], Guangdong
南澳縣	Nan'ao, a county in Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
南灰伯勞	(bird species of China) southern grey shrike (Lanius meridionalis)
南無	Buddhist salutation or expression of faith (loanword from Sanskrit)
南燕	Southern Yan of the Sixteen Kingdoms (398-410)
南特	Nantes (city in France)
南瓜	pumpkin
南瓜燈	jack-o'-lantern
南疆	southern border (of a country)
南皮縣	Nanpi, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
南盟	abbr. for 南亞區域合作聯盟|南亚区域合作联盟[Nan2 Ya4 Qu1 yu4 He2 zuo4 Lian2 meng2]
南票區	Nanpiao, a district of Huludao City 葫蘆島市|葫芦岛市[Hu2 lu2 dao3 Shi4], Liaoning
南端	southern end or extremity
南竿	Nankan Island, one of the Matsu Islands
南箕北斗	lit. the Winnowing Basket in the southern sky, and the Big Dipper in the north (idiom)
南緯	south latitude
南縣	Nan County or Nanxian, a county in Yiyang City 益陽市|益阳市[Yi4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
南美	South America
南美梨	avocado (Persea americana)
南美洲	South America
南聯盟	Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (1992–2003) (abbr. for 南斯拉夫聯盟共和國|南斯拉夫联盟共和国[Nan2 si1 la1 fu1 Lian2 meng2 Gong4 he2 guo2])
南腔北調	a regional accent
南膠河	Nanjiao River (Shandong province, flows into Qingdao harbor)
南航	China Southern Airlines
南芬區	Nanfen, a district of Benxi City 本溪市[Ben3 xi1 Shi4], Liaoning
南苑	Nanyuan or "Southern Park", an imperial hunting domain during the Yuan, Ming and Qing Dynasties, now the site of Nanhaizi Park in the south of Beijing
南荷蘭	South Holland, a province of the Netherlands
南華	South China
南華早報	South China Morning Post (newspaper in Hong Kong)
南華縣	Nanhua, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
南蘇丹	South Sudan
南西諸島	Ryukyu Islands
南詔	Nanzhao kingdom 738-937 in southwest China and southeast Asia
南詔國	Nanzhao, 8th and 9th century kingdom in Yunnan, at times allied with Tang against Tibetan Tubo pressure
南譙區	Nanqiao, a district of Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
南豐縣	Nanfeng, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
南贍部洲	Jambudvipa
南越	South Vietnam; South Vietnamese
南轅北轍	to act in a way that defeats one's purpose (idiom)
南迦巴瓦峰	Namcha Barwa (7,782 m), Himalayan mountain
南通市	Nantong, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
南達科他	South Dakota, US state
南邊	south; south side; southern part
南郊區	Nanjiao district of Datong city 大同市[Da4 tong2 shi4], Shanxi
南部	southern part
南部縣	Nanbu, a county in Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
南郭	two-character surname Nanguo
南鄭區	Nanzheng, a district of Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
南門二	Alpha Centauri or Rigel Kentaurus
南開	Nankai district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
南開區	Nankai, a district of Tianjin 天津市[Tian1 jin1 Shi4]
南開大學	Nankai University (Tianjin)
南關區	Nanguan, a district of Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
南陵縣	Nanling, a county in Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
南陽市	Nanyang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
南陽縣	Nanyang county in Henan
南雄市	Nanxiong, a county-level city in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
南靖縣	Nanjing, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
南非	South Africa; Southern Africa
南非茶	rooibos tea
南非語	Afrikaans (language)
南面	south side; south
南韓	(Tw, HK) South Korea
南飛過冬	(of birds) to migrate south for the winter
南高加索	Transcaucasia, aka the South Caucasus
南魚座	Piscis Austrinus (constellation)
南齊	Qi of Southern dynasties (479-502)
南齊書	History of Qi of the Southern Dynasties, seventh of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled by Xiao Zixian 蕭子顯|萧子显[Xiao1 Zi3 xian3] in 537 during Liang of the Southern Dynasties 南朝梁[Nan2 chao2 Liang2], 59 scrolls
博	(bound form) abundant; plentiful; extensive; wide; to win; to gain
博世	(surname) Bosch; Bosch, German technology company
博主	blogger; content creator
博伊西	Boise, Idaho
博友	lit. blog friend
博取	to win (favors, confidence etc)
博古	Bo Gu (1907-1946), Soviet-trained Chinese Communist, journalist and propagandist, 1930s Left adventurist, subsequently rehabilitated, killed in air crash
博古通今	conversant with things past and present; erudite and informed
博士	doctor (as an academic degree)
博士學位	doctoral degree; PhD
博士導師	doctoral advisor; PhD supervisor
博士山	Box Hill, a suburb of Melbourne, Australia with a large Chinese community
博士後	postdoc; postdoctoral fellow
博士生	PhD student; doctoral candidate
博士茶	rooibos tea
博士買驢	(idiom) to act like the scholar who wrote at length about buying a donkey without even mentioning the word "donkey"; to write at length without ever getting to the point
博大	broad; extensive
博大精深	(idiom) wide-ranging and profound
博學	learned; erudite
博學多才	(idiom) erudite and multitalented; versatile and able
博客	(loanword) a blog; a blogger
博客圈	blogosphere
博客寫手	blogger; blog writer
博客話劇	blog drama (netspeak)
博導	supervisor of a PhD candidate
博山區	Boshan, a district of Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
博帕爾	Bhopal, capital of central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh 中央邦[Zhong1 yang1 bang1]
博弈	games (such as chess, dice etc); gambling; contest
博弈論	game theory
博彩	gambling
博後	postdoc; postdoctoral fellow
博徒	gambler
博得	to win; to gain
博德	Bodø (city in Norway)
博德利圖書館	Bodleian Library (Oxford)
博愛	to show love and compassion for all humankind
博愛座	(Tw) priority seat (on a bus etc)
博愛縣	Bo'ai, a county in Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
博拉博拉島	Bora Bora, island of the Society Islands group in French Polynesia
博文	blog post
博文約禮	vigorously pursuing knowledge, while scrupulously abiding by the rules of decorum (idiom)
博斯普魯斯	Bosphorus
博斯沃思	Bosworth (name)
博斯騰湖	Bosten Lake in Xinjiang
博望區	Bowang, a district of Ma'anshan City 馬鞍山市|马鞍山市[Ma3 an1 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
博格	(name) Borg; Bjorn Borg (1956–), Swedish tennis star
博格多	Bogdo, last Khan of Mongolia
博格多汗宮	the Palace of the Bogdo Khan in Ulan Bator, Mongolia
博格達山脈	Bogda Shan mountain range in the Tian Shan mountains
博格達峰	Mt Bogda (5,445 m) in eastern Tianshan
博樂市	Bole, a county-level city in Bortala Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 博爾塔拉蒙古自治州|博尔塔拉蒙古自治州[Bo2 er3 ta3 la1 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
博洛尼亞	Bologna
博湖縣	Bohu, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
博爾塔拉蒙古自治州	Bortala Mongol Autonomous Prefecture, in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
博爾德	Boulder, Colorado
博爾赫斯	Jorge Luis Borges
博爾頓	Bolton (name)
博物	natural science
博物多聞	wide and knowledgeable; well-informed and experienced
博物學	natural history
博物學家	naturalist (expert in natural history)
博物洽聞	to have a wide knowledge of many subjects (idiom)
博物院	museum
博物館	museum
博登湖	Lake Constance (between Germany, Austria and Switzerland)
博白縣	Bobai, a county in Yulin City 玉林市[Yu4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
博眼球	to attract attention; to catch attention
博福斯	Bofors, Swedish arms company involved in major corruption case during 1980s
博科聖地	Boko Haram, Islamic insurgent group in north Nigeria
博羅縣	Boluo, a county in Huizhou City 惠州市[Hui4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
博美犬	Pomeranian (dog breed)
博而不精	extensive but not refined (idiom); to know something about everything
博聞多識	learned and erudite; knowledgeable and experienced
博聞強記	have wide learning and a retentive memory; have encyclopedic knowledge
博聞強識	erudite; widely read and knowledgeable
博興縣	Boxing, a county in Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
博茨瓦納	Botswana
博蒂	birdie (one stroke under par in golf)
博蒙特	Beaumont
博覽	to read extensively; to be widely read
博覽會	an exposition; an international fair
博訊	abbr. for 博訊新聞網|博讯新闻网[Bo2 xun4 Xin1 wen2 wang3], Boxun, US-based dissident Chinese news network
博識	knowledgeable; erudite; erudition
博識多通	knowledgeable and perspicacious (idiom)
博識洽聞	knowledgeable; erudite (idiom)
博野縣	Boye, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
博雅	learned
博鬥	to fight or argue on a blogging site (netspeak)
博鰲亞洲論壇	Boao Forum for Asia, founded in 2001
博鰲鎮	Bo'ao, coastal town in Hainan, a tourist destination and the site of the annual Boao Forum for Asia
卜	(bound form) to divine
卜卜米	Rice Krispies
卜占	to divine; to prophesy; to foretell the future
卜卦	to divine using the eight trigrams
卜問	to predict by divining; to consult the oracle
卜宅	to choose a capital by divination; to choose a home
卜居	to choose a home
卜征	to ask oracle for war forecast
卜晝卜夜	day and night (to toil, to abandon oneself to pleasure etc)
卜甲	oracle tortoise shell
卜筮	divination
卜課	to divine by tossing coins
卜辭	oracle inscriptions of the Shang Dynasty (16th-11th century BC) on tortoiseshells or animal bones
卜骨	oracle bone
卝	classical variant of 礦|矿[kuang4]
卞	surname Bian
卟	used in the transliteration of the names of organic compounds porphyrin 卟啉[bu3 lin2] and porphin 卟吩[bu3 fen1]
卟吩	porphin C20H14N4 (loanword)
卟啉	porphyrin (organic chemical essential to hemoglobin and chlorophyll) (loanword)
占	to take possession of; to occupy; to take up
占位符	(computing) placeholder
占優	to dominate; dominant
占卜	to divine
占地	to take up space; to occupy (space)
占地兒	to take up space
占地方	to take up space
占地面積	floor area; occupied area
占婆	Champa, ancient Indochinese kingdom lasting from the 2nd to the 17th century, located in what is now central and southern Vietnam
占族	Cham ethnic group
占星	to divine by astrology; horoscope
占星學	astrology
占星家	astrologer
占星師	astrologer
占星術	astrology
占比	proportion; percentage
占滿	to fill; to occupy completely
占著茅坑不拉屎	lit. to occupy a latrine but not shit (proverb)
卡	to stop; to block; (computing) (coll.) slow
卡丁車	go-kart
卡介苗	BCG vaccine; bacillus Calmette-Guérin vaccine
卡仕達	(loanword) custard
卡他	(loanword) (medicine) catarrh
卡仙尼	Cassini space probe
卡位	(sports) to jockey for position; (basketball) to box out; (commerce) to establish oneself in a competitive market (also pr. [qia3wei4])
卡住	to jam; to choke; to clutch
卡債	credit card debt
卡儂頭	XLR connector
卡內基	Carnegie (name)
卡內基梅隆大學	Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh
卡其	khaki (loanword)
卡典西德	(Tw) adhesive vinyl sheet, used esp. for decals and computer-cut lettering (loanword from "cutting sheet")
卡利亞里	Cagliari, Sardinia
卡利卡特	Calicut, town on Arabian sea in Kerala, India
卡利多尼亞	Caledonia
卡利科	calico (woven cloth from Caldicot, Kerala, India)
卡到陰	(Tw) to be possessed; to be bewitched
卡司	(Tw) (loanword) cast (of a film, TV show etc)
卡哇伊	cute; adorable; charming (loanword from Japanese)
卡啦	crispy, deep-fried (variant of 卡拉[ka3 la1])
卡地亞	Cartier (brand)
卡塔尼亞	Catania, Sicily
卡塔爾	Qatar
卡塔赫納	Cartagena
卡墊	(Tibetan) rug; mat
卡士達	(Tw) (loanword) custard
卡夫	Kraft, US food company
卡夫卡	Franz Kafka (1883-1924), Czech Jewish writer
卡奴	a slave to one's credit card
卡子	clip; hair fastener; checkpoint
卡宴	Cayenne, capital of French Guiana
卡尺	calipers
卡尼丁	carnitine (loanword) (biochemistry)
卡巴斯基	Kaspersky (computer security product brand)
卡巴萊	cabaret (loanword)
卡布其諾	cappuccino (loanword)
卡布其諾咖啡	cappuccino coffee
卡布奇諾	cappuccino (loanword)
卡帕	kappa (Greek letter Κκ)
卡帶	cassette tape
卡座	booth (in restaurants etc) (loanword from "car seat")
卡式	(of a device) designed to accept a cassette, cartridge or canister (loanword from "cassette")
卡式爐	portable gas stove (fueled by a gas cartridge)
卡彈	to jam (rifle)
卡恩	Kahn
卡扎菲	(Colonel Muammar) Gaddafi (1942-2011), de facto leader of Libya from 1969-2011
卡扣	clip; buckle
卡拉	Kara, city in northern Togo 多哥[Duo1 ge1]; Cara, Karla etc (name)
卡拉OK	karaoke (loanword)
卡拉什尼科夫	Kalashnikov (the AK-47 assault rifle)
卡拉卡斯	(Tw) Caracas, capital of Venezuela
卡拉奇	Karachi (Pakistan)
卡拉姆昌德	Karamchand (name)
卡拉季奇	Karadžić (Serbian surname)
卡拉布里亞	Calabria, southernmost Italian province
卡拉比拉	Karabilah (Iraqi city)
卡拉膠	carageenan (chemistry)
卡拉馬佐夫兄弟	Brothers Karamazov by Dostoevsky 陀思妥耶夫斯基[Tuo2 si1 tuo3 ye1 fu1 si1 ji1]
卡文迪什	Cavendish (name)
卡斯特利翁	Castellón
卡斯特羅	Castro (name)
卡斯特里	Castries, capital of Saint Lucia
卡斯翠	Castries, capital of Saint Lucia (Tw)
卡斯蒂利亞	Castilla, old Spanish kingdom
卡斯蒂利亞·萊昂	Castilla-Leon, north Spanish province
卡斯蒂利亞語	Castilian Spanish
卡方	chi-square (math.)
卡昂	Caen (French town)
卡桑德拉	Cassandra (given name); Cassandra (character in Greek mythology)
卡梅倫	Cameron (name)
卡森城	Carson City, capital of Nevada
卡榫	clip; latch (on a clip-into-place component)
卡槽	(electronics) card slot (for SD card, SIM card etc); clamping groove
卡樂星	Carl's Jr. (fast-food restaurant chain)
卡死	to jam up; to lock up; to become completely stuck
卡殼	(of a bullet or shell) to jam
卡池	deck of cards (in a trading card game)
卡波耶拉	capoeira (loanword)
卡波西氏肉瘤	Kaposi's sarcoma
卡洛娜	calzone (Italian pocket), folded pizza
卡洛斯	Carlos (name)
卡洛馳	Crocs, Inc.
卡爾	(name) Karl; Carl
卡爾·馬克思	Karl Marx (1818-1883), German socialist philosopher, political activist and founder of Marxism
卡爾加里	Calgary, largest city of Alberta, Canada
卡爾巴拉	Karbala (city in Iraq)
卡爾德龍	Calderon (Hispanic name)
卡爾文	Calvin (name)
卡爾文克萊因	Calvin Klein CK (brand)
卡爾斯魯厄	Karlsruhe (city in Germany)
卡爾森	(surname) Carlson; Carlsen; Karlsen
卡爾紮伊	Hamid Karzai (1957-), Afghan politician, president 2004-2014
卡爾頓	Carleton
卡片	card
卡片機	compact digital camera; point-and-shoot camera
卡牌	playing card
卡特	(name) Carter; Jimmy Carter (1924–2024), US president 1977–1981
卡特彼勒公司	Caterpillar Inc.
卡特爾	cartel (loanword)
卡珊德拉	Cassandra (given name); Cassandra (character in Greek mythology)
卡瓦斯	(loanword) kvass
卡瓦格博峰	Mt Kawakarpo (6740 m) in Yunnan, the highest peak of Meili Snow Mountains 梅里雪山[Mei2 li3 Xue3 shan1]
卡痰	to have phlegm stuck in one's throat
卡盤	chuck (for a drill etc)
卡秋莎	Katyusha (name); name of a Russian wartime song
卡納塔克邦	Karnataka (formerly Mysore), southwest Indian state, capital Bangalore 班加羅爾|班加罗尔[Ban1 jia1 luo2 er3]
卡納維拉爾角	Cape Canaveral, Florida, home of Kennedy space center 肯尼迪航天中心[Ken3 ni2 di2 Hang2 tian1 Zhong1 xin1]
卡納維爾角	Cape Canaveral, Florida
卡納蕾	canelé (a French pastry) (loanword)
卡納達語	Kannada (language)
卡紙	cardboard; card stock
卡羅利納	Carolina (Puerto Rico)
卡美拉	Gamera (Japanese ガメラ Gamera), Japanese movie monster
卡美洛	Camelot, seat of legendary King Arthur
卡脖子	to squeeze the throat; (fig.) to have in a stranglehold; critical
卡若區	Karub, a district of Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
卡薩布蘭卡	Casablanca (Morocco's economic capital)
卡薩諾瓦	Giacomo Casanova (1725-1798), Italian adventurer known for womanizing
卡西尼	Cassini (proper name)
卡西歐	Casio
卡西米爾效應	Casimir effect (attraction between two parallel metal plates due to quantum mechanical vacuum effects)
卡賓槍	carbine rifle (loanword)
卡路里	(loanword) calorie
卡車	truck
卡農	canon (music) (loanword)
卡通	cartoon (loanword)
卡達	Qatar (Tw)
卡門	Carmen (name)
卡關	to be stuck; to feel stuck
卡頓	(computing) slow; unresponsive; laggy
卡駱馳	Crocs, Inc.
卡點	to synchronize (a video etc) to the beat of a piece of music
卣	wine container
卦	divinatory diagram
卦義	interpretation of the divinatory trigrams
卦辭	to interpret the divinatory trigrams
卨	used in old names; phonetic seol used in Korean names
卩	"seal" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 26)
卬	I (regional colloquial); me
卮	goblet
卯	mortise (slot cut into wood to receive a tenon)
卯兔	Year 4, year of the Rabbit (e.g. 2011)
卯時	5-7 am (in the system of two-hour subdivisions used in former times)
卯榫	mortise and tenon (slot and tab forming a carpenter's joint)
卯眼	mortise; slit
卯起來	(coll.) to get enthusiastic; to put in all one's energy
印	surname Yin; abbr. for 印度[Yin4 du4], India
印信	official seal; legally binding seal
印刷	to print; printing
印刷品	printed products
印刷廠	printing house; print shop
印刷所	printing press; printing office; printer
印刷業	typography; printing business
印刷機	printing press
印刷版	printing plate; printed version (of a digital publication)
印刷術	printing; printing technology
印刷量	print run
印刷電路板	printed circuit board
印刷體	printed style (as opposed to cursive)
印加	Inca (South American Indians)
印古什	Ingushetia, republic in southwestern Russia
印地語	Hindi (language)
印堂	the part of the forehead between the eyebrows
印堂穴	yintang, acupuncture point at the midpoint between the medial ends of the eyebrows
印太	Indo-Pacific (from 印度洋[Yin4 du4 yang2] and 太平洋[Tai4 ping2 Yang2])
印子	trace; impression (e.g. footprint)
印子錢	usury; high interest loan (in former times)
印尼	Indonesia (abbr. for 印度尼西亞|印度尼西亚[Yin4 du4 ni2 xi1 ya4])
印尼盾	Indonesian rupiah
印尼語	Indonesian language
印巴	India and Pakistan
印度	India
印度人	Indian (person); Indian people
印度人民黨	Bharatiya Janata Party
印度國大黨	Indian Congress party
印度壽帶	(bird species of China) Indian paradise flycatcher (Terpsiphone paradisi)
印度尼西亞	Indonesia
印度尼西亞語	Indonesian language
印度支那	Indochina
印度支那半島	Indochina (old term, esp. colonial period)
印度教	Hinduism
印度教徒	Hindu; adherent of Hinduism
印度斯坦	Hindustan
印度時報	India Times
印度河	Indus River
印度洋	Indian Ocean
印度眼鏡蛇	Indian cobra (Naja naja)
印度航空公司	Air India
印度金黃鸝	(bird species of China) Indian golden oriole (Oriolus kundoo)
印度音樂	Bhangra, Indian music (music genre)
印度－雅利安	Indo-Aryan
印戒	signet ring
印戒細胞	(medicine) signet ring cell
印把子	seal of authority; official seal
印支	abbr. for 印度支那[Yin4 du4 zhi1 na4]
印支半島	Indochina (abbr. for colonial term 印度支那半島|印度支那半岛[Yin4 du4 zhi1 na4 Ban4 dao3])
印支期	Indo-Chinese epoch (geology); Indosinian orogeny
印支綠鵲	(bird species of China) Indochinese green magpie (Cissa hypoleuca)
印數	the amount of books etc printed at one impression; print run
印本	printed book; printed copy
印染	printing and dyeing
印次	number of print run
印歐人	Indo-European (person)
印歐文	Indo-European (language)
印歐語	Indo-European (language)
印歐語系	Indo-European family of languages
印歐語言	Indo-European (language)
印江土家族苗族自治縣	Yinjiang Tujia and Miao Autonomous County, in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
印泥	red ink paste used for seal
印版	printing plate
印璽	official seal; imperial or royal seal; papal bull
印痕	mark; print; impression
印發	to publish; to print and distribute
印盒	seal case; box for seal and ink pad
印章	seal; signet; chop
印第安	(American) Indian; native American; indigenous peoples of the Americas
印第安人	American Indians
印第安座	Indus (constellation)
印第安納	Indiana, US state
印第安納波利斯	Indianapolis, Indiana
印紐	decorated knob protruding from seal, allowing it to be strung on a cord
印綬	sealed ribbon fastening correspondence (in former times)
印緬斑嘴鴨	(bird species of China) Indian spot-billed duck (Anas poecilorhyncha)
印緬褐頭雀鶥	(bird species of China) manipur fulvetta (Fulvetta manipurensis)
印臺	ink pad; stamp pad
印臺區	Yintai, a district of Tongchuan City 銅川市|铜川市[Tong2 chuan1 Shi4], Shaanxi
印航	Air India (abbr.)
印花	tax stamp; to print a pattern or design on fabric
印花稅	stamp duty
印行	to print and distribute; to publish
印表機	printer (Tw)
印製	to print; to produce (a publication)
印製電路	printed circuit
印製電路板	printed circuit board
印記	imprint; trace
印證	to confirm; to corroborate; to verify; proof; evidence
印譜	collection of seal stamps
印象	impression (sth that stays in one's mind); a memory
印象主義	impressionism
印象分	points gained by making a good impression; kudos; brownie points
印象派	impressionism
印跡	footprint
印鈔機	money printer
印鈕	decorated knob protruding from seal, allowing it to be strung on a cord
印鑒	seal impression; stamp; mark from a seal serving as signature
印頭魚	shark sucker (Echeneis naucrates)
印魚	shark sucker (Echeneis naucrates)
印鼠客蚤	oriental rat flea (Xenopsylla cheopis)
印鼻	decorated knob protruding from seal, allowing it to be strung on a cord
危	danger; to endanger; Taiwan pr. [wei2]
危亡	at stake; in peril
危及	to endanger; to jeopardize; a danger (to life, national security etc)
危困	grave situation
危在旦夕	in imminent peril (idiom); on the brink of crisis
危地馬拉	Guatemala
危地馬拉人	Guatemalan (person)
危境	dangerous situation; venerable old age
危如朝露	precarious as the morning dew (idiom); fig. ephemeral and precarious nature of human existence
危如累卵	precarious as pile of eggs (idiom); ready to fall and break at any moment
危害	to harm; to jeopardize; to endanger; harmful effect; damage
危害性	harmfulness
危害評價	hazard assessment
危局	perilous situation
危徑	steep and perilous path
危急	critical; desperate (situation)
危性	risk
危懼	afraid; apprehensive
危房	decrepit house
危樓	(literary) tall building
危機	crisis
危機四伏	danger lurks on every side (idiom)
危機感	sense of crisis; acute awareness of looming danger or instability (often actively cultivated to spur preparedness or action)
危殆	grave danger; in jeopardy; in a critical condition
危篤	deathly ill
危而不持	national danger, but no support (idiom, from Analects); the future of the nation is at stake but no-one comes to the rescue
危若朝露	precarious as morning dew (idiom); unlikely to last out the day
危言危行	upright and plainspoken (idiom)
危言聳聽	frightening words to scare people (idiom); alarmist talk
危辭聳聽	to startle sb with scary tale
危迫	urgent; pressing danger
危途	dangerous road
危重	critically ill
危重病人	critically ill patient
危險	danger; dangerous
危險品	hazardous materials
危險警告燈	hazard lights
危難	calamity
卲	surname Shao
即	namely; that is; i.e.
即付	to pay on demand
即令	even if; even though
即位	to succeed to the throne; accession
即使	even if; even though
即便	even if; even though; right away
即刻	immediately; instant; instantly
即可	equivalent to 就可以; can then (do sth); can immediately (do sth)
即墨區	Jimo, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
即如	such as
即將	about to; on the point of; soon
即將來臨	imminent
即席	impromptu; improvised; to take one's seat (at a banquet etc)
即或	even if; even though
即指即譯	point-and-translate (computing)
即插即用	plug-and-play
即日	this or that very day; in the next few days
即早	as soon as possible
即時	immediate
即時制	real-time (gaming)
即時即地	moment-to-moment
即時消息	instant message
即時通訊	instant messaging
即期品	product approaching its expiry date (Tw)
即溶咖啡	instant coffee
即為	to be considered to be; to be defined to be; to be called
即由	namely
即興	improvisation (in the arts); impromptu; extemporaneous
即興之作	improvisation
即興發揮	improvisation
即食	instant (food)
卵	egg; ovum; spawn; (coll.) testicles; (old) penis
卵圓	oval; ellipse
卵圓形	oval; ellipsoidal
卵圓窗	(anatomy) oval window (between the middle and inner ear)
卵子	testicles; penis
卵巢	ovary
卵巢窩	(anatomy) ovarian fossa
卵形	oval; egg-shaped (leaves in botany)
卵模	ootype (site of egg composition in flatworm biology)
卵母細胞	(biology) oocyte; ovocyte
卵泡	ovarian follicle; Taiwan pr. [luan3pao4]
卵生	oviparous
卵用雞	laying hen
卵石	cobble; cobblestone; pebble
卵磷脂	lecithin (phospholipid found in egg yolk)
卵精巢	ovaries and testes
卵細胞	egg cell
卵胎生	ovoviviparous
卵蛋	(coll.) testicle; balls
卵裂	cleavage of fertilized ovum into cells
卵鞘	(invertebrate zoology) ootheca
卵黃	egg yolk
卵黃囊	yolk sac (ectodermal cells attaching fetus to uterus before the development of the placenta)
卵黃管	vitelline duct
卵黃腺	vitelline glands; vitellaria (in biology)
卷	to roll up; (fig.) to sweep up; to engulf; to drag into (a situation)
卷刃	curved blade
卷土重來	lit. to return in a swirl of dust (idiom)
卷地皮	to plunder the land and extort from the peasant; corrupt practice
卷子	test paper; examination paper
卷宗	file; folder; dossier
卷尺	tape measure (usu. retractable)
卷尾猴	white-headed capuchin (Cebus capucinus)
卷層雲	cirrostratus (cloud); also written 捲層雲|卷层云[juan3 ceng2 yun2]
卷巴	to bundle up
卷帙	book
卷帙浩繁	a huge amount (of books and papers)
卷心菜	cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata) (CL:棵[ke1])
卷煙	cigarette; cigar
卷筆刀	pencil sharpener (blade-only type)
卷紙	toilet roll
卷繞	to wind; to coil; to spool
卷羽鵜鶘	(bird species of China) Dalmatian pelican (Pelecanus crispus)
卷舌元音	retroflex vowel (e.g. the final r of putonghua)
卷裹	to wrap up; (fig.) to envelop; to swallow up
卷軸	scroll (book or painting)
卷雲	cirrus (cloud)
卷鬚	tendril
卸	to unload; to remove; to detach; to get rid of
卸下	to remove (a knapsack, harness, makeup etc); (fig.) to lay aside (a burden, responsibility, anxiety etc)
卸任	to leave office
卸套	to loosen a yoke; to remove harness (from beast of burden)
卸妝	to remove makeup; (old) to take off formal dress and ornaments
卸扣	shackle (U-shaped link)
卸磨殺驢	lit. to kill the donkey when the grinding is done (idiom)
卸職	to resign from office; to dismiss from office
卸肩兒	lit. a weight off one's shoulders; fig. to resign a post
卸裝	(of an actor) to remove makeup and costume
卸貨	to unload cargo; (fig.) to give birth to a baby
卸責	to avoid responsibility; to shift the responsibility onto others
卸載	to unload cargo; to uninstall (software)
卸除	to remove; to get rid of
卸頭	(of a woman) to take off one's head ornaments and jewels
卹	anxiety; sympathy; to sympathize
卻	but; yet; however
卻之不恭	to refuse would be impolite
卻倒	but on the contrary; but unexpectedly
卻才	just now
卻是	nevertheless; actually; the fact is ...
卻步	to step back
卻病	(literary) to ward off illness; to cure illness
卼	uncomfortable; unsteady
卽	promptly
卿	high ranking official (old); term of endearment between spouses (old)
卿卿我我	to bill and coo (idiom); to whisper sweet nothings to one another
厂	"cliff" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 27), occurring in 原, 历, 压 etc
厂字旁	name of "cliff" 厂 radical in simplified Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 27)
厄	distressed
厄什塔	Ørsta (city in Norway)
厄利垂亞	Eritrea (Tw)
厄勒布魯	Örebro (city in Sweden)
厄勒海峽	Øresund; The Sound (strait between Denmark and Sweden)
厄境	difficult situation
厄娃	Eve, the first woman (transcription used in Catholic versions of the Bible) (from Hebrew Ḥawwāh)
厄洛斯	Eros (Cupid)
厄爾尼諾	(meteorology) El Niño
厄爾尼諾現象	El Niño effect, equatorial climatic variation over the Pacific Ocean
厄爾布魯士	(Mount) Elbrus, the highest peak of the Caucasus mountains, southwest Russia
厄瓜多	Ecuador (Tw)
厄瓜多爾	Ecuador
厄立特里亞	Eritrea
厄運	bad luck; misfortune; adversity
厎	whetstone
厓	old form of 崖 (cliff) and 涯 (bank)
厔	river bent
厖	huge
厗	old stone or mineral, possibly related to antimony Sb 銻|锑[ti1]
厗奚	old place name (in Yan of Warring states, in modern Beijing city)
厘金	a form of transit taxation in China introduced to finance armies to suppress the Taiping Rebellion
厙	surname She
厚	thick; deep or profound; kind
厚古薄今	to revere the past and neglect the present (idiom)
厚嘴啄花鳥	(bird species of China) thick-billed flowerpecker (Dicaeum agile)
厚嘴綠鳩	(bird species of China) thick-billed green pigeon (Treron curvirostra)
厚嘴葦鶯	(bird species of China) thick-billed warbler (Arundinax aedon)
厚報	generous reward
厚實	thick; substantial; sturdy
厚底鞋	platform shoes
厚度	thickness
厚待	generous treatment
厚德載物	with great virtue one can take charge of the world (idiom)
厚愛	to show great affection and care
厚望	great hopes; great expectations
厚朴	magnolia bark (bark of Magnolia officinalis)
厚此薄彼	to favour one and discriminate against the other
厚死薄生	lit. to praise the dead and revile the living
厚生勞動省	Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (Japan)
厚生相	minister of health (of Japan, UK etc)
厚生省	Ministry of Health and Welfare (Japan) (replaced in 2001 by 厚生勞動省|厚生劳动省[Hou4 sheng1 Lao2 dong4 sheng3])
厚禮	generous gifts
厚積薄發	lit. to have accumulated knowledge and deliver it slowly (idiom)
厚臉皮	brazen; shameless; impudent
厚薄	to favor one and discriminate against the other (abbr. for 厚此薄彼[hou4 ci3 bo2 bi3])
厚薄規	feeler gauge
厚誼	generous friendship
厚賜	to reward generously; generous gift
厚道	kind and honest; generous; sincere
厚重	thick; heavy; thickset (body)
厚顏	shameless
厚顏無恥	shameless
厚養薄葬	generous care but a thrifty funeral
厜	a mountain peak
厝	to lay in place; to put
厝火積薪	lit. to put a fire under a pile of firewood (idiom)
厞	to hide; hideout
原	surname Yuan; (Japanese surname) Hara
原人	prehistoric man; primitive man
原件	the original; original document; master copy
原位	original position; (in) the same place; normal position
原住民	indigenous peoples; aborigine
原住民族	original inhabitant; indigenous people
原作	original works; original text; original author
原作版	Urtext edition
原來	original; former; originally; formerly; at first
原來如此	(idiom) so that's how it is; I see
原價	original price
原先	originally; original; former
原典版	(Tw) Urtext edition
原函數	antiderivative
原初	initial; original; originally
原則	principle; doctrine
原則上	in principle; generally
原則性	principled
原創	to create (an original work); (of a work) original
原創力	creativity
原創性	originality
原動力	motive force; prime mover; first cause
原原本本	from beginning to end; in its entirety; in accord with fact
原名	original name
原告	complainant; plaintiff
原味	authentic taste; plain cooked
原唱	to sing the original version of a song; original singer of a song
原因	cause; origin; root cause
原圖	original drawing, map or picture (as opposed to a copy or a modified version)
原地	(in) the original place; the place where one currently is
原地踏步	to mark time (military); to make no headway
原址	original location
原型	model; prototype; archetype
原始	first; original; primitive
原始人	primitive man; prehistoric human
原始林	old growth forest; primary forest; original forest cover
原始熱帶雨林	virgin tropical rainforest
原始碼	source code (computing) (Tw, HK)
原始社會	primitive society
原委	the whole story
原子	atom; atomic
原子半徑	atomic radius
原子反應堆	atomic reactor
原子堆	atomic pile (original form of nuclear reactor)
原子序數	atomic number
原子彈	atomic bomb; A-bomb
原子核	atomic nucleus
原子武器	atomic weapon
原子筆	(Tw, HK) ballpoint pen
原子能	atomic energy
原子能發電站	atomic power station
原子論	atomic theory
原子質量	atomic mass
原子量	atomic weight; atomic mass
原子鐘	atomic clock
原定	originally planned; originally determined
原封不動	(lit.) the original seal has not been disturbed (idiom)
原州區	Yuanzhou, a district of Guyuan City 固原市[Gu4 yuan2 Shi4], Ningxia
原平市	Yuanping, a county-level city in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
原形	original shape; true appearance (under the disguise); true character
原形畢露	original identity fully revealed (idiom); fig. to unmask and expose the whole truth
原意	original meaning; original intention
原擬	to initially plan to ...; to originally intend to ...
原文	original text
原料	raw material
原有	original; former
原木	logs
原本	originally; the original; original copy; original version
原材料	raw and semifinished materials
原核	prokaryotic (cell)
原核生物	prokaryote
原核生物界	Kingdom Monera; prokaryote
原核細胞	prokaryote; prokaryotic cell
原樣	original shape; the same as before
原水	raw water; unpurified water
原汁	juice (extracted from fresh fruit or vegetables)
原汁原味	original; authentic
原油	crude oil
原煤	raw coal
原爆點	ground zero
原牛	aurochs (Bos primigenius), extinct wild ox
原物料	raw material
原狀	previous condition; original state
原班人馬	original cast; former team
原理	principle; theory
原生	original; primary; native
原生動物	protozoan (bacteria)
原生家庭	family of origin
原生橄欖油	virgin olive oil
原生生物	protist
原生質	protoplasm
原產	original production; native to (of species)
原產國	country of origin
原產地	original source; place of origin; provenance
原田	Harada (Japanese surname)
原發性進行性失語	primary progressive aphasia (PPA), speech disorder (sometimes related to dementia)
原研藥	(pharmacology) innovator drug; originator drug (as opposed to a generic drug 仿製藥|仿制药[fang3 zhi4 yao4])
原稿	manuscript; original copy
原籍	ancestral home (town); birthplace
原纖維	(anatomy) fibril
原罪	original sin
原義	original meaning
原聲	acoustic (musical instrument)
原聲帶	original soundtrack (OST); soundtrack
原腎管	protonephridium (invertebrate anatomy)
原色	primary color
原著	original work (not translation or abridged)
原蘇聯	former Soviet Union
原處	original spot; previous place; where it was before
原蟲	protozoan
原被告	plaintiff and defendant; prosecution and defense (lawyers)
原裝	genuine
原語	source language (linguistics)
原諒	to excuse; to forgive; to pardon
原諒色	(slang) green
原貌	the original form
原道	original path; essay by Tang philosopher Han Yu 韓愈|韩愈[Han2 Yu4]
原配	first wife
原野	plain; open country
原陽縣	Yuanyang, a county in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
原電池	primary cell; non-rechargeable battery
原鴿	(bird species of China) rock dove (Columba livia)
原點	starting point; square one; (coordinate geometry) origin
原點矩	(statistics) moment
厥	to faint; to lose consciousness; his
厥功至偉	(idiom) to have made significant contributions to a project or cause
厪	hut
厭	(bound form) to loathe; to be fed up with
厭世	world-weary; pessimistic
厭倦	to be weary of; to be fed up with; to be bored with
厭女	misogyny; ideological or cultural hostility toward women
厭女症	misogyny (rhetorical term framing misogyny as a social or ideological pathology)
厭學	to be weary of studying; to have developed an aversion to studying
厭恨	to hate; to detest
厭惡	to loathe; to hate; disgusted with sth
厭戰	to be weary of war
厭棄	to spurn; to reject
厭氣	fed up with; loathsome
厭氧	anaerobic
厭氧菌	anaerobic bacteria
厭煩	bored; fed up with sth; sick of sth
厭膩	to detest; to abhor
厭薄	to despise; to look down upon sth
厭酷球孢子菌	Coccidioides immitis
厭食	anorexia
厭食症	anorexia
厲	strict; severe
厲害	(used to describe sb or sth that makes a very strong impression, whether favorable or unfavorable) terrible; intense; severe; devastating; amazing; awesome; outstanding
厲聲	in a sharp, forceful voice
厲行	to do (sth) with rigor; rigorously
厲行節約	to practice strict economy (idiom)
厲鬼	malicious spirit; devil
厴	operculum (Latin: little lid)
厹	to trample
去	to go; to go to (a place); (of a time etc) last
去世	to pass away; to die
去中心化	decentralization
去你的	Get along with you!
去信	to send a letter to; to write to
去光水	nail polish remover (Tw)
去其糟粕	to remove the dross; to discard the dregs
去冰	without ice; no ice (when ordering drinks)
去勢	to neuter; neutered
去取	to accept or reject
去取之間	undecided between taking and leaving
去向	direction in which sb or sth has gone; whereabouts
去向不明	missing; lost
去回票	round-trip ticket (Tw)
去國	to leave one's country
去垢劑	detergent
去年	last year
去年底	late last year; the end of last year
去往	(formal) to go to; to head for
去得	can go
去掉	to get rid of; to exclude; to eliminate
去暑	to beat the summer heat
去根	to cure completely
去歲	last year
去死	go to hell!; drop dead!
去氧核糖核酸	deoxyribonucleic acid; DNA
去氧麻黃鹼	methamphetamine
去污	to decontaminate; to clean
去污名化	to destigmatize
去火	to reduce internal heat (TCM)
去爪	to declaw (a cat etc)
去甲腎上腺素	(biochemistry) norepinephrine; noradrenaline
去留	going or staying
去皮	to peel; to remove the skin; to tare
去皮重	to tare
去程	outbound trip
去耦	to decouple
去聲	falling tone; fourth tone in modern Mandarin
去職	to leave office
去背	(Tw) to remove the background from an image
去臺	to go to Taiwan
去臺人員	those who left China for Taiwan before the founding of PRC in 1949
去蕪存菁	lit. to get rid of the weeds and keep the flowers
去處	place; destination
去路	the way one is following; outlet
去逝	to pass away; to die
去重	to remove duplicates
去除	to remove; to dislodge
去離子水	(chemistry) deionized water
去顫	to defibrillate
去骨	to debone; (of meat or fish) boneless
去魅	to become disenchanted
厾	to tap lightly
參	to take part in; to participate; to join
參加	to participate; to take part; to join
參加者	participant
參劾	to accuse; to impeach
參半	half; half and half; both ... and ...
參卡爾	Ivan Cankar (1876-1918), Slovenian modernist writer
參天	(of a tree etc) to reach up to the sky
參孫	Samson, biblical figure in the Book of Judges known for his strength and feats against the Philistines
參宿	Three Stars (Chinese constellation)
參宿七	Rigel (star)
參展	to exhibit at or take part in a trade show etc
參差	uneven; jagged; snaggletooth; ragged; serrated
參差不齊	(idiom) variable; uneven; irregular
參差錯落	uneven and jumbled (idiom); irregular and disorderly
參悟	to comprehend (the nature of things etc); to achieve enlightenment
參戰	to go to war; to engage in war
參拜	to formally call on; to worship (a God); to pay homage to sb
參政	to be involved in politics; participation in politics
參政權	suffrage; voting rights
參數	parameter
參會	to attend a conference or meeting
參校	to proofread
參演	to take part in a performance; to appear in (a movie etc)
參照	to consult a reference; to refer to (another document)
參照系	frame of reference; coordinate frame (math.)
參看	to consult for reference
參禪	to practice Chan Buddhist meditation; to practice Zen meditation
參考	consultation; reference; to consult
參考文獻	cited material; reference (to the literature); bibliography
參考書	reference book
參考材料	reference material; source documents
參考橢球體	reference ellipsoid (geodesy)
參考消息	Reference News (PRC limited-distribution daily newspaper)
參考系	frame of reference
參考資料	reference material; bibliography
參股	equity participation (finance)
參與	to participate (in sth)
參與者	participant
參茸	ginseng and young deer antler (used in TCM)
參薯	Dioscorea alata (Kinampay or aromatic purple yam, a sweet root crop)
參見	to refer to; compare (cf.); to pay respect to
參觀	to visit (a place, e.g. museum or factory); to tour; to look around
參訪團	delegation
參詳	to collate and examine critically (texts etc)
參謀	staff officer; to give advice
參謀總長	army Chief of Staff
參謀長	chief of staff
參謁	to visit; to pay one's respects to (a revered figure etc)
參議	consultant; adviser
參議員	senator
參議院	senate; upper chamber (of legislative assembly)
參賽	to compete; to take part in a competition
參賽者	competitor
參贊	to serve as an adviser; (diplomatic rank) attaché; counselor
參軍	to join the army
參透	to fully grasp; to penetrate
參選	to be a candidate in an election or other selection process
參選人	election participant; candidate
參選率	voter turnout
參酌	to consider (a matter); to deliberate
參量	parameter (math); quantity used as a parameter; modulus (math.)
參量空間	moduli space (math.); parameter space
參閱	to consult; to refer to; to read (instructions)
參院	abbr. for 參議院|参议院[can1 yi4 yuan4], senate
參雜	to mix
參雞湯	samgyetang, popular Korean chicken soup with ginseng, spices etc
又	(once) again; also; both... and...
又一次	yet again; once again; once more
又來了	Here we go again.
又及	P.S.; postscript
又名	also known as; alternative name; to also be called
又吵又鬧	to make a lot of noise; to be disorderly
又好氣又好笑	annoyed and amused in equal measure
又想當婊子又想立牌坊	lit. to lead the life of a whore but still want a monument put up to one's chastity (idiom)
又稱	also known as
又要馬兒跑，又要馬兒不吃草	lit. you can't expect the horse to run fast but not let it graze (idiom)
又雙叒叕	(Internet slang) time after time; again and again and again
叉	used in 劈叉[pi3 cha4]; used in 分叉[fen1 cha4]
叉乘	(math.) cross product (of two vectors)
叉勺	spork
叉圈	XO ("extra old"), grade of cognac quality
叉子	fork
叉尾太陽鳥	(bird species of China) fork-tailed sunbird (Aethopyga christinae)
叉尾鷗	(bird species of China) Sabine's gull (Xema sabini)
叉形	forked
叉架	trestle; X-shaped frame
叉燒	char siu; barbecued pork
叉燒包	steamed bun filled with Chinese barbecued pork
叉積	cross product (of vectors)
叉簧	switch hook (button or cradle of a telephone, whose function is to disconnect the call)
叉腰	to put one's hands on one's hips
叉車	forklift truck; pallet jack
叉頭	prong of a fork
及	and; to reach; up to
及其	(conjunction linking two nouns) and its ...; and their ...; and his ...; and her ...
及早	at the earliest possible time; as soon as possible
及時	timely; at the right time; promptly; without delay
及時性	timeliness; promptness
及時行樂	to enjoy the present (idiom); to live happily with no thought for the future
及時雨	timely rain; (fig.) timely assistance; timely help
及格	to pass an exam or a test; to meet a minimum standard
及格線	passing line or score (in an examination)
及物	transitive (grammar)
及物動詞	transitive verb
及笄	to reach marriageable age (a girl's fifteenth birthday)
及第	to pass an imperial examination
及耳	(loanword) gill (unit)
及至	by the time that
及鋒而試	lit. to reach the tip and try (idiom); to have a go when at one's peak
友	friend
友人	friend
友商	(slang) business competitor; industry peer
友善	friendly
友好	friendly; amicable; close friend
友好區	Youhao, a district of Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
友悌	brotherly bond
友情	friendly feelings; friendship
友愛	friendly affection; fraternal love
友盡	(Internet slang) end of friendship; friendship over!
友誼	companionship; fellowship; friendship
友誼商店	Friendship Store, PRC state-run store originally intended for foreigners, diplomats etc, specializing in selling imported Western goods and quality Chinese crafts
友誼地久天長	Auld Lang Syne, Scottish song with lyrics by Robert Burns 羅伯特·伯恩斯|罗伯特·伯恩斯[Luo2 bo2 te4 · Bo2 en1 si1], sung to mark the start of a new year or as a farewell
友誼峰	Friendship Peak or Khüiten Peak (4,356 m), the highest peak of the Altai mountains
友誼縣	Youyi, a county in Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
友誼賽	friendly match; friendly competition
友軍	allied forces; friendly troops
友邦	friendly state; ally
友邦保險	AIA Group Limited, insurance company
友鄰	friendly neighbor; (of a military unit etc) neighboring and allied
反	contrary; in reverse; inside out or upside down
反串	(Chinese opera) to play a role outside of one's specialty
反之	on the other hand...; conversely...
反之亦然	vice versa
反人道罪	a crime against humanity
反人道罪行	crime against humanity
反人類	inhuman
反人類罪	crimes against humanity
反作用	(physics) reaction; (fig.) backlash; unintended consequence
反作用力	(physics) reaction force
反例	counterexample
反倒	(coll.) but on the contrary; but instead
反側	to toss and turn
反傳算法	back propagation algorithm
反傾銷	anti-dumping
反光	to reflect light
反光鏡	reflector (typically concave, as in a torch)
反光面	reflecting surface
反共	anti-communist
反其道而行之	to do the very opposite; to act in a diametrically opposite way
反函數	inverse function (math.)
反分裂法	anti-secession law of 2005 (whereby PRC claims the right to invade Taiwan)
反切	(historical) method of indicating a Chinese character's pronunciation using two other characters, the first supplying the initial and the second the final and tone
反制	to take countermeasures against; to hit back; to counter
反剪	with hands behind one's back; trussed
反動	reaction; reactionary
反動分子	reactionaries; reactionary elements
反動勢力	reactionary forces (esp. in Marxist rhetoric)
反動派	reactionaries
反反復復	repeatedly; time and time again
反叛	to rebel; to revolt
反叛分子	rebel; insurgent
反口	to correct oneself; to renege; to break one's word
反右	anti-rightist; abbr. for 反右派鬥爭|反右派斗争[Fan3 you4 pai4 Dou4 zheng1]
反右派鬥爭	Anti-Rightist Movement, Mao's purge of "rightists" after the Hundred Flowers Campaign ended in 1957
反右運動	Anti-Rightist Movement, Mao's purge of "rightists" after the Hundred Flowers Campaign ended in 1957
反向	opposite direction; reverse
反咬一口	to make a false countercharge
反哺	to support one's parents in their old age; to show filial piety
反唇相譏	(idiom) to answer back sarcastically; to retort
反問	to ask (a question) in reply; to answer a question with a question
反問句	rhetorical question
反問語氣	tone of one's voice when asking a rhetorical question
反嘴	to answer back; to contradict; to renege
反嘴鷸	(bird species of China) pied avocet (Recurvirostra avosetta)
反噬	to backfire on; to rebound on
反圍剿	communist attack against the Guomindang's encircle and annihilate campaign
反坐	to sentence the accuser (and free the falsely accused defendant)
反坦克	anti-tank
反坫	earthern goblet stand also known as 垿[xu4] (old)
反基督	the anti-Christ
反壟斷	to break up or prevent monopolies; anti-monopoly; antitrust
反壟斷法	antitrust legislation
反季	off-season; out-of-season
反季節	off-season; out-of-season
反安慰劑	nocebo
反客為主	lit. the guest acts as host (idiom); fig. to turn from passive to active behavior
反密碼子	(biochemistry) anticodon
反射	to reflect; reflection (from a mirror etc)
反射作用	reflex; reflection
反射光	to reflect light; reflection; reflected light
反射動作	reflex action
反射區治療	reflexology (alternative medicine)
反射弧	reflex arc
反射星雲	reflection nebula
反射望遠鏡	reflecting telescope
反射療法	reflexology (alternative medicine)
反射鏡	reflector
反射面	reflecting surface
反對	to oppose; to be against; to object to
反對派	opposition faction
反對票	dissenting vote
反對黨	opposition (political) party
反導	anti-missile
反導導彈	anti-missile missile (such as the Patriot Missile)
反導彈	anti-missile
反導系統	anti-missile system; missile defense system
反差	contrast; discrepancy
反帝	anti-imperialist
反常	unusual; abnormal
反式	trans- (isomer) (chemistry)
反式脂肪	trans fat; trans-isomer fatty acid
反彈	to bounce; to bounce back; to boomerang
反彈導彈	antimissile missile
反思	to think back over sth; to review; to revisit
反恐	anti-terrorism; to fight against terrorism
反恐戰爭	war on terrorism
反悔	to renege; to go back (on a deal); to back out (of a promise)
反感	to be disgusted with; to dislike; bad reaction
反應	to react; to respond; reaction
反應堆	reactor
反應堆芯	reactor core
反應式	equation of a chemical reaction
反應時	response time
反應時間	(technology) response time
反應爐	(nuclear etc) reactor
反應鍋	(chemical engineering) reaction vessel; reaction tank
反戰	anti-war
反手	to turn a hand over; to put one's hand behind one's back
反托拉斯	antitrust (loanword)
反批評	countercriticism
反抗	to resist; to rebel
反抗者	rebel
反掌	lit. to turn over one's palm; fig. everything is going very well.
反接	trussed; with hands tied behind the back
反撞	recoil (of a gun)
反撲	to counterattack; to come back after a defeat; to retrieve lost ground
反擊	to strike back; to beat back; to counterattack
反攻	to counterattack; a counteroffensive
反政府	anti-government (protest)
反敗為勝	to turn defeat into victory (idiom); to turn the tide
反散射	backscatter
反文旁	(colloquial) grapheme 攵 (variant form of Kangxi radical 66, 攴)
反斜杠	backslash (computing)
反斜線	backslash (computing); reversed diagonal
反方	the side opposed to the proposition (in a formal debate)
反日	anti-Japan
反映	to mirror; to reflect; mirror image
反映論	theory of reflection (in dialectic materialism), i.e. every perception reflects physical reality
反時勢	unconventional
反時針	counterclockwise
反智	anti-intellectual
反智主義	anti-intellectualism
反智論	anti-intellectualism
反曲弓	(archery) recurve bow
反杜林論	Anti-Dühring, book by Friedrich Engels 恩格斯[En1 ge2 si1]
反核	anti-nuclear (e.g. protest)
反正	anyway; in any case; to come over from the enemy's side
反正一樣	whether it's right or wrong doesn't make a lot of difference
反殺	to respond to an assault by killing one's assailant
反比	inversely proportional; inverse ratio
反氣旋	anticyclone
反水	to turn traitor; to defect
反求諸己	to seek the cause in oneself rather than sb else
反污	to accuse the victim (while being the guilty party)
反派	villain (of a drama etc)
反清	anti-Qing
反滲透	anti-infiltration (measures taken against subversive external forces)
反滲透法	(Tw) Anti-infiltration Act (2020), which regulates the influence of entities deemed foreign hostile forces
反演	inversion (geometry)
反潛	anti-submarine; antisubmarine
反烏托邦	dystopia
反照	reflection
反照率	reflectivity; albedo
反物質	antimatter
反特	to thwart enemy espionage; to engage in counterespionage
反猶太主義	antisemitism
反生物戰	biological (warfare) defense
反用換流器	inverter, device that converts AC electricity to DC and vice versa
反白	reverse type (white on black); reversed-out (graphics)
反目	to quarrel; to fall out with sb
反目成仇	(idiom) to fall out with sb; to become enemies
反相	(a person's) rebellious appearance; signs of an impending rebellion
反相器	(electronics) inverter; NOT gate
反省	to reflect upon oneself; to examine one's conscience
反知識	anti-intellectual
反社會	antisocial (behavior)
反社會行為	antisocial behavior
反科學	anti-science; anti-scientific
反空降	anti-aircraft defense
反粒子	antiparticle (physics)
反美	anti-American
反美是工作赴美是生活	being anti-American is the job, but life is in America (jocular comment made about public figures who are brazenly xenophobic but whose family live abroad)
反義	antonymous; (genetic) antisense
反義字	character with opposite meaning; antonym; opposite characters
反義詞	antonym
反習	anti-Xi (Jinping)
反而	on the contrary; instead
反聖嬰	La Niña (counterpart of El Niño in meteorology)
反胃	retching; vomiting
反腐	anti-corruption
反腐倡廉	to fight corruption and advocate probity
反腐敗	to oppose corruption; anti-graft (measures, policy etc)
反臉無情	to turn one's face against sb and show no mercy (idiom); to turn against a friend
反興奮劑	(sports) anti-doping
反艦導彈	anti-ship missile
反艦艇	anti-ship
反芻	to ruminate; to chew the cud
反芻動物	ruminant
反英	anti-English
反英雄	antihero
反華	anti-Chinese
反衝	recoil (of a gun); to bounce back; backlash
反衝力	backlash; recoil; reactive force
反袁	opposing Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3] in National Protection War 護國戰爭|护国战争[Hu4 guo2 Zhan4 zheng1] 1915–1916
反袁運動	anti-Yuan movement, opposing Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3] in National Protection War 護國戰爭|护国战争[Hu4 guo2 Zhan4 zheng1] 1915-1916
反袁鬥爭	war of 1915 against Yuan Shikai and for the Republic
反裘負芻	lit. to wear one's coat inside out and carry firewood on one's back (idiom)
反襯	to serve as a foil; to highlight through contrast
反覆	repeatedly; over and over; to upend
反覆無常	unstable; erratic; changeable
反觀	by contrast; but as for this...; viewed from another angle
反角	bad guy (in a story); villain
反訴	counterclaim; countercharge (law)
反訴狀	counterclaim
反詩	verse criticizing officials; satirical verse
反詰	to ask (a question) in reply; to answer a question with a question
反詰問	to cross-examine
反話	irony; ironic remark
反語	irony
反誣	to make a false countercharge
反諷	irony; to satirize
反證	disproof; rebuttal; reductio ad absurdum
反證法	reductio ad absurdum
反貪	anti-corruption (policy)
反貪污	anticorruption
反貪腐	anti-corruption
反賊	(imperial China) rebel; traitor
反赤道流	equatorial counter current
反走私	to oppose smuggling; anti-contraband (measures, policy etc)
反超	to reverse (the score); to pull off a comeback; to take the lead
反身	to turn around
反身代詞	reflexive pronoun
反躬自問	introspection; to ask oneself
反轉	reversal; inversion; to reverse
反轉錄	(molecular biology) reverse transcription
反轉錄病毒	retrovirus
反過來	conversely; in reverse order; in an opposite direction
反過來說	on the other hand
反酷刑折磨公約	UN convention against torture and cruel treatment (ratified by PRC in 1988)
反酸	acid reflux; regurgitation
反鋸齒	anti-aliasing
反錄病毒	reverse transcription virus; retrovirus
反鎖	locked in (with the door locked from the outside)
反鏟	backhoe
反間	to feed the enemy misinformation through their own spies
反間計	stratagem of sowing dissension
反間諜	counterintelligence; protection against espionage
反電子	positron; also called 正電子|正电子[zheng4 dian4 zi3]
反面	reverse side; backside; the other side (of a problem etc)
反面人物	negative character; bad guy (in a story)
反面教員	(PRC) teacher by negative example
反面教材	negative example; sth that teaches one what not to do
反革命	counterrevolutionary
反革命宣傳煽動罪	the crime of instigating counterrevolutionary propaganda
反響	repercussions; reaction; echo
反顧	to glance back; (fig.) to regret; to have second thoughts about sth
反饋	to send back information; feedback
反駁	to retort; to refute
反骨	(physiognomy) protruding bone at the back of the head, regarded as a sign of a renegade nature
反高潮	anticlimax
反黨	anti-party
叒	obedient; ancient mythical tree
叔	uncle; father's younger brother; husband's younger brother
叔丈人	wife's uncle
叔丈母	wife's aunt
叔伯	(of cousins) descending from the same grandfather or great-grandfather
叔公	great uncle; grandfather's younger brother
叔叔	father's younger brother; paternal uncle
叔娘	(dialect) wife of father's younger brother; aunt
叔婆	aunt by marriage; husband's aunt
叔子	brother-in-law; husband's younger brother
叔岳	wife's uncle
叔本華	Arthur Schopenhauer (1788-1860), German post-Kantian philosopher
叔母	aunt; wife of father's younger brother
叔父	father's younger brother; uncle
叔祖	grandfather's younger brother
叔祖母	wife of paternal grandfather's younger brother
叕	to join together; to lack; narrow and shallow
取	to take; to get; to choose
取之不盡，用之不竭	limitless supply (of); inexhaustible
取代	to replace; to supersede; to supplant
取代基	(chemistry) substituent
取件	to pick up a pre-arranged item (e.g. package, document, ticket, reserved book) from a delivery point or collection location
取保	(law) to get sb to bail one out (from jail)
取保候審	release from custody, subject to provision of a surety, pending investigation (PRC)
取保釋放	to be released on bail (law)
取信	to win the trust of
取其精華	to take the best; to absorb the essence
取其精華，去其糟粕	take the cream, discard the dross (political and educational slogan)
取出	to take out; to extract; to draw out
取勝	to score a victory; to prevail over one's opponents
取名	to name; to be named; to christen
取向	orientation; direction
取回	to retrieve
取巧	quick fix; opportune short cut (around a difficulty)
取得	to acquire; to get; to obtain
取得一致	to reach a consensus
取得勝利	to prevail; to achieve victory; to be victorious
取悅	to try to please
取捨	to select; to make one's choice; to decide what to accept and what to reject
取景	to select a scene (for filming, sketching etc)
取景器	viewfinder (of a camera etc)
取景框	rectangular frame used to view a scene (made out of cardboard etc, or formed by the thumbs and forefingers)
取暖	to warm oneself (by a fire, heater etc)
取材	to collect material
取樂	to find amusement; to amuse oneself
取模	to take an impression (dentistry etc)
取樣	to take a sample
取款	to withdraw money from a bank
取款機	ATM
取水	water intake; to obtain water (from a well etc)
取決	(usually followed by 於|于[yu2]) to hinge on; to be decided by
取決於	to hinge on; to be decided by; to depend on
取消	to cancel; to call off; to revoke; to rescind
取消關注	to unfollow
取火	to make fire
取燈兒	(dialect) match (for lighting fire)
取現	to withdraw money
取用	to access; to make use of
取笑	to tease; to make fun of
取經	to journey to India on a quest for the Buddhist scriptures
取締	to suppress; to crack down on; to prohibit
取而代之	(idiom) to replace; to supersede; to take its (or her etc) place
取證	to collect evidence
取走	to remove; to take away
取道	via; by way of; en route to
取銀	to take silver; to come second in a competition
取錢	to withdraw money
取長補短	lit. use others' strengths to make up for one's weak points (idiom from Mencius)
取關	to unfollow (on social media etc) (abbr. for 取消關注|取消关注[qu3 xiao1 guan1 zhu4])
取鬧	to make trouble; to make fun of
受	to receive; to accept; to suffer
受不了	unbearable; unable to endure; can't stand
受主	acceptor (semiconductor)
受事	object (of a transitive verb); to receive a task
受享	to enjoy
受任	to appoint; to be appointed
受保人	the insured person; the person covered by an insurance policy
受俸	to receive an official's salary
受傷	to sustain injuries; wounded (in an accident etc); harmed
受僱	to be employed; to be hired; hired
受刑	beaten; tortured; executed
受刑人	person being executed; victim of corporal punishment
受到	to receive (praise, an education, punishment etc); to be ...ed (praised, educated, punished etc)
受制	to be controlled (by sb); to suffer under a yoke
受取	to accept; to receive
受命	ordained or appointed to a post; to benefit from counsel
受命於天	to be emperor by the grace of heaven; to have the mandate of heaven
受困	trapped; stranded
受夠	to have had enough of; to be fed up with; to have had one's fill of
受夾板氣	to be attacked by both sides in a quarrel
受孕	to become pregnant; to conceive
受害	to suffer damage, injury etc; damaged; injured
受害人	victim
受害者	casualty; victim; those injured and wounded
受寒	affected by cold; to catch cold
受審	to stand trial; to be on trial (for a crime)
受寵	to receive favor (from superior); favored; pampered
受寵若驚	overwhelmed by favor from superior (humble expr.)
受封	to receive fief and title; to be enfeoffed
受得了	to put up with; to endure
受性	inborn (ability, defect)
受惠	to benefit; favored
受戒	to take oaths as a monk (Buddhism); to take orders
受持	to accept and maintain faith (Buddhism)
受挫	thwarted; obstructed; setback
受控	to be controlled
受損	to suffer damage
受支配	subject to (foreign domination, emotions etc)
受教	to receive instruction; to benefit from advice
受暑	to suffer heatstroke; to suffer heat exhaustion
受格	objective
受業	to study; to learn from a master
受權	authorized; entrusted (with authority)
受歡迎	to be popular; to be well-liked; to be warmly received
受死	to submit to death; prepare to die!; meet your doom!
受氣	to be mistreated; to be bullied
受氣包	(fig.) punching bag
受法律保護權	right to protection by law (law)
受洗	to receive baptism; baptized
受洗命名	to be christened
受浸	to be baptized
受涼	to catch cold
受潮	to get moist; to get damp (due to humidity, seepage etc)
受災	disaster-stricken; to be hit by a natural calamity
受熱	heated; sunstroke
受理	to accept to hear a case; to handle (a service)
受用	to enjoy; to reap the benefits (of sth)
受病	to fall ill
受癟	discomfited; to get into a mess
受益	to benefit from; profit
受益人	beneficiary
受益匪淺	to benefit (from)
受盡	to suffer enough from; to suffer all kinds of; to have one's fill of
受看	good-looking
受眾	recipients (of information, media etc); audience
受知	recognized (for one's talents)
受禪	to accept abdication
受禮	to accept a gift; to acknowledge greetings
受窘	embarrassed; bothered; in an awkward position
受窮	poor
受精	to be fertilized; to be inseminated
受精卵	fertilized ovum
受精囊	seminal receptacle
受約束	restricted; constrained
受納	to accept; to receive (tribute)
受累	to get dragged into; to get involved (on sb else's account)
受罪	to endure; to suffer; hardships
受聘	hired (for employment); invited (e.g. to lecture)
受聘於	to be employed at
受聽	nice to hear; worth listening to
受胎	to become pregnant; to conceive; impregnated
受膏	to be anointed
受苦	to suffer hardship
受虐	to suffer sexual abuse; masochism
受虐狂	masochism; masochist
受訓	to receive training
受託	to be entrusted; to be commissioned
受託人	(law) trustee
受託者	trustee
受訪	to give an interview; to be interviewed
受訪者	participant in a survey; interviewee; respondent
受詞	object (linguistics)
受試者	subject (in an experiment); participant (in a clinical trial etc)
受賄	to accept a bribe
受賞	to receive a prize
受辱	insulted; humiliated; disgraced
受追捧	to be eagerly sought after
受過	to take the blame (for sb else)
受閱	to be reviewed (at a military review etc)
受阻	to be obstructed; to be hindered
受降	to accept surrender
受降儀式	a surrender ceremony
受限	to be limited; to be restricted; to be constrained
受難	to suffer a calamity; to suffer (e.g. under torture); distress
受難日	Good Friday
受難紀念	memorial
受難者	sufferer; a victim of a calamity; a person in distress
受電弓	pantograph (transportation)
受領	to receive
受騙	to be cheated; to be taken in; to be hoodwinked
受驚	startled
受體	receptor (biochemistry); acceptor (semiconductors)
受體拮抗劑	receptor antagonist
叚	to borrow (variant of 假[jia3])
叛	to betray; to rebel; to revolt
叛亂	armed rebellion
叛亂罪	the crime of armed rebellion
叛匪	rebel bandit
叛國	treason
叛國罪	the crime of treason
叛徒	traitor; turncoat; rebel
叛教	apostasy
叛變	to defect; to betray; to mutiny
叛賊	renegade; traitor
叛賣	to betray
叛軍	rebel army
叛逃	to defect
叛逆	to rebel; to revolt; a rebel
叛逆者	traitor
叛離	to betray; to desert; to defect from
叛黨	to betray one's party; to defect (from the communist party)
叟	old gentleman; old man
叢	cluster; collection; collection of books
叢冢	mass grave; cluster of graves
叢書	a series of books; a collection of books
叢林	jungle; thicket; forest
叢林法則	the law of the jungle
叢生	growing as a thicket; overgrown
叢臺區	Congtai, a district of Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
叢談	discussion; forum
叢集	to crowd together; to pile up; to cluster; (book) collection; series
口	mouth
口不應心	to say one thing but mean another; to dissimulate
口不擇言	to speak incoherently; to ramble; to talk irresponsibly
口乾舌燥	lit. dry mouth and tongue (idiom); to talk too much
口交	oral sex
口令	oral command; a word of command (used in drilling troops or gymnasts)
口供	oral confession (as opposed to 筆供|笔供[bi3 gong4]); statement
口信	oral message
口傳	to convey orally; to pass on by word of mouth (instructions, information, stories etc)
口出狂言	to speak conceited nonsense; to come out with arrogant claptrap
口北	the area north of the Great Wall
口口聲聲	to keep on saying (idiom); to repeat over and over again
口吃	to stammer; to stutter; Taiwan pr. [kou3ji2]
口吸盤	oral sucker (e.g. on bloodsucking parasite)
口吻	tone of voice; connotation in intonation; accent (regional etc)
口味	a person's preferences; tastes (in food); flavor
口哨	whistle
口嗨	(Internet slang) to talk a big game; to be all talk and no action
口器	mouthparts (of an arthropod)
口嚼酒	alcoholic drink made by fermenting chewed rice
口型	mouth shape when speaking or singing
口嫌體正直	your lips say one thing, but your body language reveals what you really think (borrowed from Japanese)
口嫌體直	your lips say one thing, but your body language reveals what you really think (four-character version of 口嫌體正直|口嫌体正直[kou3 xian2 ti3 zheng4 zhi2])
口子	hole; opening; cut
口實	food; salary (old); a pretext
口射	to ejaculate inside sb's mouth
口岸	a port for external trade
口弦	Jew's harp
口彩	complimentary remarks; well-wishing
口徑	bore; caliber; diameter; aperture
口德	propriety in speech
口感	mouthfeel; texture (of food)
口才	eloquence
口技	beat boxing; vocal mimicry; ventriloquism
口播	(broadcasting) to speak to the audience
口是心非	duplicity; hypocrisy (idiom)
口服	to take medicine orally; oral (contraceptive etc)
口服液	(pharmacology) oral liquid
口服補液鹽	oral rehydration salts (ORS)
口條	(ox etc) tongue (as food); (dialect) elocution; articulation
口欲期	oral stage (psychology)
口氣	tone of voice; the way one speaks; manner of expression
口水	saliva
口水仗	dispute; spat; shouting match
口水佬	talkative person (Cantonese)
口水戰	war of words
口水歌	bubblegum pop song; cover song
口水雞	steamed chicken with chili sauce
口沫	spittle; saliva
口沫橫飛	to speak vehemently; to express oneself with great passion
口活	oral sex
口淫	oral sex; fellatio
口渴	thirsty
口無擇言	to say not a word that is not appropriate (idiom)
口無遮攔	to blab; to shoot one's mouth off; to commit a gaffe
口爆	(slang) to ejaculate inside sb's mouth
口球	(BDSM) ball gag
口琴	harmonica
口甜	soft-spoken; affable; full of honeyed words
口瘡	mouth ulcer
口白	narrator; spoken parts in an opera
口皮	(coll.) lip
口眼歪斜	facial nerve paralysis
口碑	public praise; public reputation; commonly held opinions
口碑流傳	widely praised (idiom); with an extensive public reputation
口碑載道	lit. praise fills the roads (idiom); praise everywhere
口福	happy knack for chancing upon fine food
口稱	to speak; to say
口簧	Jew's harp
口簧琴	Jew's harp
口糊	indistinct in one's speech; defective in one's pronunciation
口糧	ration
口紅	lipstick
口紅膠	(Tw) glue stick
口絡	muzzle (over a dog's mouth)
口罩	mask (surgical etc)
口腔	oral cavity
口腔潰瘍	canker sore
口腔炎	stomatitis; ulceration of oral cavity
口腹	(fig.) food
口腹之慾	desire for good food
口臭	bad breath; halitosis
口舌	dispute or misunderstanding caused by gossip; to talk sb round
口若懸河	mouth like a torrent (idiom); eloquent; glib
口蘑	Saint George's mushroom (Tricholoma mongplicum)
口號	slogan; catchphrase
口蜜腹劍	lit. honeyed words, a sword in the belly (idiom); fig. hypocritical and murderous
口袋	pocket; bag; sack
口袋妖怪	Pokémon (Japanese media franchise)
口袋罪	vaguely defined offense that can be broadly interpreted and potentially abused by law enforcement
口袋餅	pita bread
口角	altercation; wrangle; angry argument
口角戰	war of words
口訣	mnemonic chant
口訥	(literary) inarticulate
口試	oral examination; oral test
口誅筆伐	to condemn in speech and in writing (idiom)
口語	colloquial speech; spoken language; vernacular language
口語溝通	oral communication (psychology)
口誤	to misspeak; to get one's words mixed up; a slip of the tongue
口說無憑	(idiom) you can't rely on a verbal agreement; just because sb says sth, doesn't mean it's true
口譯	interpreting
口譯員	interpreter; oral translator
口足目	Stomatopoda, order of marine crustaceans (whose members are called mantis shrimps)
口蹄疫	foot-and-mouth disease (FMD); aphthous fever
口述	to dictate; to recount orally
口鋒	manner of speech; tone of voice
口音	(linguistics) oral speech sounds
口頭	oral; verbal
口頭禪	Zen saying repeated as cant
口頭語	pet phrase; regularly used expression; manner of speaking
口風	meaning behind the words; what sb really means to say
口風琴	melodica
口香糖	chewing gum
口鼻	mouth and nose; (an animal's) snout
口齒	mouth and teeth; enunciation; to articulate
口齒不清	to lisp; unclear articulation; inarticulate
口齒伶俐	eloquent and fluent speaker (idiom); grandiloquence
口齒清楚	clear diction; clear articulation
口齒生香	eloquence that generates perfume (idiom); profound and significant text
古	ancient; old; paleo-
古丈縣	Guzhang, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
古井無波	(idiom) calm and collected; unaffected by external influences
古交市	Gujiao, a county-level city in Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
古人	people of ancient times; the ancients
古人類	ancient human species such as Homo erectus and Homo neanderthalensis
古人類學	paleoanthropology
古今	then and now; ancient and modern
古今中外	at all times and in all places (idiom)
古今小說	Stories Old and New by Feng Menglong 馮夢龍|冯梦龙[Feng2 Meng4 long2], collection of late Ming baihua 白話|白话[bai2 hua4] tales published in 1620
古今韻會舉要	"Summary of the Collection of Rhymes Old and New", supplemented and annotated Yuan dynasty version of the no-longer-extant late Song or early Yuan "Collection of Rhymes Old and New" 古今韻會|古今韵会
古代	ancient times
古代史	ancient history
古來	since ancient times; it has ever been the case that
古傑拉爾	(name) Gujral
古傑拉特邦	Gujarat, Indian state
古典	classical
古典文學	classical literature
古典樂	classical music (mainly Western)
古典派	classicists
古典語言	classical language
古典音樂	classical music
古冶區	Guye, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
古剎	old Buddhist temple
古北界	Palearctic realm
古史	ancient history
古吉拉特	Gujarat, state in west India
古吉拉特邦	Gujarat, state in west India
古國	ancient country
古地磁	paleomagnetism
古城	ancient city
古城區	Gucheng, a district of Lijiang City 麗江市|丽江市[Li4 jiang1 Shi4], Yunnan
古堡	ancient castle
古塔區	Guta, a district of Jinzhou City 錦州市|锦州市[Jin3 zhou1 Shi4], Liaoning
古墓	old tomb (archaeology)
古墓葬群	(archeology) burial complex
古墓麗影	Tomb Raider (computer game)
古奇	Gucci (brand)
古字	ancient character; archaic form of a Chinese character
古宅	former residence
古巴	Cuba
古巴比倫	ancient Babylon
古希臘	ancient Greece
古希臘語	Ancient Greek (language)
古幣	old coin
古建	ancient architecture (abbr. for 古代建築|古代建筑[gu3 dai4 jian4 zhu4])
古往今來	since ancient times; since times immemorial
古怪	strange; weird; eccentric
古惑仔	gangster; hooligan; problem youth
古拉格	gulag (loanword)
古文	old language; the Classics
古文字學	paleography
古文明	ancient civilization
古文觀止	Guwen Guanzhi, an anthology of essays written in Literary Chinese, compiled and edited by Wu Chucai and Wu Diaohou of Qing dynasty
古文運動	cultural movement aspiring to study and emulate classic works, at different periods of history, esp. Tang and Song
古斯塔夫·多雷	Gustave Dore (1832-1883), French artist and sculptor
古斯塔夫·施特雷澤曼	Gustav Stresemann (Chancellor and Foreign Minister during the Weimar Republic)
古新世	Palaeocene (geological epoch from 65m-55m years ago)
古新統	Palaeocene system (geology)
古方	ancient prescription
古早	(Tw) old times; former times
古早味	(Tw) traditional style; old-fashioned feel; flavor of yesteryear
古昔	(literary) ancient times; in olden days
古時	antiquity
古時候	in ancient times; in olden days
古晉	Kuching (city in Malaysia)
古書	ancient book; old book
古板	outmoded; old-fashioned; inflexible
古柯	(botany) coca (source of cocaine)
古柯樹	coca plant (source of cocaine)
古柯鹼	(loanword) cocaine
古根海姆	Guggenheim (name)
古樸	simple and unadorned (of art, architecture etc)
古樹	tree that is over 100 years old
古氣候學	paleoclimatology
古法	traditional method; traditional technique
古波	Gubo (a personal name)
古浪縣	Gulang, a county in Wuwei City 武威市[Wu3 wei1 Shi4], Gansu
古爾班通古特沙漠	Gurbantunggut Desert, northern Xinjiang
古爾邦節	(Islam) Eid al-Adha, the Festival of Sacrifice (Qurban), celebrated on the 10th day of Dhu al-Hijjah, the 12th month of the Islamic calendar
古物	antique
古特雷斯	António Guterres (1949-), secretary-general of the United Nations (2017-), prime minister of Portugal (1995-2002)
古玩	antique; curio
古玩店	antique store
古琴	guqin or qin, a long zither with seven strings, plucked with the fingers
古生代	Paleozoic, geological era 545-250m years ago, covering Cambrian 寒武紀|寒武纪, Ordovician 奧陶紀|奥陶纪, Silurian 志留紀|志留纪, Devonian 泥盆紀|泥盆纪, Carboniferous 石炭紀|石炭纪, Permian 二疊紀|二叠纪
古生物	organism from the geological past
古生物學	palaeontology
古生物學家	paleontologist; paleobiologist
古田縣	Gutian, a county in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
古登堡	(name) Gutenberg
古盜鳥	Archaeoraptor (bird-like dinosaur)
古硯	antique ink slab
古稀	seventy years old
古箏	guzheng (large zither with 13 to 25 strings, developed from the guqin 古琴[gu3 qin2] during Tang and Song times)
古籍	ancient text; antique books
古縣	Gu County or Guxian, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
古縴道	Old Towpath along the Grand Canal in Zhejiang Province
古羅馬	ancient Rome
古義	ancient meaning; original or etymological meaning of a word
古老	ancient; old; age-old
古老肉	sweet and sour pork; also written 咕嚕肉|咕噜肉[gu1 lu1 rou4]
古脊椎動物學	vertebrate paleontology
古舊	archaic
古色古香	interesting and appealing (of old locations, objects etc)
古董	curio; antique
古董灘	Gudong desert or Antiques desert at Han dynasty Yangguan pass 陽關|阳关[Yang2 guan1], named after many Han dynasty archaeological discoveries
古藺縣	Gulin, a county in Luzhou City 瀘州市|泸州市[Lu2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
古蘭經	the Koran
古裝	ancient costume; period costume (in movies etc)
古裝劇	costume drama
古訓	old adage; ancient teaching
古詩	old verse; Classical Chinese poem
古語	ancient language; old expression
古諺	ancient proverb; old saying
古諾	Gounod (name)
古蹟	place of historic interest; historical site
古道	ancient road; precepts of the antiquity
古都	ancient capital
古里古怪	quaint; odd and picturesque; weird and wonderful
古銅色	bronze color
古銅色卷尾	(bird species of China) bronzed drongo (Dicrurus aeneus)
古雅典	ancient Athens
古靈精怪	(idiom) mischievously clever; whimsically quirky
古音	ancient (esp. pre-Qin) pronunciation of a Chinese character
古風	old style; old custom
古馳	Gucci (brand)
古騰堡計劃	Project Gutenberg
古體詩	a pre-Tang Dynasty genre of poetry, relatively free in form, usually having four, five, six or seven characters per line
古魯	guru (loanword)
古魯魯	(onom.) the sound of a rolling object
古麗	Gül (common female Uyghur name)
古龍	Gu Long (1938-1985), Taiwanese wuxia novelist and screenwriter
古龍水	(loanword) cologne
句	sentence; clause; phrase
句型	sentence pattern (in grammar)
句子	sentence
句容市	Jurong, a county-level city in Zhenjiang City 鎮江市|镇江市[Zhen4 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangsu
句式	sentence pattern; sentence structure; syntax
句數	number of sentences; number of lines (in verse etc)
句法	syntax
句法分析	syntactic analysis
句群	discourse; group of sentences with clear meaning; narrative
句號	full stop; period (punct.)
句讀	pausing at the end of a phrase or sentence (in former times, before punctuation marks were used)
句逗	punctuation of a sentence (in former times, before punctuation marks were used)
句首	start of phrase or sentence
句驪河	pre-Han name of Liao River 遼河|辽河[Liao2 He2]
句點	period (punctuation); (fig.) endpoint; finish
另	other; another; separate
另一	another ...; the other ...
另一半	other half; (fig.) spouse; one's better half
另一方面	on the other hand; another aspect
另冊	the Other List (Qing dynasty register of outlaws)
另加	to add to; supplementary
另外	additional; in addition; besides
另存	to save (a file) after options (name, location, format etc) have been selected by the user
另存為	Save As ... (menu option in a software application)
另寄	to mail separately
另有	to have some other (reason etc)
另有企圖	(idiom) to have an ulterior motive
另案	another case (in law); a case to treat separately
另用	diversion
另當別論	to treat differently; another cup of tea
另眼相看	to treat sb favorably; to view in a new light
另行	(to do sth) separately; as a separate action
另行通知	to notify at a different time; to notify later; to give prior notice
另見	cf.
另覓新歡	to seek happiness elsewhere (euphemism for extramarital sex)
另請高明	please find sb better qualified than me (idiom)
另謀高就	to get a better job somewhere else (idiom)
另起爐灶	lit. to set up a separate kitchen (idiom); to start from scratch
另開	to break up; to divide property and live apart
另闢蹊徑	to take an alternate route (idiom); to find an alternative
另類	offbeat; alternative; avant-garde
另類醫療	alternative medicine
叨	to receive the benefit of
叨叨	to chatter; to hog the conversation
叨嘮	to be chattersome; to talk on and on without stopping; to nag
叨擾	to bother; to trouble
叩	to knock; to kowtow
叩問	(literary) to inquire; to ask; question
叩應	call-in (loanword)
叩拜	to bow in salute; to kowtow
叩球	spike (volleyball)
叩見	to kowtow in salute
叩謁	to visit (esp. one's superiors)
叩門	to knock on a door
叩關	to knock at the gate (old); to make an approach; to invade
叩頭	to kowtow (traditional greeting, esp. to a superior, involving kneeling and pressing one's forehead to the ground)
叩首	to kowtow; also written 磕頭|磕头[ke1 tou2]
只	only; merely; just
只不過	only; merely; nothing but; no more than; it's just that ...
只可意會，不可言傳	can be understood, but not described (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3]); mysterious and subtle
只好	to have no other option but to ...; to have to; to be forced to
只得	to have no alternative but to; to be obliged to
只怕	I'm afraid that...; perhaps; maybe
只是	merely; only; just; nothing but; simply; but; however
只有	only have ...; there is only ...
只欠東風	all we need is an east wind (idiom); lacking only one tiny crucial item
只消	to only need; it only takes
只爭朝夕	(idiom) to seize every minute; to make the best use of one's time
只當	(coll.) to take (sth) as …; to treat as …; to assume; to act as if …
只知其一，不知其二	to know the first, but not know the second (idiom); only partial information
只管	solely engrossed in one thing
只能	can only; obliged to do sth; to have no other choice
只要	so long as; provided; if
只要功夫深，鐵杵磨成針	If you work at it hard enough, you can grind an iron bar into a needle.
只見	to see (the same thing) over and over again
只見樹木，不見森林	can't see the wood for the trees
只言片語	(idiom) just a word or two; a few isolated phrases
只許州官放火，不許百姓點燈	only the official is allowed to light the fire
只說不做	to be all talk and no action
只讀	(computing) read-only
只限於	to be limited to
只顧	to focus solely on; to pay attention only to; to be preoccupied with
叫	to shout; to call; to order
叫作	to call; to be called
叫做	to be called; to be known as
叫停	(sports) to call a time-out; to halt; to put a stop to; to put on hold
叫喊	exclamation; outcry; shout
叫喚	to cry out; to bark out a sound
叫嚷	to shout; to bellow one's grievances
叫囂	to hoot
叫好	to applaud; to cheer
叫屈	to complain of an injustice; to lament sb's misfortune
叫床	to cry out in ecstasy (during lovemaking)
叫早	to give sb a wake-up call (at a hotel)
叫春	to caterwaul; to call like an animal in heat
叫板	to signal the musicians (in Chinese opera, by prolonging a spoken word before attacking a song)
叫法	term; name; way of referring to sb or sth
叫牌	to bid (bridge and similar card games)
叫聲	yelling (sound made by person); barking; braying
叫花子	beggar
叫苦	to whine about hardships; to complain of one's bitter lot; to complain
叫苦不迭	to complain without stopping (idiom); to bitch endlessly
叫苦連天	to whine on for days (idiom); to endlessly grumble complaints
叫賣	to hawk (one's wares); to peddle
叫車	to call a cab (by phone); to request a ride (via an app)
叫道	to call; to shout
叫醒	to awaken; to wake sb up; to rouse
叫醒服務	morning call; wake-up call (hotel service)
叫陣	to challenge an opponent to a fight
叫雞	rooster; cock; (slang) (Cantonese) to visit a prostitute
叫響	to gain fame and success
叫驢	(coll.) male donkey
召	to call together; to summon; to convene
召募	to recruit; to enlist
召喚	to summon; to beckon; to call
召回	to recall (a product, an ambassador etc)
召妓	to hire a prostitute
召見	call in (one's subordinates)
召開	to convene (a conference or meeting); to convoke; to call together
召陵區	Shaoling, a district of Luohe City 漯河市[Luo4 he2 Shi4], Henan
召集	to convene; to call together
召集人	convener
叭	denote a sound or sharp noise (gunfire etc)
叭啦狗	bulldog
叮	to sting or bite (of mosquito, bee etc); to say repeatedly
叮叮	(onom.) tinkling or jingling sound
叮叮噹噹	(onom.) ding dong; jingling of bells; clanking sound
叮叮貓	(dialect) dragonfly
叮咚	(onom.) ding dong; jingling of bells; clanking sound
叮咬	(of a mosquito etc) to bite
叮問	to question closely; to make a detailed inquiry; to probe
叮噹	(onom.) ding dong; jingling of bells; clanking sound
叮噹聲	tinkle
叮噹響	(onom.) ding dong; jingling of bells; clanking sound
叮嚀	to warn; to urge; to exhort
叮囑	to warn repeatedly; to urge; to exhort again and again
叮鈴	jingle
可	(prefix) can; may; able to; -able; to approve; to permit; to suit
可一而不可再	may be done once and once only; just this once
可不是	(coll.) exactly!; indeed; that's for sure
可乘之機	(idiom) an opportunity that someone (usually a villain or adversary) can exploit
可人	pleasant; agreeable; a person after one's heart (charming person)
可以	can; may; possible
可以意會，不可言傳	can be understood, but not described (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3]); mysterious and subtle
可作	can be used for
可信	trustworthy
可信任	trusty
可信度	degree of credibility; reliability
可倫坡	Colombo, capital of Sri Lanka (Tw)
可兒	a person after one's heart (charming person); capable person
可再生	(of energy, natural resources etc) renewable
可分	can be divided (into parts); one can distinguish (several types)
可加	(botany) coca (loanword)
可勁	vigorously; to the utmost; to the best of one's ability
可動	movable
可卡因	cocaine (loanword)
可取	desirable; worth having; (of a suggestion etc) commendable; worthy
可取之處	positive point; merit; redeeming quality
可口	tasty; to taste good
可口可樂	Coca-Cola
可可	(loanword) cocoa
可可波羅	cocobolo (loanword)
可可米	Cocoa Krispies
可可粉	cocoa powder
可可脂	(loanword) cocoa butter
可可西里	Hoh Xil or Kekexili, vast nature reserve on Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau 青藏高原[Qing1 Zang4 gao1 yuan2]
可吃	edible
可否	is it possible or not?
可哀	miserably
可喜	making one happy; gratifying; heartening
可喜可賀	worthy of celebration; gratifying; Congratulations!
可嘆	lamentable; sad(ly)
可嘉	laudable
可回收	recyclable
可圈可點	remarkable (performance, achievement etc); worthy of praise
可執行	executable (computing)
可堪	how can one endure?; to be able to endure
可塑性	plasticity
可壓縮	compressible
可好	good or not?; luckily; fortuitously
可尋址	addressable (computing); accessible via an address
可導	differentiable (calculus)
可就	certainly
可展曲面	(math.) a developable surface
可巧	by happy coincidence
可待因	codeine (loanword)
可微	differentiable (math.)
可心	satisfying; to one's liking; to suit sb
可念	(literary) pitiable; (literary) endearing
可怕	awful; dreadful; fearful
可怪	strange; curious; surprising
可恃	reliable
可恥	shameful; disgraceful; ignominious
可恨	hateful
可悲	lamentable
可惜	it is a pity; what a pity; unfortunately
可惡	repulsive; vile; hateful
可惱	aggravating; irritating
可想而知	(idiom) (it) goes without saying; can well be imagined
可愛	adorable; cute; lovely
可愛島	Kauaʻi, fourth-largest island of the Hawaiian archipelago
可慮	worrisome
可憎	disgusting
可憐	pitiful; pathetic; to have pity on
可憐兮兮	miserable; wretched
可憐巴巴	pathetic; pitiful
可憐蟲	pitiful creature; wretch
可憐見	(coll.) pitiable; to have pity on sb
可懂度	intelligibility
可持續	sustainable
可持續發展	sustainable development
可採	(mining) recoverable; workable
可採性	(mining) workability (of deposits of coal, ore etc)
可接受性	acceptability
可控硅	(electronics) silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR); thyristor
可掬	conspicuous; plain to see
可擦寫	erasable
可擦除可編程只讀存儲器	EPROM (erasable programmable read-only memory)
可擴展標記語言	extensible markup language (XML)
可支付性	affordability
可支配收入	disposable income
可敬	venerable
可數	countable; denumerable
可數名詞	countable noun (in grammar of European languages)
可數集	countable set (math.); denumerable set
可是	but; however; (used for emphasis) indeed
可有可無	not essential; dispensable
可望	can be expected (to); to be expected (to); hopefully (happening)
可望有成	can be expected to be a success
可望而不可及	(idiom) in sight but beyond reach; unattainable; inaccessible
可樂	amusing; entertaining; (loanword) cola
可樂定	clonidine (drug) (loanword)
可樂餅	croquette
可欺	gullible; easily bullied; weak
可歌可泣	lit. you can sing or you can cry (idiom); fig. deeply moving
可比	comparable
可氣	annoying; irritating; exasperating
可汗	khan (loanword)
可決	to adopt; to pass; to vote approval (of a law etc)
可決率	proportion needed to approve a decision
可決票	affirmative vote
可溶	soluble
可溶性	solubility
可燃	inflammable
可燃冰	clathrate hydrates
可燃性	flammable; flammability
可畏	dreadful; formidable
可疑	suspicious; dubious
可疑分子	suspect; person under suspicion
可看	worth seeing
可知	evidently; clearly; no wonder
可知論	gnosticism, the philosophical doctrine that everything about the universe is knowable
可磁化體	magnetic medium; material capable of being magnetized
可移植	portable (programming language)
可移植性	portability (programming language)
可笑	funny; ridiculous
可結合性	associativity (xy)z = x(yz) (math.)
可編程	programmable
可耕地	arable land
可能	might (happen); possible; probable
可能性	possibility; probability
可蘭經	Quran (Islamic scripture)
可蠢	(dialect) unbearable; embarrassing
可行	feasible
可行性	feasibility
可裂變	fissionable
可裂變同位素	fissionable isotope
可裂變材料	fissionable material
可見	it can clearly be seen (that this is the case); it is (thus) clear
可見光	visible light; light in optical spectrum
可視化	visualization
可視電話	videophone
可親	kindly; nice; amiable
可觀	worth seeing; considerable; impressive; significant
可解	soluble (i.e. can be solved)
可言	it may be said
可調	adjustable
可謂	it could even be said
可讀	enjoyable to read; worth reading; readable
可讀性	readability
可變	variable
可貴	to be treasured; praiseworthy
可身	to fit well (clothes)
可轉債	convertible debt; convertible bond
可轉讓	transferable; negotiable
可轉讓證券	negotiable securities
可逆	reversible; (math.) invertible
可逆性	reversibility
可通	passable; possible to reach
可遇不可求	can be discovered but not sought (idiom)
可選	available; optional
可鄙	base; mean; despicable
可采性	(law) admissibility (of evidence in court)
可靠	reliable
可靠性	reliability
可頌	croissant (loanword)
可食	edible
可驚	astonishing
可體	well-fitting (of clothes)
可麗露	canelé (a French pastry) (Tw)
可麗餅	crêpe (loanword)
台	(classical) you (in letters)
台下	off the stage; in the audience
台伯河	Tiber (river in Italy, the main watercourse of Rome)
台克球	(loanword) teqball
台兒莊區	Tai'erzhuang, a district of Zaozhuang City 棗莊市|枣庄市[Zao3 zhuang1 Shi4], Shandong
台前	front of the stage
台前縣	Taiqian, a county in Puyang City 濮陽市|濮阳市[Pu2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
台北	Taipei, capital of Taiwan
台北市	Taibei or Taipei, capital of Taiwan
台北捷運	Taipei Metro
台北金馬影展	Taipei Golden Horse Film Festival
台南	Tainan, a city and special municipality in southwest Taiwan
台商	Taiwanese businessperson or company (esp. one operating overseas, often in mainland China)
台妹	local girl (referring to a Taiwanese benshengren 本省人[ben3 sheng3 ren2])
台客	stereotypical Taiwanese person (often derogatory)
台山市	Taishan, a county-level city in Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
台山話	Taishanese, a language of the Yue language group 粵語|粤语[Yue4 yu3] spoken in Jiangmen 江門|江门[Jiang1 men2] and in the Chinatowns of North America
台州市	Taizhou, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
台幣	New Taiwan dollar
台座	pedestal
台式	(of an appliance) tabletop model; (of a computer) desktop model
台式電腦	desktop computer
台東	Taidong or Taitung city and county in Taiwan
台東市	Taitung city in southeast Taiwan, capital of Taitung county
台東縣	Taitung County in southeast Taiwan
台江區	Taijiang, a district of Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
台江縣	Taijiang, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
台灣民主自治同盟	Taiwan Democratic Self-Government League
台灣海峽	Taiwan Strait
台灣葉鼻蝠	Formosan leaf-nosed bat
台灣話	Taiwanese Hokkien
台灣關係法	Taiwan Relations Act (of US Congress, 1979)
台獨	Taiwan independence; (of Taiwan) to declare independence
台球	billiards
台球桌	billiards table
台盟	abbr. for 台灣民主自治同盟|台湾民主自治同盟[Tai2 wan1 Min2 zhu3 Zi4 zhi4 Tong2 meng2]
台磅	platform balance
台積電	Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), founded in 1987 (abbr. for 台灣積體電路製造公司|台湾积体电路制造公司[Tai2 wan1 Ji1 ti3 Dian4 lu4 Zhi4 zao4 Gong1 si1])
台端	you (in a formal letter)
台股	Taiwanese stocks; the Taiwan stock market
台胞證	Mainland Travel Permit for Taiwan Residents
台菜	Taiwanese food
台語	Taiwanese Hokkien (aka Taiwanese Minnan, or simply Taiwanese)
台諜	Taiwan spy
台資	Taiwan capital or investments
叱	to scold; shout at; to hoot at
叱呵	to shout angrily; to yell
叱咄	to reprimand; to berate
叱咤	to rebuke angrily
叱咤風雲	lit. to rebuke Heaven and Earth (idiom); fig. shaking the whole world
叱問	to call sb to account; to question angrily
叱喝	to shout at; to berate
叱罵	to curse; to berate angrily
叱責	to upbraid
史	history; annals; title of an official historian in ancient China
史上	in history
史丹佛	(Tw) Stanford (University)
史丹福大學	Stanford University
史丹頓島	Staten Island, borough of New York City
史傳	historical biography
史傳小說	historical novel
史冊	annals
史前	prehistoric times; (attributive) prehistoric
史前人	prehistoric man
史前古器物	prehistoric artifacts; ancient artifacts
史努比	Snoopy (comic strip pet dog)
史卓	Straw (name)
史奴比	Snoopy (comic strip pet dog)
史威士	Schweppes (soft drinks company)
史學	historiography
史學家	historian
史官	scribe; court recorder; historian
史家	historian
史密斯	Smith (name)
史實	historical fact
史思明	Shi Siming (703-761), military colleague of An Lushan 安祿山|安禄山[An1 Lu4 shan1], participated in the 755-763 An-Shi Rebellion 安史之亂|安史之乱[An1 Shi3 zhi1 Luan4]
史提夫·賈伯斯	Steve Jobs (1955-2011), US co-founder and CEO of Apple, Inc.
史料	historical material or data
史普尼克	Sputnik, Soviet artificial Earth satellite; also written 斯普特尼克
史景遷	Jonathan D. Spence (1936–2021), British-American historian of China
史書	history book
史氏蝗鶯	(bird species of China) Styan's grasshopper warbler (Helopsaltes pleskei)
史沫特萊	Agnes Smedley (1892-1950), US journalist and activist, reported on China, esp. the communist side
史泰博	Staples Inc., US office supply store
史無前例	(idiom) unprecedented in history
史特勞斯	(Tw) Strauss (name); Johann Strauss (1825-1899), Austrian composer
史瓦帝尼	(Tw) Eswatini
史瓦濟蘭	Swaziland (Tw)
史瓦辛格	(Tw) see 施瓦辛格[Shi1 wa3 xin1 ge2]
史稱	to be known to history as
史籀篇	Shizhoupian, early school primer in great seal script 大篆[da4 zhuan4], attributed to King Xuan of Zhou 周宣王[Zhou1 Xuan1 wang2] but probably dating from c. 500 BC
史籍	historical records
史臣	official in charge of public records
史萊姆	slime (loanword)
史蒂夫	Steve (male name)
史蒂夫·喬布斯	Steve Jobs (1955–2011), US co-founder and CEO of Apple Inc.
史蒂文	Steven, Stephen (name)
史蒂文斯	Stephens; Stevens
史觀	historical point of view; historically speaking
史記	Records of the Grand Historian, by 司馬遷|司马迁[Si1 ma3 Qian1], first of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3]
史詩	an epic; poetic saga
史詩性	epic
史詩級	epic; impressive
史詩般	epic
史迪威	Joseph Stilwell (1883-1946), commander of US forces in China, Burma and India in World War II
史高比耶	Skopje, capital of North Macedonia (Tw)
史黛西	Stacy (name)
右	(bound form) right; right-hand side
右上	upper right
右下	lower right
右側	right side
右傾	right-wing; reactionary; conservative
右前衛	right forward (soccer position)
右對齊	to right justify (typography)
右手	right hand; right-hand side
右撇子	right-hander
右方	right-hand side
右江區	Youjiang, a district of Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
右派	(political) right; right wing; rightist
右派分子	rightist; rightist elements
右玉縣	Youyu, a county in Shuozhou City 朔州市[Shuo4 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
右箭頭	right-pointing arrow
右箭頭鍵	right arrow key (on keyboard)
右翼	the right flank; (politically) right-wing
右舵	right rudder
右舷	starboard (of a ship)
右袒	to take sides with; to be partial to; to be biased
右轉	to turn right
右邊	right side; right, to the right
右面	right side
右首	right-hand side
叵	not; thereupon
叵測	unfathomable; unpredictable; treacherous
叶	to be in harmony
叶韻	to rhyme; also written 協韻|协韵
司	to take charge of; to manage; department (under a ministry)
司令	commanding officer
司令員	commander
司令官	commander; officer in charge
司令部	headquarters; military command center
司儀	master of ceremonies (MC)
司兼導	driver-guide
司南	ancient Chinese compass
司各特	Scott (name); Sir Walter Scott (1771-1832), Scottish romantic novelist
司售人員	bus crew; driver and conductor
司天臺	Observatory or Bureau of Astronomy (official title) from the Tang dynasty onwards
司寇	minister of criminal justice (official rank in imperial China)
司導	driver-guide
司康	scone (loanword)
司徒	minister of land and people (in ancient times)
司徒雷登	John Leighton Stuart (1876-1962), second-generation American missionary in China, first president of Yenching University and later United States ambassador to China
司機	chauffeur; driver
司法	judicial; (administration of) justice
司法人員	judicial officer
司法官	(Tw) judges and prosecutors
司法機關	judicial authorities
司法權	jurisdiction
司法獨立	judicial independence
司法部	Ministry of Justice (PRC etc); Justice Department (USA etc)
司法院	Judicial Yuan, the high court under the constitution of Republic of China, then of Taiwan
司湯達	Stendhal
司爐	stoker (worker operating a coal fire, esp. for a steam engine)
司祭	priest
司空	two-character surname Sikong
司空見慣	a common occurrence (idiom)
司線員	line judge (tennis etc)
司美格魯肽	(loanword) semaglutide – drug used to treat type 2 diabetes and obesity, marketed under the trademarks Ozempic, Rybelsus and Wegovy
司職	to serve in the role of
司藥	pharmacist
司鐸	priest
司長	bureau chief
司陶特	(Tw) (loanword) stout (beer)
司馬	Minister of War (official title in pre-Han Chinese states)
司馬光	Sima Guang (1019-1086), politician and historian of Northern Song, author of Comprehensive Mirror for aid in Government 資治通鑒|资治通鉴
司馬懿	Sima Yi (179-251), warlord under Cao Cao and subsequently founder of the Jin dynasty
司馬承幀	Sima Chengzhen (655-735), Daoist priest in Tang dynasty
司馬昭	Sima Zhao (211-265), military general and statesman of Cao Wei 曹魏[Cao2 Wei4]
司馬昭之心路人皆知	lit. Sima Zhao's intentions are obvious to everyone (idiom)
司馬法	“Methods of Sima”, also called “Sima Rangju’s Art of War”, one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1], written by Sima Rangju 司馬穰苴|司马穰苴[Si1 ma3 Rang2 ju1]
司馬炎	Sima Yan (236–290), founder and first emperor (265–290) of the Western Jin dynasty 西晉|西晋[Xi1 Jin4], posthumous name 晉武帝|晋武帝[Jin4 Wu3 di4]
司馬穰苴	Sima Rangju (c. 800 BC, dates of birth and death unknown), military strategist of the Qi State 齊國|齐国[Qi2 guo2] and author of “Methods of Sima” 司馬法|司马法[Si1 ma3 Fa3], one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1]
司馬談	Sima Tan (-110 BC), Han dynasty scholar and historian, and father of 司馬遷|司马迁[Si1 ma3 Qian1]
司馬遷	Sima Qian (145-86 BC), Han Dynasty historian, author of Records of the Grand Historian 史記|史记[Shi3 ji4], known as the father of Chinese historiography
司馬遼太郎	SHIBA Ryotarō (1923-1996), Japanese author of historical novels
叻	(used in place names)
叻沙	laksa, spicy noodle soup of Southeast Asia
叼	to hold with one's mouth (as a smoker with a cigarette or a dog with a bone)
叼盤	(of a dog) to hold a frisbee in its mouth
吁	sh; hush
吁吁	to pant; to gasp for breath
吃	to eat; to consume; to eat at (a cafeteria etc)
吃一塹，長一智	Fall into the moat and you'll be wiser next time (idiom); One only learns from one's mistakes.
吃不上	unable to get anything to eat; to miss a meal
吃不下	not feel like eating; be unable to eat any more
吃不了兜著走	lit. if you can't eat it all, you'll have to take it home (idiom)
吃不住	to be unable to bear or support
吃不來	to be unaccustomed to certain food; to not be keen on certain food
吃不到葡萄說葡萄酸	sour grapes (set expr. based on Aesop)
吃不服	not be accustomed to eating sth; not be used to certain food
吃不消	to be unable to tolerate or endure; to find sth difficult to manage
吃不準	to be unsure about a matter; to be uncertain
吃不開	be unpopular; won't work
吃乾抹淨	(idiom) to devour (food)
吃乾飯	(coll.) to be incompetent; useless; good-for-nothing
吃了定心丸	to feel reassured
吃人	exploitative; oppressive
吃人不吐骨頭	ruthless; vicious and greedy
吃人家的嘴軟，拿人家的手短	lit. the mouth that has been fed by others is soft, the hand that has received doesn't reach (idiom)
吃人血饅頭	to take advantage of others' misfortune (idiom)
吃住	food and lodging; to stay (at some place) and eat meals (there)
吃傷	to become sick of a food after eating it too much
吃公糧	to be on the government payroll
吃刀	penetration of a cutting tool
吃別人嚼過的饃不香	lit. bread previously chewed by someone has no flavor (idiom)
吃到飽	(Tw) all-you-can-eat (food)
吃力	to entail strenuous effort; to toil at a task; strenuous
吃力不討好	arduous and thankless task (idiom); strenuous and unrewarding
吃吃	(onom.) sound of muffled laughter (chuckling, tittering etc)
吃味	to be jealous
吃啞巴虧	to be forced to suffer in silence
吃喝	to eat and drink; food and drink
吃喝嫖賭	(lit.) to go dining, wining, whoring and gambling (idiom)
吃喝拉撒	(coll.) eating, drinking, defecating and urinating; the mundane necessities of everyday life
吃喝拉撒睡	(coll.) eating, drinking, defecating, urinating and sleeping; the mundane necessities of everyday life
吃喝玩樂	(lit.) to eat, drink, play and be merry (idiom)
吃回扣	to receive a kickback; to draw a commission
吃土	(neologism c. 2015) (slang) (used jokingly) to live on dirt (typically because one has spent all one's money on consumer items)
吃壞	to upset (one's stomach) by eating bad food or overeating
吃大戶	to plunder the homes of the wealthy for food (in times of famine)
吃大虧	to cost one dearly; to end disastrously; to pay bitterly
吃大鍋飯	lit. to eat from the common pot (idiom)
吃奶	to suck the breast (for milk)
吃奶之力	all one's strength
吃奶的力氣	all one's strength
吃奶的氣力	utmost effort
吃完	to finish eating
吃官司	to face legal action; to get sued
吃小竈	to be given special treatment; to be treated in a favored way
吃屎都趕不上熱乎的	(lit.) if you were eating warm shit, it'd be stone cold by the time you finished it (saying)
吃布	to catch on cloth (e.g. of a zip fastener)
吃席	to attend a banquet (funeral, wedding etc)
吃後悔藥	(fig.) to regret (doing sth)
吃得住	to be able to bear; to be able to support
吃得消	to be able to endure (exertion, fatigue etc); to be able to afford
吃得苦中苦，方為人上人	one cannot achieve glory and wealth without having been through trials and tribulations (proverb)
吃得開	to be popular; to be getting on well; much in demand
吃拿卡要	dinner invitations, grabbing, obstructing and demanding bribes
吃掉	to eat up; to consume
吃播	mukbang, genre of online broadcast consisting of the host eating food while interacting with their audience
吃案	(Tw) (of the police) to bury a crime (i.e. conceal the existence of a criminal case in order to improve crime-solving statistics or in return for a bribe etc)
吃槍藥	(lit.) to have swallowed gunpowder; (fig.) to be ablaze with anger
吃水	drinking water; to obtain water (for daily needs); to absorb water
吃水不忘掘井人	Drinking the water of a well, one should never forget who dug it. (idiom)
吃油	(of food) to absorb oil; (of a vehicle) to guzzle fuel
吃法	way of eating; how something is eaten; how a dish is prepared
吃灰	(neologism c. 2019) (coll.) to gather dust
吃煙	(dialect) to smoke (tobacco)
吃熊心豹子膽	to eat bear heart and leopard gall (idiom); to pluck up some courage
吃牢飯	(coll.) to serve time in prison; (Tw) (sarcastic) to live off the prison system (getting free meals)
吃瓜	(neologism c. 2016) (slang) to watch an entertaining spectacle from the sidelines and-or engage in gossip about it
吃瓜群眾	peanut gallery (esp. in online forums)
吃瓦片	(coll.) to live off income from rental properties
吃癟	(coll.) to suffer a humiliation
吃白食	to eat without paying; to freeload
吃白飯	to eat plain rice; (fig.) to eat and not pay for it
吃的	(coll.) food
吃皇糧	lit. to eat from government coffers; to serve as a government employee
吃相	table manners
吃硬不吃軟	susceptible to force but not persuasion
吃空額	to embezzle by adding to the payroll employees existing in name only
吃空餉	to embezzle by adding to the payroll employees existing in name only
吃穿	food and clothing
吃糧不管事	to eat without working (idiom)
吃素	to be a vegetarian
吃緊	in short supply; dire; tense
吃老本	to live off one's past achievements; to rest on one's laurels
吃膩	to be sick of eating (sth); to be tired of eating (sth)
吃苦	to bear hardships
吃苦耐勞	hardworking and enduring hardships (idiom)
吃苦頭	to suffer; to suffer for one's actions; to pay dearly
吃草	to graze; to eat grass
吃著碗裡，看著鍋裡	lit. eyeing what's in the pot as one eats from one's bowl (idiom)
吃藕	(slang) unattractive; ugly (derived from near homophone 醜|丑[chou3])
吃藥	to take medicine
吃虧	to suffer losses; to come to grief; to lose out
吃虧上當	to be taken advantage of
吃螺絲	(of an actor, announcer etc) to stumble over words (Tw)
吃裡扒外	(idiom) to work against the interests of sb one derives support from; to double-cross one's employer; to bite the hand that feeds
吃角子老虎	slot machine
吃請	to be a guest at a dinner party; to be wined and dined (as a bribe)
吃豆人	Pac-Man (computer game)
吃豆腐	to take liberties with (a woman); to tease with sexual innuendo
吃貨	chowhound; foodie; a good-for-nothing
吃軟不吃硬	lit. eats soft food, but refuses hard food (idiom)
吃軟飯	to live off a woman
吃醋	to feel jealous (esp. because of a rival in love or affection)
吃重	(of a role) arduous; important; (a vehicle's) loading capacity
吃錯藥	(lit.) to have taken the wrong medicine
吃閉門羹	to be refused entrance; to find the door closed
吃閒飯	to lead an idle life; to be a loafer
吃雞	(video games) PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds (PUBG); battle royale game
吃霸王餐	to dine and dash; to leave without paying
吃青春飯	to make the most of one's youthfulness in one's choice of employment (e.g. modeling)
吃食	to eat (of bird or animal); to feed
吃飯	to have a meal; to eat; to make a living
吃飯皇帝大	eating comes first, then comes everything else (idiom) (Tw)
吃飽	to eat one's fill
吃飽了飯撐的	having nothing better to do
吃飽撐著	having nothing better to do
吃館子	to eat out; to eat at a restaurant
吃香	popular; in demand; well regarded
吃香喝辣	lit. to eat delicious food and drink hard liquor (idiom)
吃驚	to be startled; to be shocked; to be amazed
吃鴨蛋	(fig.) to score 0 (on a test, in competition etc)
吃齋	to abstain from eating meat; to be a vegetarian
各	each; every
各不相同	to be quite varied; each one is different
各人	each one; everyone
各人自掃門前雪，莫管他家瓦上霜	sweep the snow from your own door step, don't worry about the frost on your neighbor's roof (idiom)
各位	everybody; all (guests, colleagues etc); all of you
各個	every; various; separately, one by one
各別	distinct; different; separately; individually; unusual; novel
各取所需	each takes what he needs (idiom)
各國	each country; every country; various countries
各地	in all parts of (a country); various regions
各執一詞	each sticks to his own version (idiom); a dialogue of the deaf
各執己見	each sticks to his own view (idiom); a dialogue of the deaf
各執所見	each sticks to his own view
各奔前程	each goes his own way (idiom); each person has his own life to lead
各奔東西	to go separate ways (idiom); to part ways with sb
各就各位	(of the people in a group) to get into position (idiom)
各式各樣	(of) all kinds and sorts; various
各得其所	(idiom) each in the correct place; each is provided for
各打五十大板	lit. to give each one a flogging of fifty strokes (idiom)
各抒己見	everyone gives their own view
各拉丹冬山	Mount Geladaindong or Geladandong in Qinghai (6621 m), the main peak of the Tanggula mountain range 唐古拉山脈|唐古拉山脉[Tang2 gu3 la1 Shan1 mai4]
各拉丹冬峰	Mount Geladaindong or Geladandong in Qinghai (6621 m), the main peak of the Tanggula mountain range 唐古拉山脈|唐古拉山脉[Tang2 gu3 la1 Shan1 mai4]
各持己見	each sticks to his own opinion (idiom); chacun son gout
各方	all parties (in a dispute etc); all sides; all directions
各族人民	people of all ethnic groups; the peoples (of a nation)
各有千秋	each has its own merits (idiom)
各有所好	everyone has their likes and dislikes (idiom)
各樣	many different types
各界	all walks of life; all social circles
各界人士	all walks of life
各異	all different; each unto his own
各盡所能	each does his utmost (idiom); from each according to his means
各種	every kind of; all kinds of; various
各種各樣	various kinds; all sorts
各級	all levels
各自	each; respective; apiece
各自為政	to do things each in one's own way
各色	all kinds; of every description
各色各樣	(idiom) diverse; various; all kinds of
各處	every place
各行其是	each one does what he thinks is right (idiom); each goes his own way
各行各業	every trade; all professions; all walks of life
各類	all categories
各顯所長	each displays their own strengths (idiom)
吆	to shout; to bawl; to yell (to urge on an animal)
吆五喝六	lit. to shout out hoping for fives and sixes when gambling with dice; a hubbub of gambling
吆呼	to shout (orders)
吆喊	to shout; to yell
吆喝	to shout; to bawl; to yell (to urge on an animal)
合	100 ml; one-tenth of a peck
合一	to unite
合上	to close (box, book, mouth etc)
合不來	(of people) to be incompatible; to not get along; to be unable to see eye to eye
合不攏嘴	unable to conceal one's happiness, amazement, shock etc
合乎	to accord with; to conform to
合乎情理	reasonable; to make sense
合作	to cooperate; to collaborate; to work together
合作化	collectivization (in Marxist theory)
合作夥伴	partner (in a joint undertaking); collaborator
合作市	Hezuo, a county-level city in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
合作方	(business) partner
合作社	cooperative; workers' or agricultural producers' cooperative etc
合作者	co-worker; collaborator; also collaborator with the enemy
合作農場	collective farm, Russian: kolkhoz
合併	to merge; to annex
合併症	complication (medicine)
合共	altogether; in sum
合力	to join forces; concerted effort; (physics) resultant force
合十	to put one's palms together (in prayer or greeting)
合取	connective; conjunction
合吃族	lit. joint eaters
合同	contract; agreement
合同各方	parties to a contract (law)
合同法	contract law
合唱	chorus; to chorus
合唱團	chorus; choir
合四乙尺工	names of the five notes of the Chinese pentatonic scale, corresponding roughly to do, re, mi, sol, la
合圍	to surround; to close in around (one's enemy, prey etc)
合夥	to act jointly; to form a partnership
合夥人	partner (in a business or other joint venture)
合奏	to perform music (as an ensemble)
合婚	casting a couple's fortune based on their bithdates (old)
合子	pasty (i.e. pastry stuffed with meat or vegetables)
合字	(typography) ligature
合宜	appropriate
合家	whole family; entire household
合家歡	group photo of whole family
合山市	Heshan, a county-level city in Laibin City 來賓市|来宾市[Lai2 bin1 Shi4], Guangxi
合川區	Hechuan, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
合巹	to share nuptial cup; (fig.) to get married
合式	conforming to a pattern; up to standard
合弓綱	(zoology) Synapsida
合影	group photo; to take a group photo
合得來	to get along with well; compatible
合心	acting together; to one's liking
合情合理	(idiom) reasonable; fair
合意	to suit one's taste; suitable; congenial
合憲性	constitutionality
合成	to compose; to constitute; compound
合成代謝	anabolism (biology)
合成器	synthesizer (musical instrument)
合成數	composite number (i.e. not prime, has a factorization)
合成橡膠	synthetic rubber
合成法	(chemical) synthesis
合成洗滌劑	synthetic detergent
合成物	compound; composite; cocktail
合成石油	synthetic oil
合成纖維	synthetic fiber
合成詞	compound word
合成語音	assembled phonology
合成革	synthetic leather
合成類固醇	anabolic steroids
合扇	(dialect) hinge
合手	to put one's palms together (in prayer or greeting)
合抱	to wrap one's arm around (used to describe the girth of a tree trunk)
合拍	in time with (i.e. same rhythm); to keep in step with
合掌	to clasp hands; to put one's palms together (in prayer)
合擊	combined assault; to mount a joint attack
合攏	to close (flower, eyes, suitcase etc); to bring together
合數	composite number (i.e. not prime, has a factorization)
合於	to tally; to accord with; to fit
合於時宜	in keeping with the current thinking; appropriate for the times (or for the occasion)
合時	in fashion; suiting the time; seasonable
合時宜	in keeping with the current thinking
合格	to meet the standard required; qualified; eligible (voter etc)
合格證	certificate of conformity
合歡	to have sex; to make love; silk tree (Albizia julibrissin)
合氣道	aikido (Japanese martial art); hapkido (Korean martial art)
合水縣	Heshui, a county in Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
合江縣	Hejiang, a county in Luzhou City 瀘州市|泸州市[Lu2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
合法	lawful; legitimate; legal
合法化	to legalize; to make legal; legalization
合法性	legitimacy
合流	to converge; to flow together; fig. to act alike
合浦縣	Hepu, a county in Beihai City 北海市[Bei3 hai3 Shi4], Guangxi
合演	to act together; to put on a joint performance
合為	to combine
合照	group photo; to take a group photo
合營	to operate jointly; a joint venture; cooperative
合理	rational; reasonable; sensible; fair
合理化	to rationalize; to make compatible; to streamline
合理性	reason; rationality; rationale
合璧	to match harmoniously
合用	to share; to use in common; suitable
合當	must; should
合眼	to close one's eyes; to get to sleep
合眼摸象	to touch an elephant with closed eyes (idiom); to proceed blindly
合眾	mass; involving everyone; united
合眾國	federated nation; the United States
合眾國際社	United Press International (UPI)
合眾為一	united as one; e pluribus unum
合眾銀行	Bancorp, a US bank
合租	to rent jointly with other people; co-renting
合稱	common term; general term
合算	worthwhile; to be a good deal; to be a bargain
合約	contract; agreement
合編	to compile in collaboration with
合縫	(of doors, windows etc) to fit snugly when closed; to close nicely
合縱	Vertical Alliance, clique of the School of Diplomacy 縱橫家|纵横家[Zong4 heng2 jia1] during the Warring States Period (425-221 BC)
合縱連橫	Vertical and Horizontal Alliance, opposing stratagems devised by the School of Diplomacy 縱橫家|纵横家[Zong4 heng2 jia1] during the Warring States Period (425-221 BC)
合群	to fit in; to get on well with others; sociable
合義複詞	compound word such as 教室[jiao4 shi4] or 國家|国家[guo2 jia1], whose meaning is related to the component hanzi, unlike compounds such as 玫瑰[mei2 gui1]
合而為一	to merge together (idiom); to unify disparate elements into one whole
合聘	(Tw) (of multiple institutions, departments or organizations) to jointly recruit; to jointly appoint (sb)
合股	joint stock; ply (e.g. 2-ply yarn)
合股線	twine
合肥工業大學	Hefei University of Technology
合肥市	Hefei, prefecture-level city and capital of Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
合腳	fitting one's feet (of shoes or socks)
合葉	hinge
合著	(dialect) (implying sudden realization) so; after all
合葬	to bury husband and wife together; joint interment
合規	compliance
合訂本	bound volume; one-volume edition
合計	to add up the total; to figure what sth amounts to; to consider
合該	ought to; should
合謀	to conspire; to plot together
合議	to discuss together; to try to reach a common judgment
合議庭	(law) collegiate bench; panel of judges
合資	joint venture
合身	well-fitting (of clothes)
合輯	compilation; compilation album
合轍	on the same track; in agreement; rhyming
合辦	to cooperate; to do business together
合適	suitable; fitting; appropriate
合金	alloy
合院	courtyard house
合陽縣	Heyang, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
合集	collection; compilation
合音	backup vocal (music); (phonetic) contraction
合頁	hinge
合體	to combine; combination
合體字	a Chinese character formed by combining existing elements - i.e. a combined ideogram 會意|会意 or radical plus phonetic 形聲|形声
合龍	to join the two sections (of a linear structure: bridge, dike etc) to complete its construction
吉	short name for Jilin 吉林[Ji2 lin2]; surname Ji
吉之島	JUSCO, Japanese chain of hypermarkets
吉事	auspicious event
吉事果	churro
吉亞卡摩	Giacomo (name)
吉人自有天相	Heaven helps the worthy (idiom)
吉他	(loanword) guitar
吉他帶	guitar strap
吉他手	guitarist
吉他譜	guitar tablature
吉伯特氏症候群	Gilbert's syndrome
吉佳利	Kigali, capital of Rwanda (Tw)
吉兆	lucky omen
吉凶	good and bad luck (in astrology)
吉列	breaded and fried cutlet (loanword via Cantonese)
吉利	auspicious; lucky; propitious
吉利丁	(loanword) gelatin
吉利服	ghillie suit (loanword)
吉勒	Gilles (name)
吉卜力工作室	Studio Ghibli, Japanese film studio
吉卜賽人	Gypsy
吉士	cheese (loanword); custard powder; (literary) man (laudatory)
吉士粉	custard powder
吉大港	Chittagong (Bangladesh port city)
吉娃娃	Chihuahua (dog)
吉字節	gigabyte (2^30 or approximately a billion bytes)
吉它	a guitar
吉安市	Ji'an, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
吉安縣	Ji'an, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
吉尼係數	(Tw) see 基尼係數|基尼系数[Ji1 ni2 xi4 shu4]
吉尼斯	(name) Guinness
吉尼斯世界紀錄	Guinness World Records
吉州區	Jizhou, a district of Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
吉州郡	Kilju county in North Hamgyeong province, North Korea
吉布地	(Tw) Djibouti
吉布提	Djibouti
吉恩	Gene (name)
吉慶	auspicious; propitious; good fortune
吉打	Kedah, state of northwest Malaysia, capital Alor Star 亞羅士打|亚罗士打[Ya4 luo2 shi4 da3]
吉拉尼	Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani (1952-), Pakistan People's Party politician, prime minister 2008-2012
吉拉德	Gillard (name)
吉日	propitious day; lucky day
吉普	Jeep (car brand)
吉普斯夸	Gipuzkoa or Guipúzcoa, one of the seven Basque provinces in north Spain
吉普賽人	Gypsy
吉普車	jeep (military vehicle) (loanword)
吉木乃縣	Jeminay Ciunty, a county in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
吉木薩爾縣	Jimsar, a county in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
吉本斯	Gibbons (name)
吉林大學	Jilin University
吉林市	Jilin, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
吉林省	Jilin Province, capital Changchun 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4] (short name 吉[Ji2])
吉水縣	Jishui, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
吉爾伯特	Gilbert (name)
吉爾伯特群島	Gilbert Islands
吉爾吉斯	Kyrgyz; (Tw, HK) Kyrgyzstan
吉爾吉斯人	Kyrgyz (person)
吉爾吉斯坦	Kyrgyzstan
吉爾吉斯斯坦	Kyrgyzstan
吉爾吉斯族	Kyrgyz ethnic group; also written 柯爾克孜族|柯尔克孜族[Ke1 er3 ke4 zi1 zu2]
吉爾達	gelada (Theropithecus gelada), Ethiopian herbivorous monkey similar to baboon
吉特巴	jitterbug (loanword)
吉田	Yoshida (Japanese surname and place name)
吉百利	Cadbury (name); Cadbury (brand)
吉祥	lucky; auspicious; propitious
吉祥物	mascot
吉米	Jimmy, Jimmie or Jimi (name)
吉縣	Ji County or Jixian, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
吉羅米突	kilometer (old) (loanword)
吉莫	(old) name of a kind of leather
吉蘭丹	Kelantan (state of Malaysia)
吉蘭丹州	Kelantan sultanate of Malaysia, near Thai border, capital Kota Baharu 哥打巴魯|哥打巴鲁[Ge1 da3 ba1 lu3]
吉蘭丹河	Kelantan River of Malaysia, near Thai border
吉貝	kapok (Ceiba pentandra)
吉迪恩	Gideon (name, from Judges 6:11 onward); also written 基甸
吉達	Jeddah (Saudi city, on Red Sea)
吉里巴斯	Kiribati (formerly the Gilbert Islands) (Tw)
吉野	Yoshino (Japanese surname and place name)
吉野家	Yoshinoya (Japanese fast food chain)
吉陽區	Jiyang, a district of Sanya City 三亞市|三亚市[San1 ya4 Shi4], Hainan
吉隆坡	Kuala Lumpur, capital of Malaysia
吉隆縣	Gyirong, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
吉電子伏	giga electron volt GeV (unit of energy equal to 1.6 x 10⁻¹⁰ joules)
吉首市	Jishou, a county-level city in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
吉魯巴	jitterbug (loanword)
吊	to suspend; to hang up; to hang a person
吊兒郎當	sloppy
吊具	spreader (for pallet, container etc)
吊唁	to offer condolences (for the deceased); to condole
吊嗓子	voice training (for Chinese opera)
吊塔	a tower crane
吊墜	a pendant (jewelry)
吊墜縛	strappado bondage
吊審	to bring to trial; to bring to court
吊帶	suspenders; garters; shoulder strap
吊帶背心	camisole (women's garment)
吊帶衫	halter top; spaghetti strap top; sun top
吊床	hammock
吊扇	a ceiling fan; a punka
吊打	to hang sb up and beat him; (fig.) (slang) to own (one's opponent)
吊扣	to suspend (a license etc)
吊掛	to suspend; to hang
吊斗	(a container) carried suspended or underslung; cable car bucket
吊杆	a boom (i.e. transverse beam for hanging objects)
吊梯	a rope ladder
吊槓	trapeze (gymnastics)
吊樓	house overhanging a river, supported at the rear by stilts
吊橋	drawbridge; suspension bridge
吊機	crane; hoist
吊死	death by hanging; to hang oneself
吊死鬼	ghost of a person who died by hanging; hanged person; (coll.) inchworm
吊水	to draw water (from a well); (coll.) to receive an IV drip
吊燈	hanging lamp
吊牌	hangtag; swing tag; hanging sign
吊球	to perform a drop shot (tennis etc); drop shot
吊環	rings (gymnastics)
吊瓶	infusion bag or bottle (for an IV)
吊瓶族	"infusion clan", patients who prefer medication by drip rather than orally or by injection etc
吊窗	a sash window
吊籃	hanging basket (for flowers); gondola (of cable car)
吊索	sling; hoisting rope; suspension cable
吊線	plumbline
吊繩	sling
吊胃口	(coll.) to keep sb in suspense; to tantalize; to keep on tenterhooks
吊膀子	(dialect) to flirt (derog.)
吊蘭	spider plant (Chlorophytum comosum)
吊裝	to construct by hoisting ready-built components into place
吊襠褲	baggy pants; sagging pants
吊襪帶	suspenders (for stockings)
吊起	to hoist
吊車	hoist; crane; elevator
吊車尾	(coll.) lowest-ranking (student, participant etc)
吊運	to transport by crane; to convey
吊鉤	suspended hook; hanging hook; hanger
吊銷	to suspend (an agreement); to revoke
吊鋪	suspended bunk
吊鐘花	Chinese New Year flower (Enkianthus quinqueflorus)
吊門	an overhung door; a door that hinges upwards
吊頂	suspended ceiling; false ceiling
吊頸	to hang oneself
吊鹽水	(dialect) to put sb on an intravenous drip
吊點滴	to put sb on an intravenous drip (Tw)
吋	inch (English)
同	used in 胡同[hu2 tong4]
同一	identical; the same
同一個世界，同一個夢想	One world - one dream, motto of 2008 Beijing Olympic games
同一掛	(coll.) to have a lot in common (with sb)
同上	as above; ditto; idem
同事	colleague; co-worker
同人	people from the same workplace or profession; co-worker; colleague
同人小說	fan fiction
同仁	(formal) colleague; fellow member (of an organization or profession)
同仁堂	Tongrentang, Chinese pharmaceutical company (TCM)
同仁市	Tongren, a county-level city in Huangnan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 黃南藏族自治州|黄南藏族自治州[Huang2 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
同仇敵愾	anger against a common enemy (idiom); joined in opposition to the same adversary
同伙	colleague; co-conspirator; accomplice
同伴	companion; comrade; fellow
同位	par
同位素	isotope
同位素分離	isotopic separation
同傳	simultaneous interpretation (abbr. for 同聲傳譯|同声传译[tong2 sheng1 chuan2 yi4])
同傳耳麥	simultaneous interpretation headset
同僚	colleague; coworker
同儕	peer; member of the same class, generation or social group
同儕團體	peer group
同儕壓力	peer pressure
同儕審查	(Tw) peer review
同儕諮商	(Tw) peer counseling
同分異構	isomerism (chemistry)
同分異構體	isomer (chemistry)
同功	(evolutionary biology) analogous
同化	assimilation (cultural, digestive, phonemic etc)
同化作用	assimilation; anabolism (biology)
同卵	(of twins) identical; monozygotic
同卵雙胞胎	identical twins
同名	of the same name; homonymous; self-titled (album)
同名同姓	having same given name and family name
同喜	Thank you for your congratulations!
同在	to be with
同型性	isomorphism
同型配子	isogamete
同堂	to live under the same roof (of different generations)
同好	fellow enthusiasts
同妻	(neologism, attested by 2009) wife of a gay man (the man may marry to conform with social expectations, and the woman often enters the marriage not knowing he is gay)
同婚	same-sex marriage; gay marriage
同字框	name of the radical 冂[jiong1] in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 13)
同學	to study at the same school; fellow student; classmate
同安區	Tong'an, a district of Xiamen City 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 Shi4], Fujian
同宗同源	to share the same origins; to have common roots
同室操戈	wielding the halberd within the household (idiom); internecine strife
同居	to live together; to cohabit
同屋	roommate; to share a room
同工	fellow workers
同工同酬	equal pay for equal work
同年	in the same year; to be the same age
同床共枕	to share the bed; (fig.) to be married
同床異夢	lit. to share the same bed with different dreams (idiom); ostensible partners with different agendas
同德縣	Tongde, a county in Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海南藏族自治州[Hai3 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
同心	to be of one mind; united; concentric
同心協力	to work with a common purpose (idiom); to make concerted efforts
同心同德	of one mind (idiom)
同心縣	Tongxin, a county in Wuzhong City 吳忠市|吴忠市[Wu2 zhong1 Shi4], Ningxia
同志	comrade; (slang) homosexual
同性	same nature; homosexual
同性愛	homosexual
同性戀	homosexuality; gay person; gay love
同性戀恐懼症	homophobia
同性戀者	homosexual; gay person
同性相斥	like polarities repel each other; (fig.) like repels like
同情	to sympathize with; sympathy
同情者	supporter; sympathizer (esp. of political cause); fellow traveler
同意	to agree; to consent; to approve
同感	(have the) same feeling; similar impression; common feeling
同態	(math.) homomorphism
同房	(of a married couple) to have intercourse
同手同腳	clumsy; uncoordinated
同擔	(slang) fan of the same character or idol as oneself
同文館	Tongwen Guan, 19th century college that trained translators for China's diplomatic corps, established in Beijing in 1862 and absorbed by the Imperial University in 1902
同日	on the same day
同日而語	lit. to speak of two things on the same day (idiom); to mention things on equal terms (often with negatives: you can't mention X at the same time as Y)
同時	at the same time; simultaneously
同時代	contemporary
同時期	at the same time; contemporary
同期	the corresponding time period (in a different year etc); concurrent
同框	to appear together in a photo or video clip
同案犯	accomplice
同桌	desk-mate; seat-mate
同業	same trade or business; person in the same trade or business
同業公會	trade association
同業拆借	call loan; short-term loan within banking
同構	isomorphism; isomorphic
同樂	to enjoy together
同樂會	social gathering at which those attending take it in turns to perform for the whole group (music, dancing or comedy etc)
同樣	same; equal; similar; similarly; also; too
同款	similar (model); merchandise similar to that used by a celebrity etc
同步	synchronous; to synchronize; to keep step with
同步加速器	synchrotron
同步口譯	simultaneous interpretation (Tw)
同步數位階層	synchronous digital hierarchy; SDH
同步衛星	(astronomy) synchronous satellite
同步軌道	(astronomy) synchronous orbit
同歲	to be the same age
同歸於盡	to die in such a way that sb (or sth) else also perishes
同母異父	(of a half-sibling) having the same mother but different father
同比	(statistics) compared with the same period of the previous year; year on year; year over year
同江市	Tongjiang, a county-level city in Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
同治	reign name of Qing emperor (1861-1875)
同流合污	to wallow in the mire with sb (idiom); to follow the bad example of others
同源	homology (biology); a common origin
同源詞	cognate; words having a common origin
同溫層	(meteorology) stratosphere
同濟	abbr. of 同濟大學|同济大学[Tong2 ji4 Da4 xue2]
同濟大學	Tongji University
同父異母	(of a half-sibling) having the same father but different mother
同犯	accomplice
同班	to be in the same class; to be in the same squad; classmate
同班同學	classmate
同理	Tongli, a city in Jiangsu Province, China
同理心	empathy
同甘共苦	shared delights and common hardships (idiom); to share life's joys and sorrows
同甘苦	to share joys and sorrows; sharing good times and hard times
同病相憐	fellow sufferers empathize with each other (idiom); misery loves company
同盟	alliance
同盟國	allied nation; ally; confederation
同盟會	Tongmenghui, Sun Yat-sen's alliance for democracy, founded 1905, became the Guomindang 國民黨|国民党 in 1912
同盟軍	ally; allied forces
同知	government sub-prefect (old)
同硯	classmate; fellow student
同窗	schoolmate; fellow student
同符合契	same sign, joint aim (idiom); fig. completely compatible; identical
同等	equal to; having the same social class or status
同級	on the same level; ranking equally
同素異形體	allotropy
同義	synonymous
同義反復	tautology
同義字	synonym
同義詞	synonym
同義語	synonym
同翅目	Homoptera (insect suborder including cicadas, aphids, plant-hoppers, shield bugs etc)
同聲一哭	to share one's feeling of grief with others (idiom)
同聲傳譯	simultaneous interpretation
同聲翻譯	simultaneous translation
同胞	born of the same parents; sibling; fellow citizen
同胞兄妹	sibling
同臺	to appear on the same stage
同舟共濟	cross a river in the same boat (idiom); fig. having common interests
同花	flush (poker)
同花大順	royal flush (poker)
同花順	straight flush (poker)
同蒙其利	to both benefit
同行	person of the same profession
同行評審	peer review
同行評議	peer review
同袍	fellow soldier; comrade; companion
同調	same tone; in agreement with
同謀	to conspire with sb; to plot; a conspirator
同質	homogeneous
同路	to go the same way
同路人	fellow traveler; comrade
同軸	coaxial
同軸電纜	coaxial cable
同輩	of the same generation; person of the same generation; peer
同途殊歸	same road out, different ones back
同道	same principle
同道中人	kindred spirit
同道者	like-minded person; person who shares the same ideals or goals; kindred spirit
同鄉	person from the same hometown or home region
同配生殖	isogamy
同量	commensurable; commensurate
同量異位素	nuclear isobar
同音	(music) unison; (linguistics) homophonous; homonymic
同音字	Chinese character that is pronounced the same (as another character)
同音詞	homophone; homonym
同韻詞	a word that rhymes (with another word)
同類	similar; same type; alike
同類相吸	Like attracts like.
同類相食	cannibalism
同類項	(math.) like terms (in an algebraic expression)
同餘	congruent (math.); having same residue modulo some number
同餘式	congruence (math.); equation for residue modulo some number
同餘類	(math.) congruence class; residue class
同黨	to belong to the same party or organization
同齡	of the same age
同齡人	peer; one's contemporary; person of the same age
名	name; noun (part of speech); place (e.g. among winners)
名下	under sb's name
名不副實	the name does not reflect the reality (idiom); more in name than in fact
名不正言不順	(of a title, degree etc) illegitimately conferred
名不符實	the name does not correspond to reality (idiom); it doesn't live up to its reputation
名不虛傳	(idiom) to live up to one's famous name; its reputation is well deserved
名不見經傳	(lit.) name not encountered in the classics; unknown (person); nobody
名人	personage; celebrity
名人堂	Hall of Fame
名人錄	record of famous men; anthology of biographies
名伶	famous actor or actress (Chinese opera)
名位	fame and position; official rank
名作	masterpiece; famous work
名優	excellent quality; outstanding (product); abbr. for 名牌優質|名牌优质
名兒	name; fame
名冊	roll (of names); register
名分	a person's status
名列	to rank (number 1, or third last etc)
名列前茅	to rank among the best
名利	fame and profit
名利場	competitive environment where individuals vie for recognition and material gain
名利雙收	both fame and fortune (idiom); both virtue and reward
名刺	visiting card; name card
名副其實	not just in name only, but also in reality (idiom); aptly named
名勝	a place famous for its scenery or historical relics; scenic spot
名勝古跡	historical sites and scenic spots
名古屋	Nagoya, city in Japan
名句	oft-quoted phrase; famous line
名叫	called; named
名單	list of names
名嘴	well-known commentator; talking head; pundit
名噪一時	to achieve fame among one's contemporaries (idiom); temporary or local celebrity
名垂青史	lit. reputation will go down in history (idiom); fig. achievements will earn eternal glory
名城	famous city
名堂	item (in a program of entertainments); trick (act of mischief)
名場面	famous scene (e.g. in a movie)
名士	(old) a person of literary talent; a celebrity (esp. a distinguished literary person having no official post)
名妓	famous courtesan
名媛	young lady of note; debutante
名字	name (of a person or thing)
名存實亡	the name remains, but the reality is gone (idiom)
名學	(archaic) logic
名家	School of Logicians of the Warring States Period (475-220 BC), also called the School of Names
名宿	renowned senior figure; luminary; legend (in academia, sport etc)
名實	name and reality; how sth is portrayed and what it is actually like
名將	famous general; (sports) renowned athlete
名導	famous film director
名山	famous mountain
名山區	Mingshan, a district of Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
名山大川	famous mountains and great rivers
名帖	name card; business card
名師	famous master; great teacher
名師出高徒	A famous teacher trains a fine student (idiom). A cultured man will have a deep influence on his successors.
名從主人	(idiom) to refer to sth by the name its owners use
名手	master; famous artist or sportsman
名揚四海	to become known far and wide (idiom); famous
名數	(grammar) number plus classifier; household (in census)
名曲	famous song; well-known piece of music
名望	renown; prestige
名校	famous school
名模	top fashion model
名次	position in a ranking of names; place; rank
名正言順	in a way that justifies the use of the term; genuine; proper
名氣	reputation; fame
名流	gentry; celebrities
名源	origin of a name
名源動詞	denominal verb
名滿天下	(idiom) famous throughout the land; renowned far and wide
名為	to be called; to be known as
名爵	MG Motor (car manufacturer)
名片	(business) card
名牌	famous brand; nameplate; name tag
名牌兒	erhua form of 名牌[ming2 pai2]
名狀	to express; to describe
名產	staple; name-brand product
名畫	famous painting
名畫家	famous painter
名目	name; designation; item
名目繁多	names of many kinds (idiom); items of every description
名相	famous prime minister (in ancient China)
名稱	name (of a thing); name (of an organization)
名稱標籤	name tag
名稱權	copyright; rights to a trademark
名節	reputation and integrity
名篇	famous piece of writing
名籍	register of names; roll
名籤	name tag
名義	name; titular; nominal
名義上	nominally
名義價值	nominal value
名義賬戶	nominal bank account
名聞	famous; of good reputation
名聲	reputation
名臣	important official or statesman (in feudal China)
名花有主	(idiom) (of a woman) already taken
名草有主	(idiom) (humorous) (of a man) already taken (male counterpart of 名花有主[ming2 hua1 you3 zhu3])
名菜	famous dishes; specialty dishes
名落孫山	lit. to fall behind Sun Shan 孫山|孙山[Sun1 Shan1] (who came last in the imperial examination) (idiom)
名著	masterpiece
名號	name; title; good reputation
名角	famous actor
名言	saying; famous remark
名記	well-known journalist; prominent reporter
名詞	(linguistics) noun; term (name for a concept)
名諱	taboo name (e.g. of emperor)
名譽	fame; reputation; honor
名譽博士	honorary doctorate; Doctor Honoris Causae
名譽學位	honorary degree; academic degree Honoris Causa
名譽掃地	to be thoroughly discredited; to fall into disrepute
名貴	famous and valuable; rare; precious
名酒	a famous wine
名醫	famous doctor
名重識暗	of great reputation but shallow in knowledge (idiom)
名量詞	nominal classifier (in Chinese grammar)
名銜	rank; title
名錄	directory
名錄服務	name service
名錶	famous watch (i.e. expensive brand of wristwatch)
名門	famous family; prestigious house
名門望族	offspring a famous family (idiom); good breeding; blue blood
名韁利鎖	(idiom) the shackles of fame and fortune
名頭	reputation
名額	quota; number of places; place (in an institution, a group etc)
名馳遐邇	to be famous far and wide
后	empress; queen; (archaic) monarch
后冠	crown or tiara of a queen, empress or beauty pageant winner
后土	Earth Deity (often paired with 皇天[Huang2 tian1], August Heaven)
后妃	imperial wives and concubines
后座	empress's throne; (fig.) first place in a women's competition
后羿	Houyi, mythological Chinese archer whose wife was Chang'e
后髮座	Coma Berenices (constellation)
吏	minor government official or functionary (old)
吏治	style of governing (of minor official); achievement in office
吏胥	minor official
吏部	Ministry of Appointments (in imperial China)
吐	to vomit; to throw up
吐便當	(slang) (of a character) to reappear in a story line after having been supposedly killed off
吐口	to spit; fig. to spit out (a request, an agreement etc)
吐司	sliced bread (loanword from "toast")
吐字	diction; enunciation; (opera) to pronounce the words correctly
吐實	to reveal the truth; to spill the beans
吐故納新	lit. to breathe out stale air and breathe in fresh (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3]); fig. to get rid of the old and bring in the new
吐根	ipecac
吐棄	to spurn; to reject
吐槽	(coll.) to complain humorously; to gripe about (sth) in a teasing way
吐槽大會	Roast! (PRC comedy series)
吐氣	to exhale; to breathe out
吐沫	saliva; spittle
吐火羅人	Tokharian people of central Asia
吐瓦魯	Tuvalu, island country in the SW Pacific (Tw)
吐痰	to spit; to expectorate
吐穗	to have the ears of grain come up
吐絮	cotton boll splits open and reveals its white interior
吐絲	(of spiders, caterpillars, silkworms etc) to extrude silk
吐絲自縛	to spin a cocoon around oneself (idiom); enmeshed in a trap of one's own devising
吐綬雞	turkey
吐舌頭	to stick out one's tongue
吐艷	to burst into bloom
吐苦水	to have bitter digestive fluids rising to the mouth
吐蕃	Tubo or Tufan, old name for Tibet
吐蕃王朝	Tibetan Tubo Dynasty 7th-11th century AD
吐血	to cough up blood
吐訴	to pour forth (one's opinions)
吐谷渾	Tuyuhun, nomadic people related to the Xianbei 鮮卑|鲜卑[Xian1 bei1]
吐露	to tell; to disclose; to reveal
吐魯番市	Turpan, prefecture-level city in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
吐魯番盆地	the Turpan Depression in Xinjiang
向	towards; to face; to turn towards
向上	upward; up; to advance
向下	down; downward
向來	always (previously)
向例	custom; usual practice; convention up to now
向前	forward; onward
向右拐	to turn right
向壁虛構	facing a wall, an imaginary construction (idiom); baseless fabrication
向壁虛造	facing a wall, an imaginary construction (idiom); baseless fabrication
向外	outward
向好	to be on a positive trend; to be improving
向家壩	Xiangjiaba Dam, Yunnan, site of a hydropower station
向左拐	to turn left
向巴平措	Qiangba Puncog (1947-), chairman of the government of Tibet (i.e. governor) 2003-2010
向後	backward
向心力	centripetal force; (fig.) cohering force; cohesion
向性	tropism
向慕	to adore
向斜	syncline (geology)
向日葵	sunflower (Helianthus annuus)
向暮	towards evening
向火	to warm oneself facing the fire
向盤	compass
向背	support or opposition; alignment with or against a person, group or cause
向著	towards; facing (sb or sth); (coll.) to side with
向量	(math.) vector
向量圖形	(computing) vector graphics
向量積	(math.) vector product; cross product
向量空間	(math.) vector space; linear space
向陽	facing the sun; exposed to the sun
向陽區	Xiangyang, a district of Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
向陽花	sunflower
向隅	(lit.) to face the corner; (fig.) to miss out on sth
向隅而泣	(idiom) to weep in solitude
吒	used for the sound "zha" in the names of certain legendary figures (e.g. 哪吒[Ne2 zha1])
吔	onomat. for surprise, amazement and sigh
吖	(used in transliterating chemical names)
吖丁啶	azetidine (chemistry) (loanword)
吖啶	acridine (antiseptic and disinfectant)
吖嗪	-azine
君	monarch; lord; gentleman
君主	monarch; sovereign
君主制	monarchy
君主國	monarchy; sovereign state
君主政治	monarchy
君主政體	monarchy; autocracy
君主立憲	constitutional monarchy
君位	royal title
君士坦丁堡	Constantinople, capital of Byzantium
君子	nobleman; person of noble character
君子一言，駟馬難追	a nobleman's word is his bond (proverb)
君子之交	friendship between gentlemen, insipid as water (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3])
君子之交淡如水	a gentleman's friendship, insipid as water (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3])
君子動口不動手	a gentleman uses his mouth and not his fist
君子坦蕩蕩，小人長戚戚	good people are at peace with themselves, (but) there is no rest for the wicked
君子報仇，十年不晚	lit. for a nobleman to take revenge, ten years is not too long (idiom)
君子蘭	scarlet kafir lily; Clivia miniata (botany)
君子遠庖廚	lit. a nobleman stays clear of the kitchen (idiom, from Mencius)
君山區	Junshan, a district of Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
君悅	Grand Hyatt (hotel brand)
君權	monarchical power
君王	sovereign king
君臣	a ruler and his ministers (old)
君長	the monarch and his ministers; tribal chief
吜	(onom.)
吝	(bound form) stingy
吝嗇	stingy; mean; miserly
吝嗇鬼	miser; penny-pincher
吝惜	to stint; to be miserly
吞	to swallow; to take
吞併	to annex
吞吃	to devour
吞吐	to take in and send out (in large quantities)
吞吐量	throughput
吞吞吐吐	to hum and haw (idiom); to mumble as if hiding sth
吞噬	to swallow; to engulf; to gobble up
吞噬作用	(biology) phagocytosis
吞噬細胞	phagocyte (cell that ingests and destroys foreign matter)
吞嚥	to swallow; to gulp
吞嚥困難	dysphagia (medicine)
吞拿魚	(loanword) tuna
吞服	to swallow; to take (medicine)
吞沒	to embezzle; to swallow up; to engulf
吞滅	to absorb
吞米桑布札	Tunmi Sanghuzha (6th century AD), originator of the Tibetan script
吞精	to swallow semen
吞聲	to swallow one's cries
吞金	to commit suicide by swallowing gold
吞雲吐霧	to swallow clouds and blow out fog (idiom)
吞音	(linguistics) elision
吞食	to devour
吟	to chant; to recite
吟哦	to chant; to recite rhythmically; to polish verse
吟唱	to chant; to recite
吟詠	to recite; to sing (of poetry)
吟詩	to recite poetry
吟誦	to read aloud; to recite rhythmically; to chant
吟遊	to wander as minstrel
吟風弄月	lit. singing of the wind and the moon; fig. vacuous and sentimental (of poetry or art)
吠	to bark
吠叫	to bark; to yelp
吠陀	Vedas (Hindu sacred writings or legends)
吡	used as phonetic bi- or pi-
吡叻	Perak (state of Malaysia)
吡咯	pyrrole (C4H5N) (loanword)
吡唑	pyrazole (chemistry) (loanword)
吡啶	pyridine C5H5N (loanword)
吡喃	pyran (chemistry) (loanword)
吡嗪	pyrazine (chemistry) (loanword)
吡拉西坦	(pharmacology) (loanword) piracetam (C6H10N2O2), a nootropic
吥	used for transcription in 嗊吥|唝吥[Gong4 bu4]
否	to negate; to deny; not
否則	otherwise; if not; or (else)
否定	to negate; to deny; to reject
否定句	negative sentence
否極泰來	extreme sorrow turns to joy (idiom)
否決	to veto; to overrule
否決權	veto power
否決票	veto
否認	to declare to be untrue; to deny
吧	(modal particle indicating suggestion or surmise); ...right?; ...OK?
吧主	message board moderator or administrator
吧務	forum manager
吧台	counter of a bar (pub)
吧唧	(onom.) squishing sound
吧唧吧唧	(onom.) smacking the lips
吧啦吧啦	(loanword) blah blah blah
吧嗒	(onom.) patter, splatter, click; to smack one's lips
吧女	barmaid
吧托	scam girl
吧托女	scam girl
吩	used in 吩咐[fen1 fu5]; used in transliteration of chemical compounds
吩咐	to tell; to instruct; to command
吩嗪	phenazine (loanword)
吩坦尼	fentanyl (loanword) (Tw)
吪	move
含	to keep in the mouth; to contain
含冤	wronged; to suffer false accusations
含含糊糊	(of speech) obscure; unclear; (of actions) vague
含味雋永	fine, lasting flavor (of literature)
含商咀徵	(idiom) permeated with beautiful music
含垢忍辱	(idiom) to bear shame and humiliation
含宮咀徵	(idiom) permeated with beautiful music
含山縣	Hanshan, a county in Ma'anshan City 馬鞍山市|马鞍山市[Ma3 an1 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
含忍	to bear; to endure; to tolerate
含情脈脈	full of tender feelings (idiom); tender-hearted
含意	meaning
含括	(Tw) to contain; to include; to encompass
含有	to contain; including
含氣	containing air
含水	watery
含水層	aquifer
含沙射影	(idiom) to attack sb by innuendo; to make insinuations
含沙量	sand content; quantity of sediment (carried by a river)
含油	containing oil; oil-bearing
含油岩	oil bearing rock
含淚	tearful; tearfully
含混	vague; unclear; ambiguous
含片	lozenge; cough drop
含碳	carbonic
含稅	tax inclusive
含笑	to have a smile on one's face
含糊	ambiguous; vague; careless
含糊不清	unclear; indistinct; ambiguous
含糊其詞	to equivocate; to talk evasively (idiom)
含羞草	mimosa; sensitive plant (that closes its leaves when touched)
含義	meaning (implicit in a phrase); implied meaning; hidden meaning
含苞	(of a plant) to be in bud
含苞待放	in bud; budding
含英咀華	to savor fine writing (idiom)
含蓄	to contain; to hold; (of a person or style etc) reserved
含蘊	to contain; to hold; content
含血噴人	to make false accusations against sb (idiom)
含辛茹苦	to suffer every possible torment (idiom); bitter hardship
含量	content; quantity contained
含金量	gold content; (fig.) value; quality; prestige
含飴弄孫	lit. to play with one's grandchildren while eating candy (idiom)
听	smile (archaic)
吭	to utter
吭吭	(onom.) coughing, grunting etc
吭哧	to puff and blow; to whimper
吭氣	to utter a sound
吭聲	to utter a word
吮	to suck
吮吸	to suck
吰	clang
吱	(onom.) creaking or groaning
吱吱嘎嘎	(onom.) creaking and grating
吱吱聲	squeak
吱呀	(onom.) creaking
吱嘎	(onom.) creak; crunch
吱嘎聲	(linguistics) creaky voice; vocal fry
吱聲	to utter a word; to make a sound; to cheep
吲	used in 吲哚[yin3 duo3]
吲哚	indole C8H7N (heterocyclic organic compound) (loanword)
吲唑	indazole (chemistry) (loanword)
吳	surname Wu
吳三桂	Wu Sangui (1612-1678), Chinese general who let the Manchus into China and helped them establish the Qing Dynasty, later leading a revolt against Qing in an effort to start his own dynasty
吳下阿蒙	General Lü Meng 呂蒙|吕蒙 of the southern state of Wu (idiom); model of self-improvement by diligent study (from unlettered soldier to top strategist of Wu)
吳中區	Wuzhong, a district of Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
吳仁寶	Wu Renbao (1928-2013), former CCP chief of Huaxi Village 華西村|华西村[Hua2 xi1 Cun1], responsible for turning it into a modern rich community
吳任臣	Wu Renchen (1628-1689), Qing dynasty polymath and historian, author of History of Ten States of South China 十國春秋|十国春秋
吳作棟	Goh Chok Tong (1941-), Singapore businessman and politician, prime minister 1990-2004
吳儀	Wu Yi (1938-), one of four vice-premiers of the PRC State Council
吳儂軟語	the soft and melodic Wu dialect
吳哥城	Ankorwat, Cambodia
吳哥窟	Angkor Wat, temple complex in Cambodia
吳嘉經	Wu Jiajing (1618-1684), early Qing dynasty poet
吳國	Wu state (in south China, in different historical periods)
吳堡縣	Wubu, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
吳天明	Wu Tianming (1939-), PRC film director
吳子	Wuzi, one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1], written by Wu Qi 吳起|吴起[Wu2 Qi3]
吳孟超	Wu Mengchao (1922-), Chinese medical scientist and surgeon specializing in liver and gallbladder disorders
吳官正	Wu Guanzheng (1938-), former CCP Secretary of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection
吳尊	Wu Zun or Chun Wu (1979-), Bruneian actor, vocalist of Fei Lun Hai (Fahrenheit)
吳川市	Wuchuan, a county-level city in Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
吳市吹簫	(idiom) to beg on the streets; to fall into utter destitution (allusion to Wu Zixu's 伍子胥[Wu3 Zi3 xu1] exile and humiliation as described in Sima Qian's "Records of the Grand Historian" 史記|史记[Shi3 ji4])
吳廣	Wu Guang (died 208 BC), Qin dynasty rebel, leader of the Chen Sheng Wu Guang Uprising 陳勝吳廣起義|陈胜吴广起义[Chen2 Sheng4 Wu2 Guang3 Qi3 yi4]
吳建豪	Wu Jianhao or Vanness Wu (1978-), Taiwan pop star and actor, F4 band member
吳忠市	Wuzhong, prefecture-level city in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 寧夏回族自治區|宁夏回族自治区[Ning2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
吳承恩	Wu Cheng'en (1500-1582), author (or compiler) of novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记
吳敬梓	Wu Jingzi (1701–1754), Qing dynasty novelist, author of The Scholars 儒林外史[Ru2 lin2 Wai4 shi3]
吳晗	Wu Han (1909-1969), historian, author of biography of Zhu Yuanzhang 朱元璋, hounded to his death together with several members of his family during the cultural revolution
吳楚	southern states of Wu and Chu; the middle and lower Yangtze valley
吳橋縣	Wuqiao, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
吳永剛	Wu Yonggang (1907-1982), Chinese film director
吳江區	Wujiang, a district of Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
吳淞	Wusong river and dock area in Shanghai
吳清源	Go Seigen (1914–2014), Chinese-born Japanese professional Go player
吳牛見月	cow from Wu is terrified by the moon, mistaking it for the sun
吳玉章	Wu Yuzhang (1878-1966), writer, educator and communist politician
吳王闔廬	King Helu of Wu (-496 BC, reigned 514-496 BC); also called 吳王闔閭|吴王阖闾
吳王闔閭	King Helu of Wu (-496 BC, reigned 514-496 BC), sometimes considered one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸
吳用	Wu Yong, character of 水滸傳|水浒传[Shui3 hu3 Zhuan4], nicknamed Resourceful Star 智多星[Zhi4 duo1 xing1]
吳縣	Wu county in Jiangsu
吳自牧	Wu Zimu (lived c. 1270), writer at the end of the Song dynasty
吳興區	Wuxing, a district of Huzhou City 湖州市[Hu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
吳語	Wu dialects (spoken primarily in Shanghai and surrounding areas)
吳起	Wu Qi (440-381 BC), military leader and politician of the Warring States Period (475-220 BC), author of Wuzi 吳子|吴子[Wu2 zi3], one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1]
吳起縣	Wuqi, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
吳越	states of south China in different historical periods
吳越同舟	Wu and Yue in the same boat (idiom); fig. cooperation between natural rivals
吳越春秋	History of the Southern States Wu and Yue (traditional rivals), compiled by Han historian Zhao Ye 趙曄|赵晔[Zhao4 Ye4], 10 extant scrolls
吳趼人	Wu Jianren (1867-1910), late Qing dynasty novelist, author of The strange state of the world witnessed over 20 years 二十年目睹之怪現狀|二十年目睹之怪现状
吳邦國	Wu Bangguo (1941-), PRC electrical engineer and politician, politburo member 1992-2012
吳郭魚	(Tw) tilapia
吳鎮宇	Francis Ng Chun-Yu (1961-), Hong Kong actor
吳頭楚尾	lit. head in Wu and tail in Chu (idiom); fig. close together
吵	used in 吵吵[chao1 chao5]; Taiwan pr. [chao3]
吵吵	to make a racket; to quarrel
吵吵嚷嚷	to make an (unnecessary) racket (idiom)
吵嘴	to quarrel
吵嚷	to make a racket; clamour; uproar
吵架	to quarrel; to have a row; quarrel
吵醒	to wake sb up with a noise
吵雜	noisy
吵鬧	noisy; raucous; to shout and scream
吵鬧聲	noise
吶	sentence-final particle (abbr. for 呢啊[ne5 a5] or variant of 哪[na5])
吶喊	shout; rallying cry; cheering
吸	to breathe; to suck in; to absorb
吸住	to draw (towards); to be drawn to; to be sucked in
吸入	to breathe in; to suck in; to inhale
吸入劑	inhalant
吸入器	inhaler
吸入閥	suction valve
吸力	(physics) attractive force (gravitational, magnetic, electrostatic etc)
吸取	to absorb; to draw (a lesson, insight etc); to assimilate
吸取教訓	to draw a lesson (from a setback)
吸口	sucker mouth
吸吮	to suck on (sth); to suck in
吸地	to vacuum the floor
吸塵器	vacuum cleaner
吸塵機	vacuum cleaner
吸奶	to suckle; to pump breast milk with a breast pump
吸奶器	breast pump
吸引	to attract; to appeal to; to fascinate
吸引力	attractive force (such as gravitation); sex appeal; attractiveness
吸引子	attractor (math., dynamical systems)
吸引子網絡	attractor network
吸引眼球	to attract attention; to catch attention
吸把	toilet plunger
吸收	to absorb; to assimilate; to ingest
吸收劑量	absorbed dose
吸毒	to take drugs
吸毒成癮	drug addiction
吸氣	to inhale; to breathe in
吸氣器	aspirator
吸氧	to breathe; to absorb oxygen
吸水	absorbent
吸濕	to absorb moisture
吸濕性	moisture-absorbing; hygroscopic
吸煙	to smoke
吸煙區	smoking area
吸煙室	smoking room
吸熱	heat absorption
吸留	to absorb; to take in and retain
吸盡	to absorb completely; to drink up
吸盤	suction pad; sucker
吸盤魚	shark sucker (Echeneis naucrates)
吸睛	eye-catching
吸碳	to absorb carbon
吸積	accretion
吸管	(drinking) straw; pipette; eyedropper
吸粉	to increase one's followers; to get more fans
吸納	to take in; to absorb; to admit
吸聲	sound absorption
吸著	sorption (generic term for absorption, adsorption, diffusion, precipitation etc)
吸蜜鳥	honeyeater (bird of family Meliphagidae)
吸蟲	trematoda; fluke
吸蟲綱	Class Trematoda; fluke; trematode worm, a parasite incl. on humans
吸血	to suck blood
吸血烏賊	vampire squid (Vampyroteuthis infernalis)
吸血鬼	leech; bloodsucking vermin; vampire (translated European notion)
吸貓	(neologism c. 2017) to dote on cats
吸進	to inhale; to breathe in
吸金	money-spinning; moneymaking
吸鐵石	magnet
吸門	epiglottis
吸附	to adhere to a surface; to absorb; to draw in
吸附劑	absorbent
吸附性	absorption; absorbability (chemistry)
吸音	sound-absorbing
吸頂燈	flush-mounted ceiling lamp (loanword)
吸食	(of an insect) to drink (nectar, sap, blood etc)
吹	to blow; to play a wind instrument; to blast
吹乾	to blow-dry
吹了	failed; busted; to have not succeeded; to have died
吹冷風	to blow cold; damping expectations by discouraging or realistic words
吹口哨	to whistle
吹吹拍拍	to boast and flatter
吹哨	to blow a whistle; to whistle
吹哨人	whistleblower
吹喇叭	(lit.) blowing the trumpet; (fig.) to praise sb
吹噓	to brag
吹奏	to play (wind instruments)
吹孔	(of a musical instrument) blow hole
吹拂	to brush; to caress (of breeze); to praise
吹拍	to resort to bragging and flattering
吹捧	to flatter; to laud sb's accomplishments; adulation
吹擂	to talk big; to boast
吹散	to disperse
吹枕邊風	to sway (sb) through pillow talk
吹毛求疵	lit. to blow apart the hairs upon a fur to discover any defect (idiom); fig. to be fastidious
吹氣	to blow air (into)
吹水	(coll.) to chat casually; to shoot the breeze (originally Cantonese)
吹滅	to blow out (a flame)
吹灰	to blow away dust
吹灰之力	(idiom) a slight effort
吹熄	to blow out (a flame)
吹燈拔蠟	lit. to blow out the lamp and put out the candle (idiom); fig. to die
吹牛	to talk big; to brag; to shoot off one's mouth; (dialect) to chat idly
吹牛拍馬	to resort to bragging and flattering
吹牛皮	to boast; to talk big
吹球機	lottery machine
吹竽手	player of the yu 竽[yu2] (free reed wind instrument)
吹管	blowpipe
吹管樂	woodwind music
吹簫	to play the xiao 簫|箫[xiao1], a vertical bamboo flute
吹糠見米	instant results; lit. blow the husk and see the rice
吹脹	to blow up; to inflate
吹臺	(coll.) to fall through; to result in failure
吹葉機	leaf blower
吹號	to blow a brass instrument
吹襲	(of wind) to blow fiercely; (of a storm) to strike
吹逼	(vulgar) to brag; to bullshit
吹風	to let the wind blow on oneself; to be exposed to the wind; to air out (a room); to blow air (e.g. to dry one's hair)
吹風機	hair dryer
吹鬍子瞪眼	to get angry; to fume
吹鼓手	(old) musicians at a wedding cortege or funeral procession
吻	kiss; to kiss; mouth
吻別	to kiss goodbye
吻合	to be a good fit; to be identical with; to adjust oneself to
吻戲	kissing scene (in a movie etc)
吻技	kissing technique
吻痕	hickey; love bite
吻部	snout
吼	to roar; to howl; to shriek
吼叫	to howl; to bellow; to yell
吼聲	roar
吽	roar or howl of an animal; bellow of rage
吽牙	(onom.) the barking of dogs fighting
吾	(old) I; my
吾人	(literary) we; us
吾爾開希	Örkesh Dölet (1968-), one of the main leaders of the Beijing student democracy movement of 1989
吾生也有涯，而知也無涯	Life is short, learning is limitless; Ars longa, vita brevis
吾等	(literary) we; us
吾輩	(literary) we; us
呀	(particle equivalent to 啊 after a vowel, expressing surprise or doubt)
呀諾達	Yanoda, a rainforest in southern Hainan
呂	pitchpipe, pitch standard, one of the twelve semitones in the traditional tone system
呂不韋	Lü Buwei (?291-235 BC), merchant and politician of the State of Qin 秦國|秦国[Qin2 guo2], subsequent Qin Dynasty 秦代[Qin2 dai4] Chancellor, allegedly the father of Ying Zheng 嬴政[Ying2 Zheng4], who subsequently became the first emperor Qin Shihuang 秦始皇[Qin2 Shi3 huang2]
呂嘉民	Lü Jiamin (1946-) aka Jiang Rong 姜戎[Jiang1 Rong2], Chinese writer
呂宋島	Luzon Island, north Philippines
呂宋海峽	Luzon Strait between Taiwan and Luzon Island (Philippines)
呂岩	Lü Yan (lived c. 874), Tang dynasty poet
呂布	Lü Bu (-198), general and warlord
呂布戟	snake halberd
呂梁市	Lüliang, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
呂氏春秋	lit. “Mr. Lü's Spring and Autumn (Annals)”, compendium of the philosophies of the Hundred Schools of Thought 諸子百家|诸子百家[zhu1 zi3 bai3 jia1], compiled around 239 BC under the patronage of Qin Dynasty 秦代[Qin2 dai4] Chancellor Lü Buwei 呂不韋|吕不韦[Lu:3 Bu4 wei2]
呂洞賓	Lü Dongbin (796-), Tang Dynasty scholar, one of the Eight Immortals 八仙[Ba1 xian1]
呂蒙	Lü Meng (178-219), general of the southern state of Wu
呂覽	"Mr Lü's Annals", same as 呂氏春秋|吕氏春秋[Lu:3 shi4 Chun1 qiu1]
呂貝克	Lübeck, Germany
呃	(exclamation); to hiccup
呃逆	to hiccup; to belch
呆	foolish; stupid; expressionless; blank
呆住	to be dumbfounded; to be astonished
呆傻	stupid; foolish; dull-witted
呆子	fool; sucker
呆扳手	open spanner; open end spanner; flat spanner
呆板	stiff; inflexible; also pr. [ai2 ban3]
呆根	(literary) idiot
呆滯	dull; lifeless; sluggish
呆瓜	idiot; fool
呆站	to stand idly
呆笨	dimwitted
呆若木雞	lit. dumb as a wooden chicken (idiom); fig. dumbstruck
呆萌	endearingly silly
呆賬	bad debt
呆頭呆腦	oafish; dull-witted
呇	star
呈	to present to a superior; memorial; petition
呈交	(formal and deferential) to present; to submit
呈報	to (submit a) report
呈文	petition (submitted to a superior)
呈獻	to present respectfully
呈現	to appear; to emerge; to present (a certain appearance)
呈給	to give; to hand
呈請	to submit (to superiors)
呈貢區	Chenggong, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
呈送	to present; to render
呈遞	to present; to submit
呈陰性	to test negative
呈陽性	to test positive
告	(bound form) to say; to tell; to announce; to report; to denounce
告一段落	to come to the end of a phase (idiom)
告之	to inform; to notify
告便	to ask to be excused; to ask leave to go to the toilet
告兒	(coll.) to tell
告別	to leave; to part from; to bid farewell to; to say goodbye to
告別式	parting ceremony; funeral
告吹	to fizzle out; to come to nothing
告密	to inform against sb
告密者	tell-tale; informer (esp. to police); whistleblower
告急	to be in a state of emergency; to report an emergency
告慰	to comfort; to console
告捷	to win; to be victorious; to report a victory
告求	to ask
告狀	to tell on sb; to complain (to a teacher, a superior etc)
告發	to lodge an accusation; accusation (law)
告白	to announce publicly; to explain oneself; to reveal one's feelings
告知	to inform; to notify
告示	announcement
告示牌	notice; placard; signboard
告竣	(of a project) to be completed
告終	to end; to come to an end
告罄	to run out; to have exhausted
告老還鄉	(idiom) to retire from official service due to old age and return to one's hometown
告解	(Catholicism) to confess; confession
告訴	to press charges; to file a complaint
告語	to inform; to tell
告誡	to warn; to admonish
告誦	to tell; to inform
告諭	(literary) to inform (the public); to give clear instructions
告辭	to say goodbye; to take one's leave
告退	to petition for retirement (old); to ask for leave to withdraw
告送	(dialect) to tell; to inform
告饒	to beg for mercy
呋	used in transliteration, e.g. 呋喃[fu1 nan2], furan or 呋喃西林[fu1 nan2 xi1 lin2], furacilinum
呋喃	furan (furfuran, used in making nylon) (loanword)
呋喃西林	furacilinum (loanword)
呎	foot (unit of length equal to 0.3048 m)
呏	gallon; quart
呔	(dialect) non-local in one's speaking accent
呠	to spurt; to blow out; to puff out
呡	the corners of the mouth; the lips
呢	(sentence-final particle) used in questions to link back to prior discourse or context ("what about...?", "and...?")
呢呢	garrulous; talkative
呢呢癡癡	docile
呢喃	(onom.) twittering of birds; whispering; murmuring
呢喃細語	whispering in a low voice (idiom); murmuring
呢子	dense wool fabric (used for coats and jackets)
呣	interjection expressing consent; um
呤	used in 嘌呤[piao4 ling4]; Taiwan pr. [ling2]
呤呤	(literary) to whisper
呦	Oh! (exclamation of dismay etc); used in 呦呦[you1 you1]
呦呦	(literary) (onom.) bleating of a deer
呧	vex
周	surname Zhou; Zhou Dynasty (1046–256 BC)
周一嶽	York Chow or Chow Yat-ngok (1947-), Hong Kong doctor and politician, Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food since 2004
周三徑一	when the circumference is three, the diameter is (approximately) one
周中	weekday; midweek
周代	Zhou dynasty (1046-221 BC)
周作人	Zhou Zuoren (1885-1967), brother of Lu Xun 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4], academic in Japanese and Greek studies, briefly imprisoned after the war as Japanese collaborator, persecuted and died of unknown causes during the Cultural Revolution
周備	thorough; carefully prepared
周傳瑛	Zhou Chuanying (1912–1988), Kunqu 崑曲|昆曲[Kun1 qu3] opera actor
周全	comprehensive; thorough; to bring one's help
周公	Duke of Zhou (11th c. BC), son of King Wen of Zhou 周文王[Zhou1 Wen2 wang2], played an important role as regent in founding the Western Zhou 西周[Xi1 Zhou1], and is also known as the "God of Dreams"
周到	thoughtful; considerate; attentive
周勃	Zhou Bo (?-169 BC), military man and politician at the Qin-Han transition, a founding minister of Western Han
周口市	Zhoukou, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
周口店	Zhoukoudian prehistoric site in Fangshan district 房山區|房山区[Fang2 shan1 qu1], Beijing
周圍	environs; surroundings; periphery
周圍性眩暈	peripheral vertigo
周圍神經	(anatomy) peripheral nervous system
周報	weekly publication
周宣王	King Xuan, eleventh King of Zhou, reigned (828-782 BC)
周密	careful; thorough; meticulous
周寧縣	Zhouning, a county in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
周小川	Zhou Xiaochuan (1948–), Chinese economist, governor of the People's Bank of China 中國人民銀行|中国人民银行[Zhong1 guo2 Ren2 min2 Yin2 hang2] 2002–2018
周年慶	anniversary celebration
周幽王	King You of Zhou (795-771 BC), last king of Western Zhou 西周[Xi1 Zhou1]
周延	exhaustive; distributed (logic: applies to every instance)
周徑	girth; circumference
周恩來	Zhou Enlai (1898-1976), Chinese communist leader, prime minister 1949-1976
周成王	King Cheng of Zhou (1055-1021 BC), reigned 1042-1021 BC as the 2nd king of Western Zhou 西周[Xi1 Zhou1], son of King Wu of Zhou 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2]
周扒皮	Zhou the exploiter, archetypal character in short story 半夜雞叫|半夜鸡叫[ban4 ye4 ji1 jiao4]
周折	twists and turns; vicissitude; complication
周敦頤	Zhou Dunyi (1017-1073), Song dynasty neo-Confucian scholar
周文王	King Wen of Zhou state (c. 1152-1056 BC), reigned c. 1099-1056 BC as king of Zhou state, leading figure in building the subsequent Western Zhou dynasty, father of King Wu of Zhou 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2] the first Zhou dynasty king
周旋	to mix with others; to socialize; to deal with
周日圈	(astronomy) diurnal circle
周日運動	(astronomy) diurnal motion
周易	another name for Book of Changes (I Ching) 易經|易经[Yi4 jing1]
周星馳	Stephen Chow (1962-), Hong Kong actor, comedian, screenwriter and film director, known for his mo lei tau 無厘頭|无厘头[wu2 li2 tou2] movies
周晬	one full year (e.g. on child's first birthday)
周書	History of Zhou of the Northern Dynasties, twelfth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Linghu Defen 令狐德棻[Ling2 hu2 De2 fen1] in 636 during Tang Dynasty, 50 scrolls
周會	weekly meeting; weekly assembly
周有光	Zhou Youguang (1906-2017), PRC linguist, considered the father of Hanyu Pinyin 漢語拼音|汉语拼音[Han4 yu3 Pin1 yin1]
周朝	Zhou Dynasty
周期函數	periodic function
周村區	Zhoucun, a district of Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
周杰倫	Jay Chou (1979-), Taiwanese pop star
周梁淑怡	Selina Chow (Chow Liang Shuk-yee) (1945-), Hong Kong politician
周樹人	Zhou Shuren, the real name of author Lu Xun 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4]
周武王	King Wu of Zhou (-1043), personal name Ji Fa 姬發|姬发, reigned 1046-1043 BC as first king of Western Zhou dynasty 1046-1043 BC
周武王姬發	King Wu of Zhou, personal name Ji Fa, reigned 1046-1043 BC as first king of Western Zhou dynasty 西周[Xi1 Zhou1] 1046-771 BC
周永康	Zhou Yongkang (1942-), PRC petroleum engineer and politician
周波	cycle (physics)
周渝民	Zhou Yumin or Vic Zhou (1981-), Taiwan singer and actor, member of pop group F4
周潤發	Chow Yun-Fat (1955-), Hong Kong TV and film star
周濟	help to the needy; emergency relief; charity
周狗	obedient dog; lackey
周王朝	the Zhou dynasty from 1027 BC
周瑜	Zhou Yu (175-210), famous general of the southern Wu kingdom and victor of the battle of Redcliff
周瑜打黃蓋	fig. with the connivance of both sides; fig. by mutual consent
周璇	Zhou Xuan (1918-1957), Chinese singer and film actress
周瘦鵑	Zhou Shoujuan (1895-1968), writer, translator and art collector in Suzhou, a victim of the Cultural Revolution
周目	(gaming) playthrough (often used after a numeral, as in 一周目[yi1 zhou1 mu4] "first playthrough")
周知	well known
周禮	the Rites of Zhou (in Confucianism)
周穆王	King Mu, fifth king of Zhou, said to have lived to 105 and reigned 976-922 BC or 1001-947 BC, rich in associated mythology
周立波	Zhou Libo (1908-1979), left-wing journalist, translator and novelist
周章	(literary) effort; trouble; pains (to get sth done)
周總理	Premier Zhou Enlai 周恩來|周恩来 (1898-1976)
周至縣	Zhouzhi, a county in Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
周莊	Zhouzhuang, old canal town between Shanghai and Suzhou, tourist attraction
周莊鎮	Zhouzhuang, old canal town between Shanghai and Suzhou, tourist attraction
周華健	Wakin Chau (1960-), HK-born Taiwanese singer and actor
周處	Zhou Chu (236-297), Jin dynasty general
周角	(math.) angle of 360°
周詳	meticulous; thorough; comprehensive
周身	whole body
周轉	to rotate; to circulate (cash, stock etc); turnover
周轉不開	to have financial difficulties; unable to make ends meet
周轉不靈	to have a cash flow problem
周轉金	revolving fund; working capital; petty cash
周速	cycle time; cycle speed
周遊	to travel around; to tour; to cross
周遊世界	to travel around the world
周遊列國	to travel around many countries (idiom); peregrinations
周遭	surrounding; nearby
周邊	periphery; rim; perimeter; surroundings
周邊商品	merch; spin-off product (related to a pop-culture franchise such as a movie, game or band etc)
周長	perimeter; circumference
周髀算經	Zhou Bi Suan Jing, or Chou Pei Suan Ching, one of the oldest Chinese texts on astronomy and mathematics
呫	to mutter; to talk indistinctly
呫呫	to whisper
呫嗶	to read aloud
呫噸	xanthene (chemistry)
呫噸酮	xanthone (chemistry)
呫嚅	to whisper
呫囁	(onom.) muttering; to whisper; mouthing words
呬	to rest
呯	(onom.) bang! (gong, gun firing etc)
呰	to slander; to blame; to revile
呱	used in 呱呱[gu1 gu1]; Taiwan pr. [wa1]
呱呱	(onom.) sound made by frogs, ducks etc
呱呱叫	excellent; tip-top
呱呱墜地	(idiom) (of a baby) to enter the world with a loud cry; to be born
呲	(coll.) to scold; to rebuke
味	taste; smell; (fig.) (noun suffix) feel
味之素	Ajinomoto, Japanese food and chemical corporation
味兒	taste
味同嚼蠟	lit. tastes as if one is chewing wax (idiom); fig. tasteless; insipid
味噌	miso (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 味噌 "miso")
味噌湯	miso soup
味精	monosodium glutamate (MSG)
味素	monosodium glutamate (MSG)
味美思酒	vermouth (loanword); Italian spiced fortified wine
味蕾	taste bud(s)
味覺	sense of taste; gustation
味覺遲鈍	amblygeustia; loss of food taste
味道	flavor; taste; (fig.) feeling (of ...); sense (of ...); hint (of ...)
味醂	mirin, a Japanese cooking wine
呴	breathe on; yawn; roar
呵	(bound form) to scold; to expel breath
呵呵	(onom.) gentle laughter; chuckle
呵喝	to shout loudly; to bellow; to berate
呵斥	to berate; to excoriate; to chide
呵欠	yawn
呵禁	to berate; to shout loudly
呵譴	to reprimand
呵護	to bless; to cherish; to take good care of
呵責	to abuse; to berate
呶	clamor; (onom.) "look!"
呶呶	to talk endlessly, annoying everyone
呶呶不休	(idiom) to chatter endlessly; to talk nonstop
呷	to sip; to drink; Taiwan pr. [xia2]
呷呷	(onom.) quack; honk
呸	pah!; bah!; pooh!
呺	voice of anger; vast; spacious
呻	(literary) to recite; to chant; to intone; (bound form) groan
呻吟	to moan; to groan
呼	to call; to cry; to shout
呼中區	Huzhong, a district of Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
呼之即來	to come when called (idiom); ready and compliant
呼之即來，揮之即去	to come when called (idiom); ready and compliant
呼之欲出	lit. ready to appear at the call (idiom)
呼來喝去	to call to come and shout to go (idiom); to yell orders
呼倫湖	Hulun Lake of Inner Mongolia
呼倫貝爾市	Hulunbuir, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
呼倫貝爾草原	Hulunbuir grasslands of Inner Mongolia
呼出	to exhale; to breathe out; to make an outgoing call
呼叫	to shout; to yell; (telecommunications) to call
呼叫中心	call center
呼叫器	pager; beeper
呼叫聲	whoop
呼召	to call (to do something)
呼吸	to breathe
呼吸器	(medicine) ventilator
呼吸機	(medicine) ventilator
呼吸管	snorkel
呼吸系統	respiratory system
呼吸調節器	regulator (diving)
呼吸道	respiratory tract
呼呼	(onom.) sound of the wind or the breathing of sb who is sound asleep
呼呼聲	whir
呼和浩特市	Hohhot, prefecture-level city and capital of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
呼咻	(onom.) whoosh
呼哧	(onom.) sound of panting
呼哧呼哧	(onom.) rapid breathing
呼哱哱	(coll.) hoopoe
呼啦啦	flapping sound
呼啦圈	hula hoop (loanword)
呼喊	to shout (slogans etc)
呼喚	to call out (a name etc); to shout
呼喝	to shout
呼嘯	to whistle; to scream; to whiz
呼嘯而過	to whistle past; to hurtle past; to zip by
呼嚎	to roar (of animals); to wail; to cry out in distress
呼嚕	(onom.) sound of snoring, wheezing, or a cat purring
呼嚕嚕	(onom.) to snore; wheezing
呼圖壁縣	Hutubi, a county in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
呼天搶地	(idiom) to cry out to heaven and knock one's head against the ground (as an expression of anguish)
呼延	two-character surname Huyan
呼弄	to fool; to deceive
呼應	to conform (with); to echo; to correlate well
呼拉圈	hula hoop (loanword)
呼救	to call for help
呼朋引伴	to gather one's friends; to band together
呼朋引類	to call up all one's associates; rent-a-crowd
呼格	vocative case (grammar)
呼機	pager
呼氣	to breathe out
呼牛作馬	to call sth a cow or a horse (idiom); it doesn't matter what you call it
呼牛呼馬	to call sth a cow or a horse (idiom); it doesn't matter what you call it
呼瑪縣	Huma, a county in Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
呼籲	to call on (sb to do sth); to appeal (to); an appeal
呼聲	a shout; fig. opinion or demand, esp. expressed by a group
呼蘭區	Hulan, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
呼號	to wail; to cry out in distress
呼風喚雨	to call the wind and summon the rain (idiom); to exercise magical powers
命	life; fate; order or command
命不久矣	at death's door
命中	to hit (a target)
命中率	hit rate; scoring rate
命中註定	decreed by fate (idiom); destined; fated
命令	order; command
命令列	command line (computing) (Tw)
命令句	imperative sentence
命令行	(computing) command line
命危	(medicine) in a critical condition
命名	to give a name to; to dub; to christen
命名日	name day (tradition of celebrating a given name on a certain day of the year)
命名法	nomenclature
命名系統	system of nomenclature
命在旦夕	to be at death's door (idiom)
命大	lucky (to have escaped death or serious injury)
命定	to be predestined
命根	lifeblood; the thing that one cherishes most in life
命案	homicide case; murder case
命歸黃泉	lit. to return to the Yellow Springs 黃泉|黄泉[Huang2 quan2] (idiom)
命理	the traditional Chinese study of fate and fortune, using methods such as birth-date analysis, physiognomy, name analysis, feng shui etc; fortune-telling based on these methods
命理學	divination; divinatory art
命盤	natal chart (astrology)
命相	horoscope
命脈	lifeline
命苦	to be born under an ill star
命薄	to be unlucky
命赴黃泉	to visit the Yellow Springs; to die
命途	the course of one's life; one's fate
命途坎坷	to have a tough life; to meet much adversity in one's life
命途多舛	to meet with many difficulties in one's life (idiom)
命運	fate; destiny
命門	(TCM) the right kidney
命題	proposition (logic, math.); to assign an essay topic
命題邏輯	propositional logic
呿	to yawn
咀	popular variant of 嘴[zui3]
咀嚼	to chew; to think over
咀嚼肌	(anatomy) muscles of mastication
咁	so (Cantonese); Mandarin equivalent: 這樣|这样[zhe4 yang4]
咂	to sip; to smack one's lips; to taste
咂嘴	to click one's tongue
咂摸	(dialect) to savor; to test the taste of; (fig.) to ponder upon
咂舌	to click one's tongue
咄	(old)(interjection expressing disapproval, commiseration etc) tut!
咄咄	to cluck one's tongue; tut-tut
咄咄怪事	(idiom) extraordinary occurrence; bizarre event
咄咄稱奇	to cluck one's tongue in wonder
咄咄逼人	overbearing; forceful; aggressive
咅	pooh; pah; bah
咆	to roar
咆哮	(of beasts of prey, torrents of water, a person in a rage etc) to roar
咆哮如雷	to be in a thundering rage (idiom)
咇	fragrant
咈	oppose
咋	dialectal equivalent of 怎麼|怎么[zen3 me5]; Taiwan pr. [ze2]
咋呼	bluster; ruckus; to boast loudly
咋舌	(literary) to be speechless
和	to compose a poem in reply (to sb's poem) using the same rhyme sequence
和事佬	peacemaker; mediator; (derog.) fixer
和合	harmony
和和氣氣	polite and amiable
和善	good-natured
和好	to become reconciled; on good terms with each other
和好如初	to bury the hatchet; to become reconciled
和尚	Buddhist monk
和尚打傘，無法無天	lit. like a monk holding an umbrella — no hair, no sky (idiom) (punning on 髮|发[fa4] vs 法[fa3])
和局	draw; tied game
和布克賽爾蒙古自治縣	Hoboksar Mongol Autonomous County, in Tacheng Prefecture 塔城地區|塔城地区[Ta3 cheng2 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
和平	peace; peaceful
和平主義	pacifism
和平共處	peaceful coexistence of nations, societies etc
和平共處五項原則	Zhou Enlai's Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence
和平區	Heping or Peace district (of many towns)
和平會談	peace talks; peace discussions
和平條約	peace treaty
和平特使	peace envoy
和平統一	peaceful reunification
和平縣	Heping, a county in Heyuan City 河源市[He2 yuan2 Shi4], Guangdong
和平談判	peace negotiations
和平里	Hepingli neighborhood of Beijing
和平隊	(U.S.) Peace Corps
和平鳥	(bird species of China) Asian fairy-bluebird (Irena puella)
和平鴿	dove of peace
和弦	(music) chord
和悅	affable; kindly
和政縣	Hezheng, a county in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
和散那	Hosanna (in Christian praise)
和數	sum (math.)
和暖	pleasantly warm (weather)
和會	peace conference
和服	kimono
和林格爾縣	Horinger, a county in Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
和棋	drawn game (in chess or other board game)
和樂	harmonious and happy
和樂蟹	Hele crab
和歌	waka (style of Japanese poetry)
和歌山	Wakayama (prefecture in Japan)
和氣	friendly; polite; amiable
和氣生財	(idiom) amiability makes you rich
和氣致祥	(idiom) amiability leads to harmony
和洽	harmonious
和煦	warm; genial
和牌	(mahjong) to complete a hand
和牛	wagyu
和珅	Heshen (1746-1799), Manchu official of the Qing Dynasty who openly practiced various forms of corruption on a grand scale
和田	Wada (Japanese surname and place name)
和田地區	Hotan, prefecture in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
和田市	Hotan, a county-level city in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
和田河	Hotan River in Xinjiang
和田玉	nephrite; Hotan jade
和田縣	Hotan, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
和盤托出	lit. to put everything out including the tray; to reveal everything
和睦	peaceful relations; harmonious
和睦相處	to live in harmony; to get along with each other
和碩縣	Hoxud, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
和稀泥	to try to smooth things over; to paper over the issues
和約	peace treaty
和緩	mild; gentle; to ease up
和縣	He County or Hexian, a county in Ma'anshan City 馬鞍山市|马鞍山市[Ma3 an1 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
和美	harmonious; in perfect harmony
和聲	harmony (music)
和藹	kindly; nice; amiable
和藹可親	affable; genial
和衣	with one's clothes on (when sleeping)
和衣而臥	to lie down to sleep with one's clothes on
和解	to settle (a dispute out of court); to reconcile; settlement
和解費	money settlement (fine or payment to end a legal dispute)
和記黃埔	Hutchison Whampoa (former investment holding company based in Hong Kong, founded in 1863, defunct in 2015)
和談	peace talks
和諧	harmonious; harmony; (euphemism) to censor
和諧性	compatibility; mutual harmony
和諧號	CRH-series high-speed trains operated by China Railway
和達清夫	Wadati Kiyoō (1902-1995), pioneer Japanese seismologist
和闐	old way of writing 和田[He2 tian2], Hotan (prior to 1959)
和離	mutual-consent divorce (in ancient China)
和靜縣	Hejing, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
和音	harmony (pleasing combination of sounds)
和順	sweet-tempered; acquiescent
和順縣	Heshun, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
和顏悅色	amiable manner; pleasant countenance
和風	breeze; (Tw) Japanese-style (cooking etc)
和食	Japanese cuisine
和麵	to knead dough
和龍市	Helong, a county-level city in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
咍	(interj.); happy; sound of laughter
咎	fault; to blame; to punish
咎有應得	(idiom) to deserve what one gets (punishment, mishap etc)
咎由自取	(idiom) to have only oneself to blame; to bring trouble through one's own actions
咐	used in 吩咐[fen1 fu5] and 囑咐|嘱咐[zhu3 fu5]
咑	da! (sound used to move animals along)
咒	incantation; magic spell; curse
咒文	incantation; spell; to curse
咒罵	to damn; to curse; to revile
咒詛	to curse; to revile
咒語	incantation; spell; enchantment
咔	(onom.) click; snap; crack
咔唑	carbazole (chemistry) (loanword)
咔啦	crispy, deep-fried (variant of 卡拉[ka3 la1])
咔嗒	(onom.) click
咔嘰	khaki (loanword)
咔嚓	(onom.) breaking or snapping; (coll.) cut it out; stop it
咕	(onom.) for the sound of a bird, an empty stomach etc
咕咕叫	sound made by an empty stomach
咕咚	splash; (onom.) for heavy things falling down
咕咾肉	sweet and sour meat (pork)
咕唧	to whisper; to mutter
咕噥	to murmur; to mumble; to grumble
咕嚕	(onom.) to rumble (of a stomach); to coo (of a dove); rumbling
咕嚕肉	sweet and sour meat (pork)
咖	(bound form) coffee; café (abbr. for 咖啡[ka1 fei1])
咖位	(coll.) prestige; level of prominence (esp. in the entertainment industry, from 大咖[da4 ka1])
咖哩	(Tw) (loanword) curry; colloquial pr. [ga1li3] or [ga1li2]
咖啡	(loanword) coffee
咖啡伴侶	Coffee-mate (non-dairy creamer manufactured by Nestlé)
咖啡因	caffeine (loanword)
咖啡壺	coffee pot; coffee maker
咖啡室	coffee shop
咖啡屋	coffee house; café
咖啡師	barista
咖啡店	café; coffee shop
咖啡廳	coffee shop
咖啡機	coffee machine; coffee maker
咖啡色	coffee color; brown
咖啡豆	coffee beans
咖啡館	café; coffee shop
咖啡館兒	erhua form of 咖啡館|咖啡馆[ka1 fei1 guan3]
咖喱	(loanword) curry
咖喱粉	curry powder
咖逼	(coll.) coffee (loanword) (Tw)
咗	Cantonese particle equivalent to 了[le5] or 過|过[guo4]
咚	(onom.) boom (of a drum); knock (on the door)
咚咚	Dongdong, cheerleading mascot of 2008 Beijing Olympics
咠	to whisper; to blame, to slander
咡	space between mouth and ears
咢	beat a drum; startle
咣	(onom.) bang; door banging shut
咣當	crash; bang
咤	used in 叱咤[chi4 zha4]
咥	gnaw; bite
咦	expression of surprise
咧	used in 咧咧[lie1 lie1]; used in 大大咧咧[da4 da4 lie1 lie1]
咧咧	(dialect) to cry; to whimper; (dialect) to talk drivel
咧嘴	to draw back the corners of one's mouth (as when smiling, grimacing, or snarling)
咧開嘴笑	to laugh
咨	used in 咨文[zi1 wen2]; used in 咨嗟[zi1 jie1]
咨嗟	(literary) to sigh; to heave a sigh; (literary) to gasp in admiration
咨文	(old) official communication (between government offices of equal rank)
咨請	to formally request (by means of an official communication 咨文[zi1 wen2])
咩	the bleating of sheep
咪	sound for calling a cat
咪咪	oboe-like musical instrument used in folk music of Gansu, Qinghai etc
咪唑	imidazole (chemistry) (loanword)
咪嘴	to lip-sync
咫	8 in. length unit of Zhou dynasty
咫尺	(literary) very close; very near
咫尺天涯	so close, yet worlds apart (idiom)
咬	to bite; to nip
咬人狗兒不露齒	lit. the dog that bites does not show its fangs (idiom)
咬人的狗不露齒	lit. the dog that bites doesn't show its teeth (idiom)
咬傷	bite (e.g. snake bite, mosquito bite)
咬合	(of uneven surfaces) to fit together; (of gear wheels) to mesh
咬唇妝	bitten-lips look (darker lipstick applied on the inner part of the lips, and lighter on the outer part)
咬嚙	to gnaw
咬嚼	to chew; to masticate; to ruminate
咬字	to pronounce (clearly or otherwise); to enunciate
咬定	to assert; to insist that
咬文嚼字	to bite words and chew characters (idiom); punctilious about minutiae of wording
咬牙	to clench one's teeth; to grind the teeth; gnaw
咬牙切齒	(idiom) to gnash one's teeth; to fume with rage
咬甲癖	onychophagia (nail biting)
咬痕	bite scar
咬緊牙關	(idiom) to grit one's teeth tightly
咬耳朵	(coll.) to whisper in sb's ear
咬舌自盡	to commit suicide by biting off one's tongue
咬著耳朵	whispering in sb's ear
咬鉤	(of fish) to bite; to take the bait
咬齧	to gnaw
咭咭呱呱	(onom.) giggling noise
咮	beak of bird; peck at
咯	(final particle similar to 了[le5], indicating that sth is obvious)
咯吱	(onom.) creak; groan
咯咯	(onom.) gurgle
咯咯噠	(slang) chicken (playful term, from the sound a chicken makes)
咯咯笑	chuckle
咯噔	(onom.) thump; clunk (e.g. of footsteps or impact); (fig.) a sudden emotional jolt; heart skipping a beat
咯嚓	to break into two (onom.)
咯血	to cough up blood; to have hemoptysis
咱	I or me; we (including both the speaker and the person spoken to)
咱倆	the two of us
咱們	we or us (including both the speaker and the person(s) spoken to)
咱家	I; me; my
咳	sound of sighing
咳嗆	(dialect) to cough
咳嗽	to cough
咳痰	to cough up phlegm; to expectorate
咳血	to cough up blood
咴	neigh; whinny (sound made by a horse)
咷	wail
咸	all; everyone; each
咸安區	Xian'an, a district of Xianning City 咸寧市|咸宁市[Xian2 ning2 Shi4], Hubei
咸寧市	Xianning, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
咸與維新	everyone participates in reforms (idiom); to replace the old with new
咸興	Hamhung, North Korea
咸興市	Hamhung, North Korea
咸豐	Xianfeng (1831-1861), reign name of Qing emperor, reigned from 1850-1861
咸豐縣	Xianfeng, a county in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
咸豐草	(Tw) (botany) hairy beggarticks (Bidens pilosa var. radiata)
咸鏡	Hamgyeongdo Province of Joseon Korea, now divided into North Hamgyeong Province 咸鏡北道|咸镜北道[Xian2 jing4 bei3 dao4] and South Hamgyeong Province 咸鏡南道|咸镜南道[Xian2 jing4 nan2 dao4] of North Korea
咸鏡北道	North Hamgyeong Province in northeast of North Korea, capital Chongjin 清津市[Qing1 jin1 shi4]
咸鏡南道	South Hamgyeong Province of east North Korea
咸鏡道	Hamgyeong Province of Joseon dynasty Korea, now divided into North Hamgyeong Province 咸鏡北道|咸镜北道[Xian2 jing4 bei3 dao4] and South Hamgyeong Province 咸鏡南道|咸镜南道[Xian2 jing4 nan2 dao4] of North Korea
咸陽市	Xianyang, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
咸陽橋	Xianyang Bridge
咹	eh?
咺	glorious; sob; weep
咻	call out; jeer
咼	lopsided; Taiwan pr. [kuai1]
咽	throat; pharynx; narrow pass
咽喉	throat
咽峽	isthmus of the fauces
咽峽炎	angina; sore throat
咽炎	pharyngitis
咽頭	pharynx
咽鼓管	Eustachian tube (linking the pharynx 咽[yan1] to the tympanic cavity 鼓室[gu3 shi4] of the middle ear)
咾	a noise; a sound
咿	(onom.) to squeak
咿呀學語	(of a baby) to babble
哀	Ai (c. 2000 BC), sixth of legendary Flame Emperors 炎帝[Yan2 di4] descended from Shennong 神農|神农[Shen2 nong2] Farmer God, also known as Li 釐|厘[Li2]
哀傷	grief; distress; bereavement; grieved; heartbroken; dejected
哀兵必勝	an army burning with righteous indignation is bound to win (idiom)
哀勸	to persuade by all possible means; to implore
哀告	to beg piteously; to supplicate
哀告賓服	to bring tribute as sign of submission (idiom); to submit
哀哭	to weep in sorrow
哀啟	obituary (archaic term)
哀嘆	to sigh; to lament; to bewail
哀嚎	to wail; to cry piteously; (of a wild animal) to howl
哀失	bereavement
哀婉	(esp. of poetry, music) melancholy; sad and moving
哀子	son orphaned of his mother
哀家	I, me (self-referring by a widowed empress etc, used in historical novels and operas)
哀平	joint name for the Han dynasty emperors Aidi (reigned 7-1 BC) and Pingdi (reigned 1 BC - 6 AD)
哀思	grief-stricken thoughts; mourning
哀怨	grief; resentment; aggrieved
哀悼	to grieve over sb's death; to lament sb's death; mourning
哀愁	sorrow; sadness; distressed; sorrowful
哀慟	to be deeply grieved
哀憐	to feel compassion for; to pity
哀憫	to take pity on; to feel sorry for
哀戚	sorrow; grief
哀榮	(literary) reverence accorded to sb who has died; posthumous recognition
哀樂	funeral music; plaint; dirge
哀歌	mournful song; dirge; elegy
哀毀骨立	(idiom) to become emaciated from grief, esp. while mourning the death of a parent
哀求	to entreat; to implore; to plead
哀江南賦	Lament for the South, long poem in Fu style by Yu Xin 庾信 mourning the passing of Liang of the Southern dynasties 南朝梁朝
哀泣	to wail
哀痛	to grieve; to mourn; deep sorrow; grief
哀的美敦書	(loanword) (old) ultimatum
哀矜	to take pity on; to feel sorry for
哀而不傷	deeply felt but not mawkish (idiom)
哀莫大於心死	nothing sadder than a withered heart (idiom attributed to Confucius by Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3])
哀號	to wail; to cry piteously (variant of 哀嚎[ai1 hao2])
哀豔	(of poetry etc) plaintive and beautiful; poignant
哀辭	dirge; lament
哀鳴	(of animals, the wind etc) to make a mournful sound; whine; moan; wail
哀鴻遍野	lit. plaintive whine of geese (idiom); fig. land swarming with disaster victims
品	(bound form) article; commodity; product; goods
品位	rank; grade; quality
品保	quality assurance (QA)
品名	name of product; brand name
品味	to sample; to taste; to appreciate
品味生活	to appreciate life
品嚐	to have a taste of; to sample
品學	conduct and learning (of an individual); moral nature and skill
品學兼優	excelling both in morals and studies (idiom); top marks for studies and for behavior (at school)
品客	Pringles (snack food brand)
品川	Shinagawa River; Shinagawa district of Tokyo
品川區	Shinagawa district of Tokyo
品德	moral character
品性	nature; characteristic; moral character
品控	quality control (QC), abbr. for 品質控制|品质控制
品族	strain (of a species)
品月	light blue
品服	costume; ceremonial dress (determining the grade of an official)
品格	(of a person) moral character; integrity
品牌	brand; brand name
品目	item
品相	condition
品秩	(old) rank and salary of an official post
品種	breed; variety
品第	grade (i.e. quality); rank
品等	grade (quality of product)
品管	quality control
品節	character; moral integrity
品紅	magenta; fuschia
品級	workmanship
品綠	light green
品繫	strain (of a species)
品脫	pint (approx. 0.47 liter) (loanword)
品色	variety; kind
品茗	to taste tea; to sip tea
品茶	to taste tea; to sip tea
品藍	pinkish blue
品行	behavior; moral conduct
品評	to judge; to assess
品議	to judge
品讀	to read mindfully; to read with full engagement
品貌	behavior and appearance
品質	character; intrinsic quality (of a person)
品趣志	Pinterest (photo-sharing website)
品達	Pindar, Greek poet
品酒	to taste wine; to sip wine
品鑒	to judge; to examine; to evaluate
品頭論足	lit. to assess the head and discuss the feet (idiom); minute criticism of a woman's appearance
品題	to evaluate (an individual); to appraise
品類	category; kind
品麗珠	Cabernet Franc (grape type)
哂	(literary) to smile; to sneer
哂笑	(literary) to sneer; to laugh at
哂納	(literary) please kindly accept
哃	(literary) to talk nonsense; to boast; (used in place names)
哄	roar of laughter (onom.); hubbub; to roar (as a crowd)
哄勸	to coax
哄堂大笑	the whole room roaring with laughter (idiom)
哄抬	to artificially inflate; to bid up (the price)
哄搶	to panic buy; to loot
哄然	boisterous; uproarious
哄瞞	to deceive
哄笑	to roar with laughter; hoots of laughter; guffaw
哄誘	to coax; to induce
哄騙	to deceive; to cheat
哆	used in 哆嗦[duo1 suo5]
哆啦A夢	Doraemon, Japanese manga and anime series character
哆嗦	to tremble; to shiver
哆囉美遠	Torobiawan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
哆囉美遠族	Torobiawan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
哇	replaces 啊[a5] when following the vowel "u" or "ao"
哇哇	sound of crying
哇塞	(slang) wow!; also pr. [wa1sei1]
哇沙比	wasabi (loanword) (Tw)
哇沙米	wasabi (loanword) (Tw)
哇靠	(Tw) whoa!; holy crap! jeez! (from Taiwanese 我哭, Tai-lo pr. [goá khàu], "I cry!")
哈	abbr. for 哈薩克斯坦|哈萨克斯坦[Ha1 sa4 ke4 si1 tan3], Kazakhstan
哈伯	Edwin Hubble (1889-1953), US astronomer
哈伯太空望遠鏡	Hubble Space Telescope
哈伯瑪斯	Jürgen Habermas (1929-), German social philosopher
哈佛	Harvard
哈佛大學	Harvard University
哈倫褲	harem pants (loanword)
哈克貝利·芬歷險記	Adventures of Huckleberry Finn by Mark Twain 馬克·吐溫|马克·吐温[Ma3 ke4 · Tu3 wen1]
哈利	Harry
哈利·波特	Harry Potter, boy wizard in the novels by J.K. Rowling 羅琳|罗琳
哈利伯頓	Halliburton (US construction company)
哈利法克斯	Halifax (name); Halifax city, capital of Nova Scotia, Canada
哈利路亞	(loanword) hallelujah
哈努卡	Hanukkah (Chanukah), 8 day Jewish holiday starting on the 25th day of Kislev (can occur from late Nov up to late Dec on Gregorian calendar)
哈努卡節	Hanukkah (Chanukah), 8 day Jewish holiday starting on the 25th day of Kislev (can occur from late Nov up to late Dec on the Gregorian calendar)
哈勃	Hubble (name); Edwin Hubble (1889-1953), US astronomer
哈博羅內	Gaborone, capital of Botswana
哈吉	haji or hadji (Islam)
哈吉斯	haggis (a Scottish dish) (loanword)
哈哈	(onom.) laughing out loud
哈哈大笑	to laugh heartily; to burst into loud laughter
哈哈笑	to laugh out loud
哈哈鏡	distorting mirror
哈啾	(onom.) a-choo (sound of a sneeze) (Tw)
哈喇	rancid; to kill; to slaughter
哈喇子	(dialect) saliva
哈嘍	hello (loanword)
哈囉	hello (loanword)
哈囉出行	Hellobike, transportation service platform
哈基米	(slang) cat
哈士奇	husky (sled dog)
哈士蟆	Chinese brown frog (Rana chensinensis) (loanword from Manchu)
哈奴曼	Hanuman, a monkey God in the Indian epic Ramayana
哈姆雷特	Hamlet (name)
哈季奇	Goran Hadžić (1958-2016), Croatian Serb leader until 1994, indicted war criminal
哈密市	Hami, prefecture-level city in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
哈密瓜	Hami melon (a variety of muskmelon); honeydew melon; cantaloupe
哈尼	honey (term of endearment) (loanword)
哈尼族	Hani ethnic group
哈巴河縣	Habahe, a county in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
哈巴狗	pekingese (dog); (fig.) sycophant; lackey
哈巴羅夫斯克	Khabarovsk, far eastern Russian city and province on the border with Heilongjiang province of China
哈巴谷書	Book of Habakkuk
哈巴雪山	Mt Haba (Nakhi: golden flower), in Lijiang 麗江|丽江, northwest Yunnan
哈布斯堡	Hapsburg (European dynasty)
哈希	hash (computing)
哈得斯	Hades
哈德斯	Hades
哈德遜河	Hudson River, New York State, USA
哈恩	Jaén, Spain
哈扣	hardcore (loanword)
哈拉	to chat idly (Tw)
哈拉子	(dialect) saliva; also written 哈喇子[ha1 la2 zi5]
哈拉爾五世	Harald V of Norway
哈拉雷	Harare, capital of Zimbabwe
哈拿	Hannah (biblical figure)
哈摩辣	Gomorrah
哈日	Japanophile
哈日族	Japanophile (refers to teenage craze for everything Japanese, originally mainly in Taiwan)
哈普西科德	harpsichord
哈根達斯	Häagen-Dazs
哈桑	Hassan or Hasan (personal name or place name)
哈梅內伊	Khamenei, Ayatollah Aly (1939-), Supreme Leader of Iran, aka Ali Khamenei
哈棒	(Tw) (slang) to give a blowjob
哈欠	yawn
哈比人	Hobbit
哈爾斯塔	Harstad (city in Norway)
哈爾濱工業大學	Harbin Institute of Technology
哈爾濱市	Harbin, sub-provincial city and capital of Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
哈爾登	Halden (city in Norway)
哈特福德	Hartford
哈珀	Harper (name)
哈瓦那	Havana, capital of Cuba
哈米吉多頓	Armageddon (in Revelation 16:16)
哈米爾卡	Hamilcar (c. 270-228 BC), Carthaginian statesman and general
哈羅	hello (loanword)
哈羅德	Harold, Harald, Harrod (name)
哈腰	to bend
哈莉·貝瑞	Halle Berry (1966-), US actress
哈萊姆	Harlem district of Manhattan
哈蒙德	(surname) Hammond
哈薩克	Kazakh ethnic group; (Tw, HK) Kazakhstan
哈薩克人	Kazakh person; Kazakh people
哈薩克文	Kazakh written language
哈薩克斯坦	Kazakhstan
哈薩克族	Kazakh ethnic group
哈薩克語	Kazakh language
哈蘇	Hasselblad (camera manufacturer)
哈西納	Ms Sheikh Hasina (1947-), Bangladesh politician, prime minister 1996-2001 and from 2009
哈該書	Book of Haggai
哈豐角	Cape Ras Hafun, Somalia, the easternmost point in Africa
哈貝爾	Habel, Haber or Hubbell (name); Harbel (town in Liberia)
哈貝馬斯	Jürgen Habermas (1929-), German social philosopher
哈迪	Hardy or Hardie (name)
哈迪斯	Hades
哈迷	Harry Potter fan (slang)
哈達	khata (Tibetan or Mongolian ceremonial scarf)
哈里	Harry or Hari (name)
哈里斯堡	Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
哈里森·施密特	Harrison Schmitt (Apollo 17 astronaut)
哈里發	(loanword) caliph; also written 哈利發|哈利发[ha1 li4 fa1]
哈里發國	caliphate
哈里發塔	Burj Khalifa, skyscraper in Dubai, 830 m high
哈里發帝國	Caliphate (Islamic empire formed after the death of the Prophet Muhammad 穆罕默德[Mu4 han3 mo4 de2] in 632)
哈雷彗星	Halley's Comet
哈靈根	Harlingen, the Netherlands
哈馬斯	Hamas (radical Palestinian group)
哈馬黑拉島	Halmahera, an island of Indonesia
哉	(exclamatory or interrogative particle)
哋	(Cant.) plural for pronouns
哌	used in transliteration
哌啶	piperidine (chemistry) (loanword)
哌嗪	piperazine (medicine) (loanword)
哌替啶	pethidine (aka meperidine or Demerol) (loanword)
哎	hey!
哎呀	interjection of wonder, shock or admiration
哎呦	(interjection of surprise, pain, annoyance etc); Oh my!; Uh-oh!
哎唷	interjection of pain or surprise; also written 哎喲|哎哟
哎喲	hey; ow; ouch
哏	also used as an exclamation of anger
哐	(onom.) crash; bang; clang
哐哐啷啷	(onom.) crash; clank; clatter
哐啷	(onom.) clang; clatter; bang; crash; clank
哚	used in 吲哚[yin3 duo3]
哞	moo (sound made by cow)
員	(bound form) person engaged in a certain field of activity
員外	landlord (old usage)
員工	staff; personnel; employee
員警	(Tw) police officer; policeman
員額	authorized number of employees; staff quota
哢	to sing or chirp (of birds); music sound
哤	jargon
哥	elder brother
哥倆	(coll.) two brothers; two close male friends
哥們	(coll.) dude; buddy; bro
哥們兒	erhua form of 哥們|哥们[ge1 men5]
哥倫布	Cristóbal Colón or Christopher Columbus (1451-1506)
哥倫比亞	Colombia (country in South America)
哥倫比亞大學	Columbia University
哥倫比亞廣播公司	Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS)
哥倫比亞特區	District of Columbia, USA
哥兒	brothers; boys
哥利亞	Goliath
哥吉拉	Godzilla (Tw)
哥哥	older brother
哥大	Columbia University (abbr.)
哥尼斯堡	Königsberg, Baltic port city, capital of East Prussia (until WWII)
哥布林	goblin (loanword)
哥德	(Tw) Gothic; (Tw) Goethe (1749–1832), German poet and playwright
哥德堡	Gothenburg (city in Sweden)
哥德巴赫猜想	the Goldbach conjecture in number theory
哥德式	(Tw) Gothic style
哥打巴魯	Kota Bharu, city in Malaysia on border with Thailand, capital of Kelantan sultanate
哥斯大黎加	(Tw) Costa Rica
哥斯拉	Godzilla
哥斯達黎加	Costa Rica
哥本哈根	Copenhagen or København, capital of Denmark
哥林多	(Protestantism) Corinth, city in Greece
哥林多前書	First epistle of St Paul to the Corinthians
哥林多後書	Second Epistle of St Paul to the Corinthians
哥特	(loanword) Gothic subculture or aesthetic
哥特人	Goth (member of a historical East Germanic people)
哥特式	Gothic (style in architecture, art, literature etc)
哥白尼	Mikolaj Kopernik or Nicolaus Copernicus (1473-1543), Polish astronomer, mathematician and polymath
哥羅芳	(loanword) chloroform; trichloromethane CHCl3
哥老會	late-Qing underground resistance movement against the Qing dynasty
哥薩克	Cossack (people)
哦	sentence-final particle that conveys informality, warmth, friendliness or intimacy
哦豁	(dialect) oops!; oh no!; oh snap!
哦買嘎	(loanword) oh my God!
哧	(onom.) giggling; breathing; tearing of paper, ripping of fabric etc
哧溜	(onom.) slithering; sliding; slipping
哨	a whistle; sentry
哨兵	sentinel
哨卡	border sentry post
哨子	whistle
哨子聲	whistling sound
哨所	watchhouse; sentry post
哨笛	a whistle
哩	(modal final particle similar to 呢[ne5] or 啦[la5])
哩哩啦啦	scattered; intermittent; sporadic
哩哩囉囉	verbose or unclear in speech; rambling and indistinct
哩哩羅羅	endless mumbling (onom.); verbose and incomprehensible
哩溜歪斜	crooked; deformed; twisted
哪	(emphatic sentence-final particle, used instead of 啊[a5] after a word ending in "n")
哪一個	which
哪些	which ones?; who?; what?
哪個	which; who
哪像	unlike; in contrast to
哪兒	where?; wherever; anywhere; somewhere
哪兒的話	(coll.) not at all (humble expression denying compliment)
哪兒跟哪兒	what's that have to do with it?; what's the connection?
哪吒	Nezha, protection deity
哪壺不開提哪壺	lit. mention the pot that doesn't boil (idiom); to touch a sore spot
哪怕	even; even if; even though
哪知	who would have imagined?; unexpectedly
哪知道	who would have thought that ...?
哪裏	where?; somewhere; anywhere
哪裡	where?; somewhere; anywhere
哪裡哪裡	you're too kind; you flatter me
哪門子	(coll.) (emphasizing a rhetorical question) what; what kind
哫	to cajole
哭	to cry; to weep
哭哭啼啼	to weep endlessly; interminable wailing
哭喊	to wail
哭喪	to wail at a funeral
哭喪棒	mourning staff draped in white, held at a funeral to show filial piety
哭喪臉	long face; miserable look
哭喪著臉	to pull a long face; to wear a mournful expression
哭天抹淚	to wail and whine; piteous weeping
哭得死去活來	to cry one's heart out
哭泣	to weep
哭牆	Wailing Wall, or Western Wall (Jerusalem)
哭秋風	autumnal sadness
哭窮	to bewail one's poverty; to complain about being hard up
哭笑不得	lit. not to know whether to laugh or cry (idiom)
哭聲	sound of weeping
哭腔	sobbing tone; sob; dirge
哭臉	to weep; to snivel
哭訴	to lament; to complain tearfully; to wail accusingly
哭靈	to weep before a coffin or a memorial to the dead
哭鬧	to bawl, disturbing others
哭鼻子	to snivel (usually humorous)
哮	pant; roar; bark (of animals)
哮喘	asthma
哮喘病	asthma
哮鳴	wheezing
哰	used in 㘓哰|𪢌哰[lan2 lao2]
哱	used in 呼哱哱[hu1 bo1 bo1]
哲	wise; a sage
哲人	wise man
哲人其萎	a wise man has passed away (idiom)
哲人石	philosopher's stone
哲學	philosophy
哲學博士	Doctor of Philosophy; PhD
哲學史	history of philosophy
哲學家	philosopher
哲思	philosophical reflection; contemplative philosophical thought
哲理	philosophic theory; philosophy
哲蚌寺	Drepung monastery, Lhasa, Tibet
哳	used in 嘲哳[zhao1 zha1] and 啁哳[zhao1 zha1]; Taiwan pr. [zha2]
哺	to feed
哺乳	breastfeeding; to suckle; to nurse
哺乳動物	mammal
哺乳期	breastfeeding period; lactation period; suckling period
哺乳綱	Mammalia, the class of mammals
哺乳類	mammals
哺母乳	breastfeeding
哺育	to feed; (fig.) to nurture; to foster
哺養	feed; rear
哼	interjection expressing dissatisfaction or suspicion
哼兒哈兒	to hem and haw (loanword)
哼哧	to puff hard (e.g. after running)
哼哼唧唧	whining; groaning; muttering
哼唧	whisper
哼唱	to hum; to croon
哼聲	hum
哽	to choke with emotion; to choke on a piece of food
哽咽	to choke with emotion; to choke with sobs
哽噎	to choke on one's food; to be choked up emotionally, unable to speak
哽死	(intransitive) to choke to death
哿	excellent; happy; well-being
唁	to extend condolences
唁信	a letter of condolence
唁函	a message of condolence
唁勞	to offer condolences; Taiwan pr. [yan4 lao4]
唁電	a telegram of condolence
唂	(onom.) bird call
唄	(bound form) to chant (from Sanskrit "pāṭhaka")
唅	(literary) to put in the mouth
唆	(bound form) to incite; to instigate
唇	lip
唇亡齒寒	lit. without the lips, the teeth feel the cold (idiom); fig. intimately interdependent
唇典	argot; codeword
唇印	lips-mark; hickey
唇形科	Labiatae, the taxonomic family including lavender, mint
唇彩	lip gloss; lip color gloss
唇槍舌劍	(idiom) to cross verbal swords; to have a heated verbal exchange
唇線筆	lip liner
唇膏	lip balm; lipstick
唇舌	argument; words; lips and tongue
唇蜜	lip gloss
唇裂	cleft lip
唇角	corner of the mouth; labial angle
唇讀	to lip-read; lipreading
唇釉	(cosmetics) liquid lipstick (typically with a glossier, lacquer-like finish compared to Western liquid lipsticks, though matte formulas also exist)
唇音	labial consonant
唇顎裂	cleft lip and palate
唇齒	(fig.) close partners; interdependent
唇齒相依	lit. as close as lips and teeth (idiom); closely related
唇齒音	labiodental (e.g. the consonant f in standard Chinese)
唈	palpitation; short breathing
唉	interjection or grunt of agreement or recognition (e.g. yes, it's me!)
唉唉	(onom.) sighing voice; crying sound
唉姐	granny (dialect)
唉聲嘆氣	sighing voice, wailing breath (idiom); to heave deep sighs
唊	(old) to talk recklessly; to talk nonsense; talkative
唎	(final particle); sound; noise
唏	sound of sobbing
唏噓	(onom.) to sigh; to sob
唐	Tang dynasty (618–907); surname Tang
唐三藏	Tripitaka, the central character of the 16th century novel "Journey to the West" 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 ji4], based on the monk Xuanzang 玄奘[Xuan2 zang4] (602–664)
唐中宗	Emperor Zhongzong of Tang, reign name of fourth Tang emperor Li Zhe 李哲[Li3 Zhe2] (656-710), reigned 705-710
唐人	(used in overseas Cantonese communities) Chinese person
唐人街	Chinatown
唐代	Tang dynasty (618–907)
唐代宗	Emperor Taizong of Tang (727-779), reign name of ninth Tang emperor Li Yu 李豫[Li3 Yu4], reigned 762-779
唐伯虎	Tang Bohu or Tang Yin 唐寅 (1470-1523), Ming painter and poet, one of Four great southern talents of the Ming 江南四大才子
唐僖宗	Emperor Xizong of Tang, reign name of nineteenth Tang Emperor Li Xuan 李儇[Li3 Xuan1] (862-888), reigned 873-888
唐僧	Xuanzang (602-664) Tang dynasty Buddhist monk and translator, who traveled to India 629-645
唐初四大家	Four Great Calligraphers of early Tang
唐卡	thangka (Tibetan Buddhist scroll painting)
唐古拉	Dangla or Tanggula mountain range on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau 青藏高原[Qing1 Zang4 gao1 yuan2]
唐古拉山	Dangla or Tanggula Mountains on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau
唐古拉山脈	Dangla or Tanggula Mountains on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau
唐吉訶德	Don Quixote; also written 堂吉訶德|堂吉诃德[Tang2 ji2 he1 de2]
唐哀帝	Emperor Aidi of Tang, reign name of twenty-first and last Tang emperor Li Zhu 李祝[Li3 Zhu4] (892-908), reigned 904-907
唐堯	Yao or Tang Yao (c. 2200 BC), one of Five Legendary Emperors 五帝[wu3 di4], second son of Di Ku 帝嚳|帝喾[Di4 Ku4]
唐太宗	Emperor Taizong of Tang, reign name of second Tang emperor Li Shimin 李世民[Li3 Shi4 min2] (599-649), reigned 626-649
唐太宗李衛公問對	"Duke Li of Wei Answering Emperor Taizong of Tang", military treatise attributed to Li Jing 李靖[Li3 Jing4] and one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1]
唐宋	the Tang (618-907) and Song (960-1279) dynasties
唐宋八大家	the eight giants of Tang and Song prose, esp. involved in the Classics movement 古文運動|古文运动[gu3 wen2 yun4 dong4], namely: Han Yu 韓愈|韩愈[Han2 Yu4], Liu Zongyuan 柳宗元[Liu3 Zong1 yuan2], Ouyang Xiu 歐陽修|欧阳修[Ou1 yang2 Xiu1], the three Su's 三蘇|三苏[San1 Su1], Wang Anshi 王安石[Wang2 An1 shi2], Zeng Gong 曾鞏|曾巩[Zeng1 Gong3]
唐宣宗	Emperor Xuanzong of Tang (810-859), reign name of seventeenth Tang emperor Li Chen 李忱[Li3 Chen2], reigned 846-859
唐家山	area in Beichuan county Sichuan
唐家璇	Tang Jiaxuan (1938-), politician and diplomat
唐寅	Tang Bohu 唐伯虎 or Tang Yin (1470-1523), Ming painter and poet, one of Four great southern talents of the Ming 江南四大才子
唐寧街	Downing Street (London)
唐山	China (a name for China used by some overseas Chinese)
唐山大地震	Great Tangshan Earthquake (1976)
唐山市	Tangshan, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
唐德宗	Emperor Dezong of Tang (742-805), reign name of tenth Tang emperor Li Kuo 李适[Li3 Kuo4], reigned 779-805
唐恩都樂	Dunkin' Donuts
唐憲宗	Emperor Xianzong of Tang (778-820), reign name of twelfth Tang emperor Li Chun 李純|李纯[Li3 Chun2] reigned 805-820
唐懿宗	Emperor Yizong of Tang (833-873), reign name of eighteenth Tang emperor Li Cui 李漼[Li3 Cui3], reigned 859-873
唐手道	Tang soo do (Korean martial art)
唐招提寺	Toushoudaiji, the temple in Nara, Japan founded by Tang dynastic Buddhist monk Jianzhen or Ganjin 鑒真和尚|鉴真和尚 and his last resting place
唐揚	Japanese-style fried food, usually chicken (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 唐揚げ "karaage")
唐敬宗	Emperor Jingzong of Tang (809-827), reign name of fourteenth Tang emperor 李湛[Li3 Zhan4], reigned 825-827
唐文宗	Emperor Wenzong of Tang (809-840), reign name of fifteenth Tang emperor 李昂[Li3 Ang2], reigned 827-840
唐明皇	Emperor Ming of Tang (685-762), also known as Emperor Xuanzong of Tang 唐玄宗[Tang2 Xuan2 zong1], reigned 712-756
唐昭宗	Emperor Zhaozong of Tang, reign name of twentieth Tang emperor 李曄|李晔[Li1 Ye4] (867-904), reigned 888-904
唐書	same as 舊唐書|旧唐书[Jiu4 Tang2 shu1], History of the Early Tang Dynasty, sixteenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Liu Xu 劉昫|刘昫[Liu2 Xu4] in 945 during Later Jin 後晉|后晋[Hou4 Jin4] of the Five Dynasties, 200 scrolls
唐朝	Tang dynasty (618-907)
唐末	late Tang period (9th century)
唐棣	shadbush or shadberry (genus Amelanchier)
唐樓	tenement building, typically of 2-4 stories, with a shop on the ground floor and upper floors used for residential purposes (esp. in southern China)
唐武宗	Emperor Wuzong of Tang (814-846), reign name of sixteenth Tang emperor Li Chan 李瀍[Li3 Chan2], reigned 840-846
唐殤帝	Emperor Shang of Tang, reign name of fifth Tang emperor Li Chongmao 李重茂[Li3 Chong2 mao4] (c. 695-715), reigned 710
唐氏兒	child with Down syndrome
唐氏症	(Tw) Down syndrome
唐氏綜合症	Down syndrome
唐河縣	Tanghe, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
唐狗	mongrel
唐玄宗	Tang Emperor Xuanzong (685-762), also known as Emperor Ming of Tang 唐明皇[Tang2 Ming2 huang2], reign name of seventh Tang emperor 李隆基[Li3 Long1 ji1], reigned 712-756
唐璜	a dandy; a fop; Don Juan
唐睿宗	Emperor Ruizong of Tang, reign name of sixth Tang emperor Li Dan 李旦[Li3 Dan4] (662-716), reigned 684-690 and 710-712
唐穆宗	Emperor Muzong of Tang (795-825), reign name of thirteenth Tang emperor 李恆|李恒[Li3 Heng2] reigned 821-825
唐突	to be rude; to treat irreverently
唐納	Tanner or Donald (name)
唐納·川普	(Tw) Donald Trump (1946-), American business magnate, US president 2017-2021
唐納德	(name) Donald
唐紹儀	Tang Shaoyi (1862-1939), politician and diplomat
唐縣	Tang County or Tangxian, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
唐老鴨	Donald Duck
唐肅宗	Emperor Suzong of Tang (711-762), reign name of eighth Tang emperor Li Heng 李亨[Li3 Heng1], reigned 756-762
唐花	hothouse flower (i.e. flower grown in a greenhouse)
唐裝	Tang suit (traditional Chinese jacket)
唐詩	Tang poetry; a Tang poem
唐詩三百首	Three Hundred Tang Poems, an anthology collected around 1763 by Sun Zhu 孫誅|孙诛[Sun1 Zhu1]
唐順宗	Emperor Shunzong of Tang (761-806), reign name of eleventh Tang emperor Li Song 李誦|李诵[Li3 Song4], reigned 805-806
唐高宗	Emperor Gaozong of Tang, reign name of third Tang emperor Li Zhi 李治[Li3 Zhi4] (628-683), reigned 649-683
唐高祖	Emperor Gaozu of Tang, reign name of first Tang emperor Li Yuan 李淵|李渊[Li3 Yuan1] (566-635), reigned 618-626
唑	azole (chemistry)
唔	oh (expression of agreement or surprise); (Cantonese) not
唚	to vomit (of dogs and cats); to rail against; to talk nonsense
唞	to take a rest (Cantonese)
唣	used in 囉唣|啰唣[luo2 zao4]
唧	(onom.) to pump (water)
唧咕	(onom.) whisper
唧唧	(onom.) chirping of insects, sighing noise etc
唧唧喳喳	(onom.) chattering or giggling
唧唧嘎嘎	(onom.) cackling; creaking
唧啾	(onom.) babble; twittering of birds
唧筒	a pump; water pump
唧筒座	Antlia (constellation)
唪	recite; chant
唫	to stutter; to shut one's mouth; Taiwan pr. [yin2]
唬	a tiger's roar; to scare; to intimidate
唬人	to scare people; to bluff; to deceive
唬弄	to fool; to deceive
唬爛	(slang) (Tw) to bullshit; to fool
售	(bound form) to sell; to retail
售價	selling price
售完	to sell out
售完即止	while stocks last; subject to availability
售後	(attributive) after-sales; post-sale; after-sales service
售後服務	after-sales service
售票	to sell tickets
售票口	ticket window
售票員	ticket seller
售票處	ticket office
售罄	to be completely sold out; to sell out
售貨	to sell goods
售貨員	sales clerk; sales associate; retail salesperson
售貨臺	vendor's stall
售賣	to sell
唯	only; alone
唯一	only; sole
唯一性	uniqueness
唯二	(slang) (adjective) (of one thing) one of the only two; (of two things) the only two
唯利是圖	(idiom) to be bent solely on profit; to put profit before everything else
唯命是從	to follow obediently
唯唯諾諾	(idiom) to be a yes-man
唯心主義	philosophy of idealism, the doctrine that external reality is a product of consciousness
唯心論	philosophy of idealism, the doctrine that external reality is a product of consciousness
唯恐	for fear that; lest; also written 惟恐
唯恐天下不亂	to wish for the whole world to be in chaos (idiom)
唯意志論	voluntarism
唯有	only
唯物	materialistic
唯物主義	materialism, philosophical doctrine that physical matter is the whole of reality
唯物論	(philosophy) materialism
唯獨	only; just (i.e. it is only that...); all except
唯理論	(philosophy) rationalism
唯粉	fan who only likes one particular member of a pop idol band
唯美	aesthetics
唯識宗	Yogachara school of Buddhism ("consciousness only" school of Buddhism)
唯讀	read-only (computing)
唯象	phenomenological
唯象理論	phenomenology
唯飯	fan who only likes one particular member of a pop idol band
唰	(onom.) swishing; rustling
唱	to sing; to call loudly; to chant
唱K	(slang) to sing karaoke
唱作人	singer-songwriter
唱功	singing skill
唱反調	to express a different view; to take a different position
唱名	solfege
唱和	antiphon (i.e. solo voice answered by chorus)
唱商	one's ability to give a convincing performance of a song
唱喏	(old) to bow and utter polite phrases
唱對臺戲	to put on a rival show (idiom); to set oneself up against sb
唱念	(of a waiter) to call out (a customer's order to the kitchen)
唱戲	to perform in opera
唱曲	to sing a song
唱本	opera libretto
唱機	gramophone
唱歌	to sing a song
唱段	aria (in opera)
唱法	singing style; singing method
唱片	gramophone record; LP; music CD
唱白臉	to play the role of the villain (idiom)
唱盤	turntable; gramophone record
唱碟	gramophone record; LP
唱票	to read ballot slips out loud
唱空城計	(lit.) to sing "The Empty City Stratagem" (idiom)
唱紅臉	to play the role of the hero (idiom); to play the good cop
唱腔	vocal music (in opera); aria
唱臂	tone-arm (tracking arm of gramophone)
唱衰	to express pessimistic views about (sth)
唱詞	libretto; lyrics
唱詩班	choir
唱針	stylus (needle) of a record player
唱雙簧	lit. to sing a duet; fig. to collaborate with sb
唱頭	pickup (cartridge assembly of a vinyl record player)
唱高調	to sing the high part; to speak fine sounding but empty words (idiom)
唱黑臉	to play the role of the strict parent (or superior etc)
唲	forced laughter
唳	cry of a crane or wild goose
唵	(interjection) oh!; (dialect) to stuff sth in one's mouth
唵嘛呢叭咪吽	om mani padme hum (Buddhist mantra)
唶	sigh; groan; loud laughter
唷	final particle expressing exhortation, admiration etc
唹	to smile at
唻	(dialect) modal particle similar to 呢[ne5], 啦[la5] or 來著|来着[lai2 zhe5]
唼	to speak evil; gobbling sound made by ducks
唾	saliva; to spit
唾手可得	easily obtained; readily available
唾棄	to spurn; to disdain
唾沫	spittle; saliva
唾沫星子	sputter
唾液	saliva
唾液腺	salivary gland
唾罵	to spit on and curse; to revile
唾腺	(anatomy) salivary gland
唾面自乾	to be spat on in the face and let it dry by itself, not wiping it off (idiom); to turn the other cheek
唾餘	crumbs from the table of one's master; castoffs; bits of rubbish
唿	to whistle (with fingers in one's mouth)
唿哨	to whistle (with fingers in one's mouth); nowadays written 呼哨
唿喇	whoosh
唿喇喇	roar of the wind
啁	used in 啁哳[zhao1 zha1]; Taiwan pr. [zhou1]
啁哳	(literary) (onom.) combined twittering and chirping of many birds
啁啾	(bird) twitter; chirp
啃	to gnaw; to nibble; to bite
啃書	lit. to gnaw a book; to study; to cram
啃老	(coll.) to live with and depend on one's parents even upon reaching adulthood
啃老族	(coll.) adults still living with and depending on their parents
啄	to peck
啄木鳥	woodpecker
啄羊鸚鵡	kea (Nestor notabilis)
啄花鳥	flowerpecker (any bird of the family Dicaeidae)
啄食	(of a bird) to peck at food
啅	chirp
商	Shang Dynasty (c. 1600–1046 BC); surname Shang
商丘市	Shangqiu, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
商事	commercial affairs
商人	merchant; businessman
商人銀行	merchant bank
商代	the prehistoric Shang dynasty (c. 16th-11th century BC)
商兌	to discuss and deliberate
商務	commercial affairs; commercial; commerce
商務中心區	central business district (e.g. CBD of Beijing)
商務印書館	The Commercial Press, Beijing (est. 1897)
商務漢語考試	Business Chinese Test (BCT)
商務艙	business class (travel class on airplanes, trains etc)
商務部	Department of Trade; Department of Commerce
商南縣	Shangnan, a county in Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
商君書	The Book of Lord Shang, Legalist text of the 4th century BC
商品	commodity; goods; merchandise
商品價值	commodity value
商品化	commodification
商品糧	commodity grain (grain produced as a commodity rather than for self-sufficiency)
商品經濟	commodity economy
商圈	commercial district; business district
商城	shopping center; department store
商城縣	Shangcheng, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
商域	field of fractions (math.)
商埠	commercial port; trading port; treaty port (old)
商報	business newspaper
商場	shopping mall; shopping center; department store
商女	female singer (archaic)
商學	business studies; commerce as an academic subject
商學院	business school; university of business studies
商定	to agree; to decide after consultation; to come to a compromise
商家	merchant; business; enterprise
商展	trade show; exhibition of goods
商州區	Shangzhou, a district of Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
商店	store; shop
商戰	trade war
商戶	merchant; trader; businessman; firm
商數	(math.) quotient
商旅	businessmen and travelers; traveling merchant; (Tw) business hotel
商會	chamber of commerce
商朝	Shang Dynasty (c. 1600-1046 BC)
商棧	inn; caravansary
商業	business; trade; commerce
商業中心	business center; commerce center
商業化	to commercialize
商業區	business district; downtown
商業應用	business application
商業模式	business model
商業機構	commercial organization
商業版本	commercial version (of software)
商業發票	commercial invoice
商業管理	business administration
商業行為	business activity; commercial activity
商業計劃	business plan
商業銀行	commercial bank
商榷	to discuss; to bring up various ideas for discussion
商標	trademark; logo
商機	business opportunity; commercial opportunity
商檢	to inspect goods
商民	merchant
商水縣	Shangshui, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
商河縣	Shanghe, a county in Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
商洛市	Shangluo, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
商洽	to parley; to negotiate; to discuss
商港	commercial port; trading harbor
商湯	Shang Tang (1646-? BC), legendary founder of the Shang Dynasty
商湯科技	SenseTime, artificial intelligence company focused on computer vision and deep learning technologies, founded in Hong Kong in 2014
商演	commercial performance
商用	(attributive) commercial
商界	business world; business community
商祺	May your business prosper! (formal letter-ending phrase)
商科	Shangke corporation, PRC IT company (since 1994)
商科院校	Business school
商科集團	Shangke Corporation, PRC IT company (since 1994)
商稅	tax on trade
商紂王	King Zhou of Shang (11th century BC), notorious as a cruel tyrant
商約	trade treaty (abbr. for 通商條約|通商条约[tong1 shang1 tiao2 yue1])
商船	merchant ship
商號	store; a business
商行	trading company
商計	to negotiate; to discuss
商討	to discuss; to deliberate
商調	to negotiate the transfer of personnel
商談	to confer; to discuss; to engage in talks
商議	to negotiate; discussion; proposal
商譽	(commerce) prestige; reputation; (accounting) goodwill
商販	trader; peddler
商貿	trade and commerce
商賈	merchant
商超	superstore – a hybrid retail format combining department store 商場|商场[shang1 chang3] (branded goods) and supermarket 超市[chao1 shi4] (self-service groceries)
商路	trade route
商辦	to consult and act upon; privately run; commercial
商都縣	Shangdu, a county in Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
商酌	to deliberate
商量	to consult; to talk over; to discuss
商鋪	shop; store
商隊	caravan
商鞅	Shang Yang (c. 390-338 BC), legalist philosopher and statesman of the state of Qin 秦國|秦国[Qin2 guo2], whose reforms paved the way for the eventual unification of the Chinese empire by the Qin dynasty 秦朝|秦朝[Qin2 chao2]
商鞅變法	Shang Yang's political reform of Qin state 秦國|秦国 of 356 BC and 350 BC, that put it on the road to world domination
啉	used in the transliteration of the names of organic compounds such as porphyrin 卟啉[bu3 lin2] and quinoline 喹啉[kui2 lin2]
啊	modal particle ending sentence, showing affirmation, approval, or consent
啊呀	interjection of surprise; Oh my!
啊喲	interjection of surprise or pain; Oh; Ow
啍	move slowly
啎	obstinate, disobedient, intractable
問	to ask; to inquire
問世	to be published; to come out
問事	to ask for information; to inquire
問住	to stump sb with a question
問倒	to stump; to baffle
問候	to give one's respects; to send a greeting
問卷	questionnaire
問名	to enquire, according to custom, after the name and horoscope of intended bride
問好	to say hello to; to send one's regards to
問安	to pay one's respects; to give regards to
問客殺雞	lit. asking guests whether or not to butcher a chicken for them (idiom)
問寒問暖	(idiom) to show concern about sb's well-being
問市	to hit the market
問心有愧	to have a guilty conscience
問心無愧	lit. look into one's heart, no shame (idiom); with a clear conscience
問津	to make inquiries (mostly used in the negative)
問答	question and answer
問罪	to denounce; to condemn; to call to account
問罪之師	punitive force; a person setting out to deliver severe reproach
問荊	field horsetail (Equisetum arvense)
問號	question mark (punct.); unknown factor; unsolved problem
問訊	interrogation; greeting
問診	(TCM) interrogation, one of the four methods of diagnosis 四診|四诊[si4 zhen3]
問話	to ask sb a question; question
問責	to hold accountable; to blame; to censure; to apportion blame
問責性	accountability
問路	to ask for directions; to ask the way (to some place)
問道	to ask the way; to ask
問道於盲	lit. to ask a blind man the way (idiom)
問題	question; problem; issue
問鼎	to aspire to the throne; to aim at (the first place etc)
問鼎中原	to plan to seize power of the whole country (idiom)
問鼎輕重	lit. to inquire whether the tripods are light or heavy (idiom); a laughable attempt to seize power
啐	to spit; (onom.) pshaw!; (old) to sip
啕	(bound form) to wail
啖	to eat; to taste; to entice (using bait)
啜	(literary) to drink; to sip; to sob
啜泣	to sob
啜飲	to sip
啞	mute; dumb; incapable of speech; (of a voice) hoarse; husky
啞光	matte; non-glossy
啞劇	pantomime; mime show
啞口	as if dumb; speechless
啞口無言	dumbstruck and unable to reply (idiom)
啞子	(dialect) a mute (person)
啞巴	a mute; mute; silent
啞巴吃黃連	no choice but to suffer in silence (idiom); also written 啞巴吃黃蓮|哑巴吃黄莲
啞巴吃黃連，有苦說不出	to be forced to suffer in silence (idiom)
啞巴虧	pent-up unspoken grievances
啞彈	dud
啞然失笑	to laugh involuntarily; Taiwan pr. [e4 ran2 shi1 xiao4]
啞終端	dumb terminal
啞語	sign language
啞謎	puzzle; mystery
啞鈴	dumbbell (weight)
啞點	blind spot; dead spot
啞鼓	drum practice pad (music); a practice drum (music)
啟	Qi son of Yu the Great 禹[Yu3], reported founder of the Xia Dynasty 夏朝[Xia4 Chao2] (c. 2070-c. 1600 BC)
啟事	announcement (written, on billboard, letter, newspaper or website)
啟動	to start (a machine); (fig.) to set in motion
啟動區	boot sector (computing)
啟動子	promoter
啟奏	to submit a report to the king; to talk to the king
啟封	to open sth that has been sealed
啟德機場	Kai Tak Airport, international airport of Hong Kong from 1925 to 1998
啟應祈禱	Introitus (section of Catholic mass)
啟明	Classical Chinese name for planet Venus in the east before dawn
啟明星	(astronomy) Venus
啟東市	Qidong, a county-level city in Nantong City 南通市[Nan2 tong1 Shi4], Jiangsu
啟海話	Qihai dialect, a Wu dialect spoken in Tongzhou, Haimen, and Qidong districts in southern Jiangsu province, and on Chongming Island in Shanghai
啟用	to start using; (computing) to enable (a feature)
啟發	to enlighten; to explain (a text etc)
啟發式	heuristic
啟發法	heuristic method; heuristics
啟矇	to instruct the young
啟示	to reveal; to enlighten; enlightenment
啟示者	revelator
啟示錄	the Revelation of St John the divine; the Apocalypse
啟程	to set out on a journey
啟航	(of a ship) to set sail; (of an airplane) to take off
啟蒙	to instruct the young; to initiate; to awake sb from ignorance
啟蒙主義	Enlightenment (philosophy)
啟蟄	Waking from Hibernation
啟迪	to edify; enlightenment
啟運	to ship (goods)
啟齒	to open one's mouth; to start talking
啡	(used in loanwords for its phonetic value)
啢	ounce (British imperial system) (old)
啤	beer
啤酒	beer (loanword)
啤酒廠	brewery
啤酒節	Beer Festival
啤酒肚	beer belly
啤酒花	hops
啥	dialectal equivalent of 什麼|什么[shen2 me5]; also pr. [sha4]
啥子	(dialect) what
啦	(onom.) sound of singing, cheering etc; (phonetic); (dialect) to chat
啦啦隊	cheerleading squad
啦啦隊長	cheerleader
啪	(onom.) bang; pop; pow
啪啪啪	(slang) to have sex; jig-a-jig
啪噠	(onom.) sound of object falling into water; plop
啪嚓	(onom.) (sound of sth smashing as it hits the ground)
啫	used in 啫哩[zhe3 li1]
啫喱	(loanword) jelly; gel
啱	correct; suitable; to suit sb
啲	some; few; a little (Cantonese)
啵	grammatical particle equivalent to 吧
啵啵	(onom.) bubbling noise
啶	idine (chemistry)
啷	used in 啷當|啷当[lang1 dang1]
啷當	(dialect) (of age) more or less; or so; (dialect) and so on
啻	only (classical, usually follows negative or question words)
啼	(bound form) to cry; to weep loudly
啼哭	to cry; to wail
啼囀	to call sweetly (of birds)
啼笑皆非	lit. not to know whether to laugh or cry (idiom)
啼聲	ululation; to howl
啼饑號寒	(idiom) to cry from hunger and cold; to suffer extreme poverty
啽	to speak (Cantonese)
啾	(onom.) wailing of child; chirp; kiss (Tw)
喀	(onom.) sound of coughing or vomiting
喀什噶爾	Kashgar or Qeshqer (Chinese Kashi) in the west of Xinjiang near Kyrgyzstan
喀什地區	Kashgar, prefecture in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
喀什市	Kashgar, a county-level city in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
喀啦喀啦	(onom.) clank
喀喇崑崙公路	Karakorum Highway, linking Pakistan and Xinjiang
喀喇崑崙山	Karakorum mountain range in west Xinjiang
喀喇崑崙山脈	Karakorum mountain range in west Xinjiang
喀喇沁	Harqin (Mongol: guard)
喀喇沁左翼蒙古族自治縣	Harqin Left Mongol autonomous county in Chaoyang 朝陽|朝阳[Chao2 yang2], Liaoning
喀喇沁旗	Harqin banner or Kharchin khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
喀噠	(onom.) click
喀嚓	(onom.) breaking or snapping
喀土穆	Khartoum, capital of Sudan
喀奴特	Knuth or Canute (name)
喀山	Kazan
喀布爾	Kabul, capital of Afghanistan
喀拉喀托	Krakatoa island and volcano in the Sunda Strait
喀拉喀托火山	Krakatoa (volcanic island in Indonesia)
喀拉崑崙山	Karakorum mountains
喀拉拉邦	Kerala (state in India)
喀拉汗國	Karakhan Dynasty of central Asia, 8th-10th century
喀拉汗王朝	Karakhan dynasty of central Asia, 8th-10th century
喀斯特	(geology) (loanword) karst
喀爾喀	Khalkha, largest subgroup of Mongol people
喀爾巴阡山脈	Carpathian Mountains, 1500-km mountain range in Central and Eastern Europe
喀秋莎	Katyusha (name); name of a Russian wartime song
喀納斯湖	Kanas Lake in Xinjiang
喀麥隆	Cameroon; Taiwan pr. [Ka4mai4long2]
喁	(literary) (onom.) response chant, echoing another's chanted words
喁喁	(literary) looking up expectantly
喂	hey; to feed (an animal, baby, invalid etc)
喃	mumble in repetition
喃喃	(onom.) to mutter; to mumble; to murmur
喃喃自語	to mumble to oneself
喃字	Vietnam characters (like Chinese characters but native to Vietnam)
善	good (virtuous); benevolent; well-disposed
善事	good deeds
善人	philanthropist; charitable person; well-doer
善哉	excellent
善因	(Buddhism) good karma
善始善終	where there's a start, there's a finish (idiom); to finish once one starts sth
善存	Centrum (brand)
善待	to treat well
善後	to deal with the aftermath (arising from an accident)
善後借款	reconstruction loan provided by Great Powers to Yuan Shikai in 1913
善心	kindness; benevolence; philanthropy
善忘	to be forgetful; to have a short memory
善思	thoughtfulness; wholesome thinking (Buddhism)
善惡	good and evil; good versus evil
善意	goodwill; benevolence; kindness
善意的謊言	white lie
善感	sensitive; emotional
善於	to be good at; to be adept at
善有善報	virtue has its rewards (idiom); one good turn deserves another
善有善報，惡有惡報	virtue has its reward, evil its retribution
善本	old book; good book; reliable book
善款	contributions; donations
善用	to be good at using (sth); to put (sth) to good use
善男信女	lay practitioners of Buddhism
善策	wise policy; best policy
善終	to die naturally with dignity; to pass away peacefully
善緣	good karma
善罷甘休	(idiom) to let the matter rest; to just let it go; to take it lying down (usu. used in the negative)
善能	to be good at
善自保重	take good care of yourself!
善自為謀	to be good at working for one's own profit (idiom)
善自珍攝	take good care of yourself! (idiom)
善舉	meritorious deed; benevolent act
善良	good and honest; kindhearted
善行	good actions
善解人意	to be good at understanding others (idiom)
善言	good words
善言辭	articulate; eloquent
善變	fickle; mercurial; changeable
善財	to cherish wealth
善財難捨	to cherish wealth and find it hard to give up (idiom); refusing to contribute to charity
善辯	eloquent; good at arguing
善風	fair wind
喇	(onom.) sound of wind, rain etc
喇叭	horn (automobile etc); loudspeaker; brass wind instrument
喇叭形	flared; funnel-shape; trumpet-shape
喇叭水仙	daffodil
喇叭花	morning glory
喇叭裙	flared skirt
喇叭褲	flared trousers; bell-bottomed pants
喇合	(Protestantism) Rahab, mother of Boaz
喇嘛	lama, spiritual teacher in Tibetan Buddhism
喇嘛廟	lamasery; temple of Tibetan Buddhism
喇嘛教	Lamaism; Tibetan Buddhism
喇沙	La Salle (used in the names of schools etc)
喇舌	(Tw) French kissing; to waggle one's tongue around (from Taiwanese 抐舌, Tai-lo pr. [lā-tsi̍h])
喇賽	(Tw) (slang) to chat idly; to gossip (from Taiwanese 抐屎, Tai-lo pr. [lā-sái])
喈	harmonious (of music)
喉	throat; larynx
喉咽	laryngopharynx; fig. a key position
喉嚨	the throat
喉塞音	glottal stop
喉擦音	guttural fricative
喉炎	laryngitis
喉片	throat lozenge
喉痧	scarlet fever
喉管	the airway in the throat
喉結	Adam's apple; laryngeal prominence
喉舌	mouthpiece; spokesperson
喉輪	viśuddha or visuddha, the throat chakra 查克拉, residing in the neck
喉部	neck; throat
喉鏡	laryngoscope
喉音	guttural sound; (linguistics) glottal (or laryngeal) consonant
喉韻	pleasant aftertaste in the back of the throat (esp. when drinking tea)
喉頭	throat; larynx
喉鳴	throat sound such as choking, donkey's bray etc
喊	to yell; to shout; to call out for (a person)
喊住	to stop (sb) by calling out to them
喊冤	to cry out a grievance
喊叫	to cry out; to shout
喊聲	to yell; hubbub
喊話	to speak using a loud voice or megaphone etc
喊話器	megaphone
喊道	to yell
喋	used in 喋喋[die2 die2]; used in 喋血[die2 xue4]
喋喋	to chatter endlessly
喋喋不休	(idiom) to chatter endlessly; to talk nonstop
喋血	(literary) bloodbath; carnage
喌	syllable
喎	awry (mouth); askew; Taiwan pr. [kuai1]
喏	(indicating agreement) yes; all right; (drawing attention to) look!
喑	mute
喑啞	hoarse; raspy
喓	grasshopper chirp; mosquito buzz
喔	(Tw) (sentence-final particle) (used to convey a friendly tone when giving an admonition or correcting sb etc)
喘	to gasp; to pant; asthma
喘不過	to be unable to breathe easily
喘不過氣來	to be unable to breathe
喘吁吁	to puff and blow
喘息	to gasp for breath; to take a breather
喘振	(of turbomachinery) to surge; to pulsate
喘氣	to breathe deeply; to pant; to gasp
喘粗氣	to pant heavily
喙	beak; snout; mouth
喚	to call
喚作	to be called; to be known as
喚做	to be called; to be referred to as
喚起	to waken (to action); to rouse (the masses)
喚醒	to wake sb; to rouse
喚頭	percussion instrument used by street peddlers, barbers etc to attract attention
喜	to be fond of; to like; to enjoy
喜不自勝	unable to contain one's joy (idiom)
喜不自禁	unable to contain one's joy (idiom)
喜事	happy occasion; wedding
喜人	pleasing; gratifying
喜來登	Sheraton (hotel chain)
喜出望外	to be pleased beyond one's expectations (idiom)
喜則氣緩	joy depresses one's qi vital breath
喜劇	a comedy
喜力	Heineken (Dutch brewing company)
喜吟吟	joyful; happy
喜喜歡歡	happily
喜喪	peaceful death at a very advanced age
喜報	announcement of joyful news
喜壽	77th birthday (honorific, archaic or Japanese term)
喜大普奔	(of news etc) so thrilling that everyone is rejoicing and spreading the word (Internet slang)
喜好	to like; fond of; to prefer
喜娘	matron of honor (old)
喜孜孜	pleased; happy
喜宴	wedding banquet
喜山白眉朱雀	(bird species of China) Himalayan white-browed rosefinch (Carpodacus thura)
喜山紅眉朱雀	(bird species of China) Himalayan beautiful rosefinch (Carpodacus pulcherrimus)
喜山鵟	(bird species of China) Himalayan buzzard (Buteo refectus)
喜山點翅朱雀	(bird species of China) spot-winged rosefinch (Carpodacus rodopeplus)
喜帕	bridal veil (covering the face)
喜帖	wedding invitation
喜幛	celebratory hanging scroll
喜形於色	face light up with delight (idiom); to beam with joy
喜從天降	joy from heaven (idiom); overjoyed at unexpected good news
喜德縣	Xide, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
喜怒哀樂	(lit.) happiness, anger, sorrow, and joy (idiom); (fig.) emotions
喜怒無常	temperamental; moody
喜悅	happy; joyous
喜惡	likes and dislikes
喜愛	to like; to love; to be fond of
喜感	comicality; comical; (Buddhism) joy
喜慶	jubilation; festive
喜憂參半	to have mixed feelings (about sth)
喜憨兒	(Tw) intellectually impaired child or youth (affectionate term)
喜提	(neologism c. 2018) to be thrilled to receive; to excitedly take delivery of
喜新厭舊	lit. to like the new, and hate the old (idiom); fig. enamored with new people (e.g. new girlfriend), bored with the old
喜極而泣	crying tears of joy (idiom)
喜樂	joy
喜歌劇院	musical theater; Opéra Comique, Paris
喜歡	to like; to be fond of; to be happy; to be pleased; to tend to
喜氣	hilarity; cheerful atmosphere
喜氣洋洋	full of joy (idiom); jubilation
喜洋洋	radiant with joy
喜滋滋	pleased; happy
喜當爹	(neologism c. 2012) (slang) to become a stepfather when one's partner turns out to be pregnant with a child she conceived with another lover
喜盈盈	happy; joyful
喜笑	to laugh; laughter
喜笑顏開	grinning from ear to ear (idiom); beaming with happiness
喜筵	wedding banquet; congratulatory feast
喜糖	sweet given on a happy occasion (esp. wedding)
喜結良緣	(idiom) to get happily married; to form an auspicious union
喜結連理	to tie the knot (idiom); to get married
喜群游	(ichthyology) gregarious
喜群飛	(ornithology) gregarious
喜聞樂見	to love to hear and see (idiom); well received; to one's liking
喜興	joyous; delighted; merry
喜色	happy expression; cheerful look
喜蛋	red-painted eggs, traditional celebratory gift on third day after birth of new baby
喜衝衝	to beam with joy; in a happy mood
喜訊	good news; glad tidings
喜躍	to jump for joy
喜躍抃舞	(idiom) to clap and dance in joy
喜車	wedding car; carriage for collecting the bride
喜酒	wedding feast; liquor drunk at a wedding feast
喜錢	tip given on a happy occasion (traditional)
喜陽	heliophile; tending towards the sun; heliotropism
喜雨	welcome fall of rain; seasonable rain
喜餅	double happiness cakes, pastries offered by a man to his fiancée's family at the time of their engagement
喜馬拉雅	the Himalayas
喜馬拉雅中杜鵑	(bird species of China) Himalayan cuckoo (Cuculus saturatus)
喜馬拉雅山	Himalayas
喜馬拉雅山脈	Himalayas
喜鵲	magpie
喝	to drink
喝令	to shout an order or command
喝倒彩	to boo or jeer (as a sign of displeasure at an actor)
喝光	to drink up; to finish (a drink)
喝彩	to acclaim; to cheer
喝掉	to drink up; to finish (a drink)
喝掛	(coll.) to get drunk; to get hammered
喝斷片	to get blackout drunk (slang)
喝止	to shout at sb to stop
喝涼水都塞牙	(coll.) to be out of luck
喝茫	(slang) to get drunk (Tw)
喝茶	to drink tea; to get engaged; to have a serious conversation
喝西北風	(lit.) to drink the northwest wind (idiom)
喝道	to shout (i.e. to say in a loud voice) (usually followed by the words shouted)
喝酒	to drink (alcohol)
喝醉	to get drunk
喝采	to acclaim; to cheer
喝高	to get drunk
喟	to sigh
喣	to breathe upon
喤	sobbing; sound of bell
喥	used in location words (Cantonese); Mandarin equivalent: 裡|里[li3]
喦	talkative
喧	clamor; noise
喧嘩	hubbub; clamor; to make a racket
喧嘩與騷動	The Sound and the Fury (novel by William Faulkner 威廉·福克納|威廉·福克纳[Wei1 lian2 · Fu2 ke4 na4])
喧囂	to clamor; to make noise
喧擾	to disturb by noise
喧賓奪主	lit. the voice of the guest overwhelms that of the host (idiom)
喧騰	to make a tumult; hubbub; uproar
喧鬧	to make a noise; noisy
喨	used in 嘹喨[liao2 liang4]
喪	to lose sth abstract but important (courage, authority, one's life etc)
喪亂	tragic disaster; disturbance and bloodshed
喪事	funeral arrangements
喪亡	to die
喪假	funeral leave
喪偶	(literary) to be bereaved of one's spouse
喪儀	funeral ceremony
喪命	to lose one's life
喪天害理	devoid of conscience (idiom)
喪失	to lose; to forfeit
喪失殆盡	to be used up; to be exhausted
喪妻	to be bereaved of one's wife
喪家之犬	(lit.) stray dog (idiom); (fig.) one who has nothing to rely on
喪屍	zombie
喪德	wicked; offending morality
喪心病狂	(idiom) deranged; demented; berserk
喪志	to become demoralized; to lose one's sense of purpose
喪服	mourning garment
喪梆	cold and offensive (talk or manner)
喪棒	funeral stick (held by the son as a sign of filial piety)
喪權辱國	to forfeit sovereignty and humiliate the country (idiom)
喪氣	to feel disheartened
喪氣話	demoralizing talk
喪氣鬼	downcast wretch; bad-tempered and unpleasant person
喪父	to be orphaned of one's father
喪生	to die; to lose one's life
喪盡	to completely lose (one's dignity, vitality etc)
喪盡天良	devoid of conscience (idiom); utterly heartless
喪禮	funeral
喪膽	panic-stricken; scared out of one's wits
喪荒	funerals and famines
喪葬	funeral and interment
喪葬費	funeral expenses
喪親	bereavement; to lose a relative
喪身	to lose one's life
喪鐘	knell
喪門星	messenger of death; person bringing bad luck
喪門神	messenger of death; person bringing bad luck
喪魂失魄	(idiom) out of one's senses; shaken to the core; dazed
喪魂落魄	scared out of one's wits (idiom); in a panic
喬	surname Qiao
喬丹	(name) Jordan
喬冠華	Qiao Guanhua (1913-1973), PRC politician and diplomat
喬叟	Geoffrey Chaucer (1343-1400), English poet, author of The Canterbury Tales 坎特伯雷故事集[Kan3 te4 bo2 lei2 Gu4 shi4 Ji2]
喬巴山	Choibalsan, city in Mongolia, capital of the eastern aimag (province) of Dornod
喬希	Josh or Joshi (name)
喬戈里峰	K2, aka Mt. Chogir, the world's second highest peak, located in the Karakoram Range 喀喇崑崙山脈|喀喇昆仑山脉[Ka1 la3 kun1 lun2 Shan1 mai4]
喬木	tree, esp. with recognizable trunk (as opposed to 灌木[guan4 mu4], bush or shrub)
喬林	forest (esp. of tall trees); high forest
喬治	George (name)
喬治·奧威爾	George Orwell (1903-1950), British novelist, author of Animal Farm 動物農場|动物农场 and 1984
喬治·布爾	George Boole (1815-1864), English mathematician, philosopher and logician, author of The Laws of Thought and inventor of Boolean algebra
喬治·索羅斯	George Soros or György Schwartz (1930-), Hungarian American financial speculator and millionaire philanthropist
喬治·華盛頓	George Washington (1732-1799), first US president
喬治一世	George I of Great Brittain
喬治亞	(Tw) Georgia, US state; (Tw) Georgia (country)
喬治城	Georgetown; (the spelling 喬治敦|乔治敦 is more common)
喬治城大學	Georgetown University in Washington D.C., famous as quality Jesuit university and for its basketball team
喬治敦	Georgetown
喬石	Qiao Shi (1924-2015), Chinese politician
喬答摩	Gautama, surname of the Siddhartha, the historical Buddha
喬紅	Qiao Hong (1968–), retired Chinese female table tennis player
喬納森	Jonathan (name)
喬裝	to pretend; to feign; to disguise oneself
喬裝打扮	to dress up in disguise (idiom); to pretend for the purpose of deceit
喬遷	to move (to a superior place); promotion
喬遷之喜	congratulations on house-moving or promotion (idiom); Best wishes for your new home!
喭	condole with
單	used in 單于|单于[chan2 yu2]
單一	single; only; sole
單一登入	(Tw) single sign-on (SSO)
單一碼	Unicode; also written 統一碼|统一码
單一貨幣	single currency
單于	king of the Xiongnu 匈奴[Xiong1 nu2]
單人	one person; single (room, bed etc)
單人匹馬	single-handedly (idiom)
單人床	single bed
單人沙發	(upholstered) armchair
單人間	single room (hotel)
單位	unit (of measure); unit (group of people as a whole)
單位信托	unit trust (finance)
單位元	identity element (math.)
單位切向量	(math.) unit tangent vector
單位向量	(math.) unit vector
單位根	(math.) root of unity
單位犯罪	crime committed by an organization
單個	single; alone; individually
單倍體	haploid (single chromosome)
單側	one-sided; unilateral
單傳	to have only one heir in a generation (of a family, clan etc)
單價	unit price
單元	unit (forming an entity); element
單元房	apartment
單元格	(spreadsheet) cell
單克隆抗體	(immunology) monoclonal antibody
單兵	individual soldier
單刀直入	(idiom) to get straight to the point
單刀赴會	lit. to go among enemies with only one's sword (idiom)
單反相機	single-lens reflex camera (SLR)
單叢	Dancong, type of oolong tea
單口相聲	comic monologue; one-person comic sketch
單句	simple sentence (grammar)
單另	separately and exclusively; specially
單向	unidirectional
單向電流	(elec.) unidirectional current; DC; also written 直流[zhi2 liu2]
單味藥	medicine made from a single herb; drug made from a single substance
單品	(commerce) individual product; distinct product item; SKU
單單	only; merely; just
單團	ad hoc group (tour group with a customized itinerary)
單套	single set
單姓	single-character surname
單子	the only son of a family; (functional programming or philosophy) monad
單子葉	monocotyledon (plant family distinguished by single embryonic leaf, includes grasses, orchids and lilies)
單字	single Chinese character; (Tw) word (of a foreign language)
單寧	(loanword) tannin
單寧酸	tannic acid (loanword)
單射	(math.) one-to-one function; injective map
單層	single layer; single story; single deck
單層塔	single-storied pagoda
單峰駝	dromedary
單工	(telecommunications) simplex
單幹	to work on one's own; to work single-handed; individual farming
單引號	single quotes
單張	flyer; leaflet; single-sheet (map etc)
單張匯票	sola bill of exchange (international trade)
單意	unambiguous; having only one meaning
單戀	to be in unrequited love with (sb); one-sided love; unrequited love
單房差	single supplement (for a hotel room)
單手	one hand; single-handed
單打	singles (in sports)
單打獨鬥	to fight alone (idiom)
單抗	(immunology) monoclonal antibody (abbr. for 單克隆抗體|单克隆抗体[dan1 ke4 long2 kang4 ti3])
單挑	to pick; to choose; to fight a duel
單擊	(computing) to single-click; to click
單據	receipts; invoices; transaction records
單擺	simple pendulum (physics)
單放機	tape player; video player; (media) player
單數	positive odd number (also written 奇數|奇数); singular (grammar)
單方	unilateral; one-sided; home remedy
單方向	unidirectional; single-aspect
單方宣告	unilateral declaration
單方製劑	prescribed preparation
單方過失碰撞	collision in which only one party is at fault
單方面	unilateral
單日	on a single day
單晶	monocrystalline
單曲	single (recording industry)
單月	monthly; in a single month
單板機	single-board computer
單板滑雪	to snowboard
單核細胞	monocyte; mononuclear cell
單核細胞增多症	mononucleosis
單根獨苗	an only child
單極	unipolar; monopole (physics)
單槍匹馬	(idiom) single-handed; on one's own
單槓	bar; bold line; horizontal bar (gymnastics event)
單模	single mode
單模光纖	single-mode optical fiber
單源論	theory of single origin (of mankind)
單片機	microcontroller; one-chip computer
單獨	alone; by oneself; on one's own
單班課	individual lesson; one-on-one class
單瓣	single petal; single valve
單產	yield per unit area
單用	to use (sth) on its own
單盲	single-blind (scientific experiment)
單相	single phase (elec.)
單相思	one-sided lovesickness; unrequited longing
單眼	ommatidium (single component of insect's compound eye)
單眼皮	single eyelid
單眼相機	(Tw) single-lens reflex camera
單程	one-way (ticket)
單程票	one-way ticket
單穩	monostable; single-side stable (relays)
單端	(electronics) single-ended
單簧管	clarinet
單糖	monosaccharide
單純	simple; pure; unsophisticated
單純皰疹	herpes simplex (med.)
單純皰疹病毒	herpes simplex virus (HSV, med.)
單純詞	(linguistics) single-morpheme word; simple word
單細胞	(of an organism) single-celled; unicellular
單細胞生物	unicellular organism
單絲不成線，獨木不成林	(proverb) one strand does not make a thread, one tree does not make a forest
單縣	Shan County or Shanxian, a county in Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
單翼飛機	monoplane
單肩包	shoulder bag
單胞藻	single-celled algae
單腳滑行車	scooter
單腳跳	to hop; to jump on one leg
單色	monochrome; monochromatic; black and white
單色照片	monochrome photo; black and white picture
單色畫	monochrome picture; black and white picture
單葉雙曲面	(math.) one-sheeted hyperboloid
單薄	weak; frail; thin
單號	odd number (on a ticket, house etc)
單行	to come individually; to treat separately; separate edition
單行本	single volume edition; offprint
單行線	one-way road
單行道	one-way street
單衣	unlined garment
單褲	unlined trousers; summer trousers
單親	single parent
單親媽媽	single mother
單親家庭	single parent family
單親爸爸	single father
單詞	word
單語	monolingual
單調	monotonous
單調乏味	monotonous; dull; tedious (idiom)
單證	(international trade) documentation (e.g. a bill of lading)
單質	simple substance (consisting purely of one element, such as diamond)
單趟	single trip
單身	unmarried; single; alone
單身汪	(Internet slang) person who is neither married nor in a relationship (used self-deprecatingly)
單身漢	bachelor; single man
單身狗	(Internet slang) person who is neither married nor in a relationship (used self-deprecatingly)
單身貴族	fig. unmarried person
單車	(coll.) bicycle; bike (esp. in Hong Kong, Taiwan and southern China and, more generally, used across China to refer to a bike-share bicycle)
單車族	(Tw) people who ride bicycles regularly; cyclists
單軌	monorail
單輪車	unicycle
單速車	single-speed bicycle; fixed-gear bicycle
單連接站	single attachment station (telecommunications)
單過	to live independently; to live on one's own
單邊	unilateral
單邊主義	unilateralism
單鉻	monochrome
單鍵	single bond (chemistry)
單鏈	single chain; refers to RNA as opposed to the double helix DNA
單間差	single supplement (for a hotel room)
單院制	unicameralism; single-house system
單非	a couple in which one of the spouses is not a Hong Kong citizen
單鞋	unpadded shoes
單音節	monosyllabic; a monosyllable
單音詞	monosyllabic word
單韻母	simple finals
單項	single-item
單項式	(math.) monomial
單飛	to fly solo; (fig.) to go solo; to leave a group and go it alone
單體	monomer (chemistry)
單點	to order à la carte; single point (of measurement, mounting etc)
單點故障	single point of failure
單點登錄	single sign-on (SSO)
喱	grain (unit of weight, approx. 0.065 grams); Taiwan pr. [li3]
喲	Oh! (interjection indicating slight surprise); also pr. [yao1]
喳	used in 喳喳[cha1 cha1] and 喳喳[cha1 cha5]
喳喳	(onom.) whisper
喵	(onom.) meow; cat's mewing
喵星人	cat (Internet slang)
喵的	drat; frick; (euphemistic variant of 媽的|妈的[ma1 de5])
喹	used in 喹啉[kui2 lin2]
喹啉	quinoline C6H4(CH)3N (pharm.) (loanword)
喹諾酮	quinolone (a hydroxylated quinoline, inhibiting the replication of bacterial DNA)
喺	to be at, in or on (Cantonese); Mandarin equivalent: 在[zai4]
喻	to describe sth as; an analogy; a simile
喻世明言	another name for 古今小說|古今小说[Gu3 jin1 Xiao3 shuo1], Stories Old and New by Feng Menglong 馮夢龍|冯梦龙[Feng2 Meng4 long2]
喼	box (dialect); used to transliterate words with sounds kip-, cap- etc
喼汁	Worcestershire sauce
喿	chirping of birds
嗀	to vomit
嗃	scold with severity
嗄	hoarse
嗅	to smell; to sniff; to nose
嗅探	to sniff (in order to find sth)
嗅探犬	sniffer dog
嗅球	olfactory bulb (anatomy)
嗅覺	sense of smell
嗅鹽	smelling salts
嗆	to irritate the nose; to choke (of smoke, smell etc); pungent
嗆到	to choke on (food etc); to swallow the wrong way
嗆咕	to discuss (dialect)
嗇	stingy
嗈	to choke
嗉	the crop of a bird
嗉囊	crop (anatomy of birds, gastropods etc)
嗉子	the crop of a bird; (dialect) wine flask made of tin or porcelain
嗊	used in the title of an ancient song, 囉嗊曲|啰唝曲[Luo2 hong3 Qu3]
嗊吥	old name for Kampot province and Kampot town in Cambodia, now written 貢布|贡布[Gong4 bu4]
嗌	(literary) the throat; (literary) (military) choke point
嗍	to suck; Taiwan pr. [shuo4]
嗎	(question particle for "yes-no" questions)
嗎哪	manna (Israelite food)
嗎啉	morpholine (chemistry) (loanword)
嗎啡	morphine (loanword)
嗎嘍	(slang) monkey (often used humorously or self-deprecatingly by overworked laborers)
嗐	exclamation of regret
嗑	to crack (seeds) between one's teeth
嗑藥	to take (illegal) drugs
嗒	(onom.) used in words that describe machine gunfire, the ticking of a clock or the clatter of horse hooves etc
嗒喪	(literary) disheartened; disappointed
嗒然	(literary) despondent; depressed
嗓	throat; voice
嗓子	throat; voice
嗓子眼	throat
嗓眼	throat
嗓門	voice; windpipe
嗓門眼	throat
嗓音	voice
嗔	to be angry at; to be displeased and annoyed
嗔喝	to yell at sb in rage
嗔怒	to get angry
嗔怨	to complain; to reproach
嗔怪	to blame; to rebuke
嗔斥	to rebuke; to scold
嗔狂	to be deranged
嗔目	glare; angry look; to open one's eyes wide
嗔睨	to look askance at sb in anger
嗔色	angry or sullen look
嗔著	(coll.) to blame sb for sth
嗔視	to look angrily at
嗔詬	to berate; to curse in rage
嗕	ancient tribe of northern China
嗖	(onom.) whooshing; swishing; rustle of skirts
嗖嗖	(onom.) whooshing; swishing; rustle of skirts
嗙	(dialect) to boast; to brag; (onom.) sound of hitting sth
嗚	(onom.) for humming or whimpering
嗚呼	alas; alack; welladay
嗚呼哀哉	alas; all is lost
嗚咽	to sob; to whimper
嗚嗚	(interj) boo hoo
嗚嗚祖拉	vuvuzela (horn) (loanword)
嗛	pouch; hold; content
嗜	(bound form) to have a strong liking for; to be addicted to
嗜好	hobby; indulgence; habit; addiction
嗜慾	lust
嗜殺	to delight in killing; bloodthirsty
嗜殺成性	bloodthirsty
嗜睡症	hypersomnia; excessive sleepiness (medical)
嗜血	bloodthirsty; bloodsucking; hemophile
嗜血桿菌	hemophile bacteria; hemophilus
嗜酒如命	to love wine as one's life (idiom); fond of the bottle
嗜酸乳桿菌	Lactobacillus acidophilus
嗜酸性球	eosinophil granulocyte (type of white blood cell)
嗜酸性粒細胞	eosinophil (type of white blood cell)
嗜鹼性球	basophil granulocyte (type of white blood cell)
嗜鹼性粒細胞	basophil granulocytes (rarest type of white blood cell)
嗝	hiccup; belch
嗝兒屁	erhua form of 嗝屁[ge2 pi4]
嗝屁	(dialect) (loanword) to die; to give up the ghost
嗞	(onom.) sizzle, hiss, slurp etc
嗞啦	(onom.) sputter; sizzle
嗟	sigh; also pr. [jue1]
嗡	(onom.) buzz; hum; drone
嗡嗡	(onom.) buzz; drone; hum
嗡嗡叫	hum; drone; buzz (of insects)
嗡嗡彈	buzzing bomb
嗡嗡祖拉	vuvuzela (horn blown by sports fans)
嗡嗡聲	hum; drone; buzz
嗣	succession (to a title); to inherit; continuing (a tradition)
嗣位	to succeed to a title; to inherit
嗣國	to accede to a throne
嗣子	heir; adopted son
嗣後	from then on; after; afterwards
嗣徽	heritage; the continuation (of a tradition)
嗣歲	the following year; next year
嗣響	lit. a following echo; fig. to continue (a tradition)
嗤	laugh at; jeer; scoff at
嗤之以鼻	to snort disdainfully; to scoff at; to turn up one's nose
嗤笑	to sneer at
嗥	to howl (like a wolf)
嗥叫	to growl; to howl
嗦	to suck; used in 囉嗦|啰嗦[luo1 suo5]; used in 哆嗦[duo1 suo5]
嗦粉	to slurp noodles
嗨	oh alas; hey!; hi! (loanword)
嗨皮	(Internet slang) (loanword) happy
嗨藥	(slang) to take drugs; recreational drug
嗩	used in 嗩吶|唢呐[suo3 na4]
嗩吶	suona, Chinese shawm (oboe), used in festivals and processions or for military purposes
嗪	used in phonetic transcription -xine, -zine or -chin
嗬	(interjection expressing surprise) oh!; wow!
嗯	interjection indicating approval, appreciation or agreement
嗯哼	uh-huh
嗰	that (Cantonese); Mandarin equivalent: 那[na4]
嗲	coy; childish
嗵	(onom.) thump; thud
嗵嗵鼓	tom-tom (drum)
嗶	(phonetic)
嗶哩嗶哩	Bilibili, Chinese video-sharing website featuring scrolled user comments 彈幕|弹幕[dan4 mu4] overlaid on the videos
嗶嗶啪啪	(onom.) flopping sound
嗶嘰	serge (loanword)
嗷	loud clamor; the sound of wailing
嗷嗷待哺	cry piteously for food
嗹	chattering
嗻	(old) aye aye!
嗽	(bound form) to cough
嗾	to urge on; incite
嗿	sound of many people eating
嘀	(onom.) sound of dripping water, a ticking clock etc
嘀咕	to mutter; to feel apprehensive
嘀嗒	(onom.) tick tock
嘁	whispering sound
嘁嘁喳喳	chattering
嘂	ancient musical instrument similar to ocarina
嘅	possessive particle (Cantonese); Mandarin equivalent: 的[de5]
嘆	to sigh; to exclaim
嘆口氣	to sigh
嘆息	to sigh; to gasp (in admiration)
嘆惜	sigh of regret
嘆服	(to gasp) with admiration
嘆氣	to sigh; to heave a sigh
嘆為觀止	(idiom) to gasp in amazement; to acclaim as the peak of perfection
嘆號	exclamation point; exclamation mark (!)
嘆詞	interjection; exclamation
嘆賞	to admire; to express admiration
嘈	bustling; tumultuous; noisy
嘈雜	noisy; clamorous
嘈雜聲	noise; din
嘉	excellent; auspicious; to praise
嘉仁	Yoshihito, personal name of the Taishō 大正[Da4 zheng4] emperor of Japan (1879-1926), reigned 1912-1926
嘉善縣	Jiashan, a county in Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
嘉士伯	Carlsberg
嘉定	Jiading district of northwest Shanghai
嘉定區	Jiading district of northwest Shanghai
嘉寶果	jaboticaba; Brazilian grape tree
嘉峪關	Jiayu Pass in Gansu, at the western terminus of the Great Wall
嘉峪關城	Jiayuguan fort in the Gansu corridor
嘉峪關市	Jiayuguan, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
嘉年華	(loanword) carnival
嘉慶	Jiaqing Emperor (1760-1820), seventh Qing emperor, personal name 顒琰|颙琰[Yong2 yan3], reigned 1796-1820
嘉會	auspicious occasion; grand feast
嘉柏隆里	(Tw) Gaborone, capital of Botswana
嘉爾曼	Carmen (name)
嘉獎	to award; commendation; citation
嘉祥縣	Jiaxiang, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
嘉禾縣	Jiahe, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
嘉義	Chiayi, a city and county in west Taiwan
嘉義市	Chiayi city in central Taiwan
嘉義縣	Jiayi or Chiayi County in west Taiwan
嘉興市	Jiaxing, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
嘉蔭縣	Jiayin, a county in Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
嘉許	favorable; praise
嘉豪	(slang) try-hard poser; cringe attention-seeker who acts overly cool or self-confident
嘉賓	esteemed guest; honored guest; guest (on a show)
嘉陵區	Jialing, a district of Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
嘉陵江	Jialing River in Sichuan (a tributary of the Yangtze)
嘉魚縣	Jiayu, a county in Xianning City 咸寧市|咸宁市[Xian2 ning2 Shi4], Hubei
嘉黎縣	Lhari, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
嘊	to growl (of dog); to bare fangs
嘌	(literary) fast; speedy; used in 嘌呤[piao4 ling4]
嘌呤	purine (loanword)
嘍	(bound form) subordinates in a gang of bandits
嘍囉	rank and file member of an outlaw gang
嘎	(dialect) ill-tempered; ornery; (dialect) naughty; mischievous
嘎了	(slang) (I'm, you're) toast; so screwed; it's game over (for sb); (sth) bit the dust
嘎吱	(onom.) creak; crunch
嘎啦	to quarrel (Northeastern Mandarin)
嘎嘎	(onom.) quack; honk; (northern dialect) very
嘎嘎小姐	Lady Gaga (1986-), US pop singer
嘎拉哈	(Manchu loanword) knucklebones
嘎然	(onom.) screech of a sudden stop; suddenly stop (of sounds)
嘏	good fortune; longevity
嘐	boastful; bombastic
嘑	to shout; to call out
嘒	shrill sound; twinkling
嘓	sound of swallowing; croak
嘔	vomit
嘔出物	vomitus
嘔吐	to vomit
嘔吐物	vomit
嘔心瀝血	lit. to spit out one's heart and spill blood (idiom)
嘖	(interj. of admiration or of disgust); to click one's tongue
嘖嘖	to click one's tongue
嘖嘖稱奇	to click one's tongue in wonder (idiom); to be astonished
嘗	to taste; to try (food); to experience; (literary) ever; once
嘗盡心酸	to experience one's full share of sorrows (idiom)
嘗糞	to taste a patient's excrement (a form of medical examination, seen as an act of loyalty or filial piety)
嘗試	to try (to see what it's like or whether one can do it)
嘗試錯誤	to proceed by trial and error; to learn by making mistakes
嘗鮮	to taste (fresh food or a delicacy); (fig.) to try sth new
嘚	(onom.) for the sound of horsehoofs
嘚啵	(coll.) to run off at the mouth; to jabber on
嘛	used in 唵嘛呢叭咪吽[an3 ma2 ni2 ba1 mi1 hong1]; (Tw) (coll.) what?
嘜	mark (loanword); also pr. [ma4]
嘜頭	trademark; shipping mark
嘞	sentence-final particle similar to 了[le5], but carrying a tone of approval
嘟	(onom.) toot; honk; beep (sound of a horn etc); (coll.) to pout
嘟嘟噥噥	to mumble in whispers; to mutter to oneself
嘟嘟車	(loanword) tuk-tuk (three-wheeler taxi)
嘟嘴	(coll.) to pout (esp. in sulky displeasure)
嘟噥	to mutter; to mumble complaints; to grumble
嘟嚕	bunch; cluster; classifier for bunched objects
嘟囔	to mumble to oneself
嘡	(onom.) clang; bong; bang
嘢	(Cantonese) thing; matter; stuff
嘣	(onom.) thump; boom; bang
嘥	to waste (Cantonese)
嘦	(dialect) contracted form of 只要[zhi3 yao4]
嘧	(phonetic) as in pyrimidine
嘧啶	pyrimidine C4H4N2
嘩	(onom.) bang; clang; sound of gurgling, splashing or flowing water
嘩兒嘩兒	(dialect) sound used to call cats
嘩啦	(onom.) sound of a crash; with a crash
嘩啦一聲	with a crash; with a thunderous noise
嘩啦啦	(onom.) crashing sound
嘩嘩	sound of gurgling water
嘩然	in uproar; commotion; causing a storm of protest
嘩眾取寵	sensationalism; vulgar claptrap to please the crowds
嘩笑	uproarious laughter
嘩變	mutiny; rebellion
嘬	(literary) to gnaw; to eat ravenously
嘭	(onom.) bang
嘮	to gossip; to chat (dialect)
嘮叨	to prattle; to chatter away; to nag
嘮嗑	(dialect) to chat; to gossip
嘮嘮叨叨	to chatter; to babble
嘯	(of people) to whistle
嘯叫	to squeal; to screech
嘰	grumble
嘰咋柳鶯	(bird species of China) common chiffchaff (Phylloscopus collybita)
嘰哩咕嚕	(onom.) to jabber; to rumble
嘰嘰咕咕	(onom.) to mutter; to mumble; to whisper
嘰嘰喳喳	(onom.) chirp; twitter; buzzing
嘰嘰嘎嘎	(onom.) giggling noise
嘰嘰歪歪	(coll.) to go on and on (annoyingly); to mouth off; to make a fuss
嘲	used in 嘲哳[zhao1 zha1]
嘲哳	(onom.) clamorous noise made by numerous people talking or singing, or by musical instruments, or birds twittering
嘲弄	to tease; to poke fun at; to make fun of
嘲笑	to jeer at; to deride; to ridicule
嘲諷	to sneer at; to ridicule; to taunt
嘲謔	to mock and ridicule
嘴	mouth; beak; nozzle
嘴上沒毛，辦事不牢	a youth without facial hair cannot be relied upon (proverb)
嘴不嚴	to have a loose tongue
嘴乖	(coll.) to speak in a clever and lovable way
嘴唇	lip
嘴啃泥	to fall flat on one's face
嘴嚴	prudent in speech
嘴型	mouth shape when speaking or singing
嘴套	muzzle (for a dog etc)
嘴子	mouth; beak; spout
嘴尖	sharp-tongued; to have a keen sense of taste
嘴巴	mouth (CL:張|张[zhang1]); slap in the face
嘴巴子	slap
嘴快	to have loose lips
嘴快心直	outspoken and frank (idiom)
嘴損	(dialect) sharp-tongued; harsh
嘴敞	to have a loose tongue; talkative
嘴替	(slang) sb who effectively articulates others' thoughts or feelings on their behalf
嘴欠	(coll.) unable to control one's tongue; prone to say sth nasty
嘴炮	(Internet slang) to mouth off; to shoot one's mouth off
嘴牢	tight-lipped
嘴琴	Jew's harp
嘴瓢	(coll.) to get one's words mixed up; to misspeak
嘴甜	sweet-talking; ingratiating
嘴甜心苦	sweet mouth, bitter heart (idiom); insincere flattery
嘴皮子	lit. lips; fig. glib talk
嘴直	straight shooter
嘴硬	reluctant to admit a mistake
嘴碎	loquacious; garrulous; wordy
嘴秋	(Tw) (coll.) mouthy; cocky and verbally provocative
嘴穩	able to keep a secret
嘴笨	inarticulate
嘴臉	features, face (esp. derogatorily); look; appearance
嘴裡	mouth; in the mouth; on one's lips
嘴角	corner of the mouth
嘴賤	prone to saying sth inappropriate or offensive
嘴軟	soft-spoken; afraid to speak out
嘴饞	gluttonous; ravenous
嘴鬆	loose-tongued
嘵	a cry of alarm; querulous
嘶	hiss; neigh
嘶叫	to whinny (of a horse); to neigh; to shout
嘶吼	to yell; to shout
嘶啞	(onom.) coarse crowing; hoarse; husky
嘶啞聲	hoarse
嘶喊	to shout
嘶嘶聲	hissing or sizzling sound
嘶鳴	to whinny (of a horse); to neigh
嘸	dialectal equivalent of 沒有|没有[mei2 you3]
嘸啥	dialectal equivalent of 沒什麼|没什么[mei2 shen2 me5]
嘸沒	dialectal equivalent of 沒有|没有[mei2 you3]
嘸蝦米	Boshiamy, input method editor for Chinese (from Taiwanese 無啥物, Tai-lo pr. [bô-siánn-mih] "it's nothing")
嘹	used in 嘹亮[liao2 liang4] and 嘹喨[liao2 liang4]
嘹亮	loud and clear; resonant
嘻	laugh; giggle; (interjection expressing admiration, surprise etc)
嘻哈	hip-hop (music genre) (loanword)
嘻嘻	hee hee; happy
嘻皮	hippie (loanword)
嘽	used in 嘽嘽|啴啴[chan3 chan3] and 嘽緩|啴缓[chan3 huan3]
嘽嘽	(literary) panting (of draft animals)
嘽緩	relaxed; unhurried
嘿	hey
嘿咻	(coll.) to make love
嘿嘿	(onom.) he he; mischievous laughter
噀	spurt out of the mouth
噁嗪	oxazine C4H5NO
噂	talk together
噅	to speak falsely or wrongly; ugly
噇	(dialect) to eat or drink extravagantly
噌	sound of bells etc
噍	to chew
噍類	a living being (esp. human)
噎	to choke (on); to choke up; to suffocate
噎住	to choke (on); to choke off (in speech)
噎死	(intransitive) to choke to death
噏	to gossip; to babble (Cantonese)
噓	to exhale slowly; to hiss; hush!
噓噓	to pee pee (kiddie or feminine slang)
噓寒問暖	to enquire solicitously about sb's well-being (idiom); to pamper
噓聲	hissing sound; to hiss (as a sign of displeasure)
噔	(onom.) thud; thump
噔噔	(onom.) thump; thud
噗	(onom.) pop; plop; pfff
噗浪	Plurk (Taiwanese social networking and microblogging service)
噘	to pout; (dialect) to scold
噘嘴	to pout (to express anger or displeasure)
噙	to hold in (usually refers the mouth or eyes)
噚	fathom (1.83 meters) (old)
噝	(onom.) to hiss; to whistle; to whiz
噝噝聲	hissing sound (onom.)
噞	the movement of a fish's mouth at the surface of the water
噠	(phonetic); command to a horse; clatter (of horses' hoofs)
噠嗪	pyrazine C4H4N2; diazine
噢	oh; ah (used to indicate realization); also pr. [ou4]
噢買嘎	(loanword) oh my God!
噤	unable to speak; silent
噤聲	to keep silent
噤聲令	gag order
噤若寒蟬	to keep quiet out of fear (idiom)
噥	(bound form) to mutter; to mumble
噦	to puke; to hiccup; Taiwan pr. [yue1]
噦噦	rhythmical sound of a bell or a birdcall
器	device; tool; utensil
器件	device; component
器具	implement; utensil; equipment
器宇	(literary) variant of 氣宇|气宇[qi4 yu3]
器官	(physiology) organ; apparatus
器官捐獻者	organ donor
器官移植	organ transplant
器材	equipment; material
器械	apparatus; instrument; equipment
器樂	instrumental music
器物	implement; utensil; article
器皿	household utensils
器質性	(of medical disorders) organic
器重	to regard sth as valuable; to think highly of (a younger person, a subordinate etc)
器量	tolerance
噩	startling
噩夢	nightmare
噩耗	news of sb's death; sad news
噪	(literary) (of birds or insects) to chirp
噪大葦鶯	(bird species of China) clamorous reed warbler (Acrocephalus stentoreus)
噪聲	noise
噪聲污染	noise pollution
噪雜	a clamor; a din
噪音	rumble; noise; static (in a signal)
噪音盒	boombox; ghetto blaster
噪鵑	(bird species of China) Asian koel (Eudynamys scolopaceus)
噪點	image noise
噫	yeah (interjection of approval); to belch
噬	to devour; to bite
噬咬	to bite
噬臍莫及	(lit.) one cannot bite one's own navel (idiom)
噬菌體	bacteriophage; phage
噭	shout
噯	to belch; (interj. of disapproval)
噯氣	to belch
噯氣吞酸	(TCM) belching and acid reflux
噯氣嘔逆	belching and retching counterflow (medical term)
噯氣腐臭	putrid belching (medical term)
噯氣酸腐	belching of sour putrid gas (medical term)
噯腐	putrid belching (medical term)
噯腐吞酸	putrid belching with regurgitation of stomach acid (medical term)
噯酸	sour belching (medical term)
噱	loud laughter
噱頭	amusing speech or act; jokes; antics
噲	throat; to swallow
噳	herd; stag; buck
噴	(of a smell) strong; peak season (of a crop)
噴他佐辛	(loanword) pentazocine (a synthetic opioid analgesic)
噴出	spout; spray; belch
噴出岩	extrusive rock (geology)
噴嘴	nozzle; extrusion nozzle
噴嚏	sneeze
噴嚏劑	sternutator
噴墨	ink jet
噴壺	spray bottle
噴子	sprayer; spraying apparatus; (slang) firearm; Internet troll; hater
噴射	to spurt; to spray; to jet; spurt; spray; jet
噴射機	jet plane; spraying machine
噴桶	watering can
噴槍	spray gun
噴氣	to spurt steam (or air etc)
噴氣式	jet-propelled
噴氣式飛機	jet aircraft
噴氣推進實驗室	Jet Propulsion Laboratory, R&D center in Pasadena, California
噴氣機	jet plane
噴氣發動機	jet engine
噴水壺	watering can; sprinkling can
噴水池	a fountain
噴池	spray pool; spray condensing pool
噴泉	fountain
噴湧	to bubble out; to squirt
噴漆	to spray paint or lacquer; lacquer
噴濺	to splash; to splatter
噴灌	sprinkler irrigation
噴灑	to spray; to sprinkle
噴灑器	sprinkler; sprayer
噴火	to shoot flames; to erupt (of volcanoes); flaming (of flowers)
噴火器	flamethrower
噴燈	blowtorch; blowlamp
噴瓜	squirting cucumber (Ecballium elaterium)
噴發	to erupt; an eruption
噴砂	sandblasting; abrasive blasting
噴糞	to talk crap; to be full of shit
噴絲頭	spinneret; extrusion nozzle
噴薄	to gush; to squirt; to surge
噴薄欲出	to be on the verge of eruption (idiom)
噴霧	mist spray; atomizing
噴霧器	sprayer; atomizer
噴頭	nozzle; spray-head
噴飯	(coll.) to burst out laughing
噴香	fragrant; delicious
噴鼻息	to snort
噶	phonetic ga (used in rendering Tibetan and Mongolian sounds)
噶倫	Tibetan government official
噶哈巫族	Kaxabu or Kahabu, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
噶啷啷	(onom.) hum and clatter
噶喇	(onom.); same as 噶拉[ga2 la1]
噶嗒	(onom.) clattering
噶嘣	(onom.) kaboom
噶噶	(onom.)
噶布倫	Tibetan government official
噶廈	government of Tibet, dissolved in 1959
噶拉	(onom.); same as 噶喇[ga2 la3]
噶拉·多傑·仁波切	Garab Dorje Rinpoche, succession of Buthanese religious leaders
噶爾縣	Gar, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
噶瑪蘭	Kavalan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
噶瑪蘭族	Kavalan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
噶當派	Bkar-dgam-pa sect of Tibetan Buddhism
噶舉派	Geju (Tibetan: transmit word of Buddha) sect of Tibetan Buddhist
噶隆	Tibetan government official; same as 噶布倫|噶布伦
噶霏	coffee (loanword) (old)
噷	interjection expressing disagreement, reproach or dissatisfaction
噸	ton (loanword); Taiwan pr. [dun4]
噸位	tonnage
噸公里	ton-kilometer (unit of capacity of transport system)
噸數	tonnage
噸級	tonnage; class in tons (of a passenger ship)
噹	(onom.) dong; ding dong (bell)
噹啷	(onom.) metallic sound; clanging
噹噹	(onom.) ding dong
噹噹車	(coll.) tram, especially Beijing trams during period of operation 1924-1956
噻	used in transliteration
噻吩	thiophene (chemistry) (loanword)
噻唑	thiazole (chemistry)
噻嗪	thiazine (chemistry) (loanword)
噼	child's buttocks (esp. Cantonese)
噼里啪啦	(onom.) crackling of firecrackers; pitter-patter of rain; burst of applause
嚀	to enjoin
嚃	(literary) to drink; to swallow
嚄	(interj. of surprise)
嚅	chattering
嚆	sound; noise
嚇	to scare; to intimidate; to threaten
嚇一跳	startled; to frighten; scared out of one's skin
嚇人	to scare; scary; frightening
嚇倒	to be frightened
嚇傻	to terrify; to scare sb
嚇唬	to scare; to frighten
嚇嚇叫	(Tw) impressive (from Taiwanese 削削叫, Tai-lo pr. [siah-siah-kiò])
嚇壞	to be terrified; to terrify sb
嚇得發抖	to tremble with fear
嚇昏	to faint from fear; to be frightened into fits; shell-shocked
嚇瘋	to be scared senseless
嚇破膽	to be scared out of one's wits; to scare stiff
嚇跑	to scare away
嚌	sip
嚎	howl; bawl
嚎叫	to howl; to yell
嚎哭	to bawl; to cry; to wail
嚎啕	to cry loudly; to wail
嚎啕大哭	(idiom) to wail; to bawl
嚏	sneeze
嚏噴	sneeze
嚐	to taste; to experience (variant of 嘗|尝[chang2])
嚓	used in 咔嚓[ka1 cha1], 喀嚓[ka1 cha1] and 啪嚓[pa1 cha1]; Taiwan pr. [ca1]
嚓嚓	(onom.) scraping sound; ripping of fabric; screeching of tires
嚕	grumble; chatter
嚗	(onom.) sound of sth splitting or breaking apart
嚙	to gnaw; to erode
嚙合	(of opposing teeth, or gears) to mesh; to engage
嚙齒動物	rodent
嚙齒目	order of rodents (rats, squirrels etc)
嚚	insincere; stupid
嚜	(final particle)
嚝	to sigh; sound of a drum
嚟	used in transliteration
嚥	to swallow
嚥下	to swallow
嚥下困難	dysphagia (medicine)
嚥住	to suppress (a sob, harsh words etc)
嚥氣	to die; to breathe one's last
嚦	sound of splitting; cracking
嚨	used in 喉嚨|喉咙[hou2 long2]
嚭	great; great fortune
嚮	to tend toward; to guide
嚮導	guide
嚮往	to yearn for; to look forward to
嚯	(onom.) expressing admiration or surprise; (onom.) sound of a laugh
嚱	(sigh); (whistle)
嚲	hang down
嚳	one of the five legendary emperors, also called 高辛氏[Gao1 xin1 shi4]
嚴	tight (closely sealed); stern; strict
嚴了眼兒	up to the eyeballs; full to overflowing; jampacked
嚴以律己	to be strict with oneself (idiom); to demand a lot of oneself
嚴冬	severe winter
嚴刑	strict law; cruel punishment; to carry out cruel law rigorously
嚴刑拷打	torture; interrogation by torture
嚴加	sternly; strictly; harshly
嚴厲	severe; strict
嚴厲打擊	to strike a severe blow; to crack down; to take strong measures
嚴厲批評	to criticize severely; to slate
嚴嚴實實	(sealed) tightly; (wrapped) closely; (covered) completely
嚴守	to strictly maintain
嚴密	tight; strict; closely controlled; rigorous and thorough
嚴寒	bitter cold; severe winter
嚴實	(sealed) tight; close; (hidden) safely
嚴島	Itsukushima (island in Hiroshima, Japan)
嚴島神社	Itsukushima Shrine (Shinto shrine in Hiroshima, Japan)
嚴峻	grim; severe; rigorous
嚴復	Yan Fu (1853-1921), influential Chinese writer and translator of Western books, esp. on social sciences
嚴慈	strict and compassionate; strict as a father and tender as a mother
嚴懲	to punish severely
嚴懲不貸	to punish severely (idiom)
嚴打	to crack down on; to take severe measures against
嚴控	to strictly control (abbr. for 嚴格控制|严格控制[yan2 ge2 kong4 zhi4])
嚴整	(of troops) in neat formation; (fig.) orderly
嚴斥	to scold; to censure
嚴於律己	to be strict with oneself
嚴明	strict and impartial; firm
嚴查	to investigate strictly
嚴格	strict; stringent; tight; rigorous
嚴格來說	strictly speaking
嚴格來講	strictly speaking
嚴格隔離	rigorous isolation
嚴正	sternly; solemn
嚴父	strict or stern father
嚴禁	to strictly prohibit
嚴絲合縫	(idiom) to fit together snugly; to dovetail perfectly
嚴緊	strict; tight
嚴肅	(of an atmosphere etc) solemn; grave; serious
嚴苛	severe; harsh
嚴詞	forceful (criticism etc); to use strong words
嚴謹	rigorous; strict; careful; (of writing) well organized; meticulous
嚴辭	stern words
嚴酷	bitter; harsh; grim
嚴重	grave; serious; severe; critical
嚴重問題	serious problem
嚴重後果	grave consequence; serious repercussion
嚴重急性呼吸系統綜合症	severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)
嚴重性	seriousness
嚴重關切	serious concern
嚴防	to take strict precautions; on your guard
嚴飭	careful; precise
嚵	(variant of 饞|馋[chan2]) gluttonous; greedy
嚶	calling of birds
嚷	to shout; to bellow; to make a big deal of sth
嚷劈	shout oneself hoarse
嚷嚷	to argue noisily; to shout; to make widely known
嚼	to chew; also pr. [jue2]
嚼勁	chewiness
嚼勁兒	chewiness
嚼子	bit; mouthpiece
嚼舌	to gossip; to argue unnecessarily
嚼舌根	to gossip; to argue unnecessarily
嚼舌頭	to gossip; to argue unnecessarily
嚼蠟	insipid
嚼酒	alcoholic drink made by fermenting chewed rice
嚼頭	chewiness
囀	to sing (of birds or insects); to warble; to chirp
囁	move the mouth as in speaking
囁呫	to whisper
囁嚅	to stammer; to mumble; to speak haltingly
囁囁	talkative; light and soft (of voice)
囂	clamor
囂張	rampant; unbridled; arrogant
囂張氣焰	(idiom) overweening attitude; threatening manner
囂張跋扈	arrogant and despotic
囅	smilingly
囆	(used in an ancient given name)
囈	to talk in one's sleep
囈語	to talk in one's sleep; crazy talk
囉	used in 囉唆|啰唆[luo1 suo5] and 囉嗦|啰嗦[luo1 suo5]
囉唆	long-winded; wordy; troublesome; pesky
囉唣	to create a disturbance; to make trouble; to harass
囉里囉嗦	long-winded; verbose
囊	used in 囊膪[nang1 chuai4] and 囊揣[nang1 chuai4]
囊中取物	as easy as reaching for it from a bag (idiom); in the bag
囊中羞澀	to be embarrassingly short of money
囊括	to include; to embrace; to bring together
囊泡	vesicle
囊空如洗	(idiom) penniless; broke
囊胚	(zoology) blastula; (mammology) blastocyst
囊腫	cyst (med.)
囊膪	soft, fat meat of pig's belly; sow's sagging teats; weakling
囊袋	pouch
囊謙縣	Nangqên, a county in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 玉樹藏族自治州|玉树藏族自治州[Yu4 shu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
囌	used in 嚕囌|噜苏[lu1 su1]
囍	double happiness (similar to 喜喜); symbol of good luck, esp. marriage
囑	to enjoin; to implore; to urge
囑咐	to urge; to exhort
囑託	to entrust a task to sb else
囒	used in 囒噸|𪢠吨[Lan2 dun1]
囒噸	(old) London (now written 倫敦|伦敦[Lun2 dun1])
囓	to gnaw
囓齒類	rodents
囔	muttering, indistinct speech
囔囔	to murmur; to speak in a low voice
囗	enclosure
囚	prisoner
囚人	prisoner; convict
囚室	prison cell
囚徒	prisoner; convict
囚犯	prisoner; convict
囚禁	to imprison; captivity
囚籠	cage used to hold or transport prisoners
囚衣	prison uniform
囚錮鋒	occluded front (meteorology)
四	four; 4
四一二	12th April
四一二事變	the coup of 12th Mar 1927, an attempt by Chiang Kai-shek to suppress the communists
四一二反革命政變	counterrevolutionary coup of 12th April 1927, Chiang Kai-shek's coup against the communists in Shanghai
四一二慘案	the massacre of 12th Mar 1927
四下	everywhere
四下裡	all around
四不像	common name for 麋鹿[mi2 lu4], Père David's deer (Elaphurus davidianus), which is said to resemble an amalgam of animals such as a cow, deer, donkey and horse
四世同堂	Four Generations Under One Roof, novel by Lao She 老舍[Lao3 She3]
四人幫	Gang of Four: Jiang Qing 江青[Jiang1 Qing1], Zhang Chunqiao 張春橋|张春桥[Zhang1 Chun1 qiao2], Yao Wenyuan 姚文元[Yao2 Wen2 yuan2], Wang Hongwen 王洪文[Wang2 Hong2 wen2], who served as scapegoats for the excesses of the cultural revolution
四仰八叉	(idiom) sprawled out on one's back
四個全面	Four Comprehensives (political guidelines announced by President Xi Jinping, 2015)
四個現代化	Deng Xiaoping's four modernizations practiced from the 1980s (possibly planned together with Zhou Enlai), namely: modernization of industry, agriculture, national defense and science and technology
四元數	quaternion (math.)
四兩撥千斤	(lit.) four ounces can move a thousand catties (idiom)
四出文錢	coin minted in the reign of Emperor Ling of Han 漢靈帝|汉灵帝[Han4 Ling2 Di4], with a square hole in the middle and four lines radiating out from each corner of the square (hence the name 四出文)
四分之一	one-quarter
四分五裂	(idiom) fragmented; scattered; in disarray; at sixes and sevens
四分位數	quartile (statistics)
四分曆	"quarter remainder" calendar, the first calculated Chinese calendar, in use from the Warring States period until the early years of the Han dynasty
四分衛	quarterback (QB) (American football)
四分音符	crotchet (music)
四則運算	the four basic operations of arithmetic (addition, subtraction, multiplication and division)
四化	abbr. for 四個現代化|四个现代化[si4 ge4 xian4 dai4 hua4], Deng Xiaoping's four modernizations
四十	forty; 40
四十二章經	The Sutra in Forty-two Sections Spoken by the Buddha, the first Chinese Buddhist text, translated in 67 AD by Kasyapa-Matanga 迦葉摩騰|迦叶摩腾[Jia1 ye4 Mo2 teng2] and Gobharana 竺法蘭|竺法兰[Zhu2 fa3 lan2] (Dharmaraksha)
四合院	courtyard house with a fully enclosed courtyard (type of Chinese residence)
四周	all around
四國	Shikoku (one of the four main islands of Japan)
四國犬	Shikoku (dog)
四圍	all around; on all sides; encircled
四境	all the borders
四壁蕭然	four bare walls
四大	the four elements: earth, water, fire, and wind (Buddhism)
四大佛教名山	Four Sacred Mountains of Buddhism, namely: Mt Wutai 五臺山|五台山 in Shanxi, Mt Emei 峨眉山 in Sichuan, Mt Jiuhua 九華山|九华山 in Anhui, Mt Potala 普陀山 in Zhejiang
四大名著	the Four Classic Novels of Chinese literature, namely: A Dream of Red Mansions 紅樓夢|红楼梦[Hong2 lou2 Meng4], Romance of Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4], Water Margin 水滸傳|水浒传[Shui3 hu3 Zhuan4], Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]
四大天王	the four heavenly kings (Sanskrit vajra)
四大發明	the Four Great Inventions (papermaking, printing, the compass, and gunpowder, traditionally regarded as the four major inventions of ancient China)
四大皆空	lit. the four elements are vanity (idiom); this world is an illusion
四大盆地	four great basin depressions of China, namely: Tarim 塔里木盆地 in south Xinjiang, Jungar 準葛爾盆地|准葛尔盆地 and Tsaidam or Qaidam 柴達木盆地|柴达木盆地 in north Xinjiang Sichuan 四川盆地
四大石窟	the four great caves, namely: Longmen Grottoes 龍門石窟|龙门石窟[Long2 men2 Shi2 ku1] at Luoyang, Henan, Yungang Caves 雲岡石窟|云冈石窟[Yun2 gang1 Shi2 ku1] at Datong, Shanxi, Mogao Caves 莫高窟[Mo4 gao1 ku1] at Dunhuang, Gansu, and Mt Maiji Caves 麥積山石窟|麦积山石窟[Mai4 ji1 Shan1 Shi2 ku1] at Tianshui, Gansu
四大美女	the four legendary beauties of ancient China, namely: Xishi 西施[Xi1 shi1], Wang Zhaojun 王昭君[Wang2 Zhao1 jun1], Diaochan 貂蟬|貂蝉[Diao1 Chan2] and Yang Yuhuan 楊玉環|杨玉环[Yang2 Yu4 huan2]
四大鬚生	Four great beards of Beijing opera, namely: Ma Lianliang 馬連良|马连良, Tan Fuying 譚富英|谭富英, Yang Baosen 楊寶森|杨宝森, Xi Xiaobo 奚嘯伯|奚啸伯
四子王	Siziwang banner or Dörvön-xüüxed khoshuu in Ulaanchab 烏蘭察布|乌兰察布[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4], Inner Mongolia
四子王旗	Siziwang banner or Dörvön-xüüxed khoshuu in Ulaanchab 烏蘭察布|乌兰察布[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4], Inner Mongolia
四季	four seasons, namely: spring 春[chun1], summer 夏[xia4], autumn 秋[qiu1] and winter 冬[dong1]
四季如春	four seasons like spring; favorable climate throughout the year
四季豆	green bean; French bean; runner bean
四季豆腐	four seasons beancurd
四害	"the four pests", i.e. rats, flies, mosquitoes, and sparrows
四射	to radiate all around
四小龍	Four Asian Tigers; East Asian Tigers
四川外國語大學	Sichuan International Studies University (SISU)
四川大地震	Great Sichuan Earthquake (2008)
四川大學	Sichuan University
四川山鷓鴣	(bird species of China) Sichuan partridge (Arborophila rufipectus)
四川旋木雀	(bird species of China) Sichuan treecreeper (Certhia tianquanensis)
四川日報	Sichuan Daily
四川林鴞	(bird species of China) Sichuan wood owl (Strix davidi)
四川柳鶯	(bird species of China) Sichuan leaf warbler (Phylloscopus forresti)
四川盆地	Sichuan basin
四川省	Sichuan Province, capital Chengdu 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4] (short name 川[Chuan1] or 蜀[Shu3])
四川雉鶉	(bird species of China) buff-throated monal-partridge (Tetraophasis szechenyii)
四平八穩	everything steady and stable (idiom); overcautious and unimaginary
四平市	Siping, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
四庫	the four book depositories, namely: classics 經|经, history 史, philosophy 子[zi3], belles-lettres 集
四庫全書	Siku Quanshu (collection of books compiled during Qing dynasty)
四強	the top four
四強賽	semifinals
四德	four Confucian injunctions 孝悌忠信 (for men), namely: piety 孝 to one's parents, respect 悌 to one's older brother, loyalty 忠 to one's monarch, faith 信 to one's male friends
四捨五入	(math.) to round up or down; to round off
四散	to disperse; to scatter in all directions
四散奔逃	to scatter in all directions
四方	four-way; four-sided; in all directions
四方步	a slow march
四方臉	square-jawed face
四方臺區	Sifangtai, a district of Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
四旁	nearby regions
四日市	Yokkaichi (city in Japan)
四旬節	First Sunday of Lent
四旬齋	Lent (Christian period of forty days before Easter)
四時	the four seasons, namely: spring 春[chun1], summer 夏[xia4], autumn 秋[qiu1] and winter 冬[dong1]
四更	fourth of the five night watch periods 01:00-03:00 (old)
四書	Four Books, namely: the Great Learning 大學|大学, the Doctrine of the Mean 中庸, the Analects of Confucius 論語|论语, and Mencius 孟子
四會市	Sihui, a county-level city in Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
四月	April; fourth month (of the lunar year)
四月份	April
四條	four of a kind; quads (poker)
四次	fourth; four times; quartic
四民	"the four classes" of ancient China, i.e. scholars, farmers, artisans, and merchants
四氟化硅	silicon tetrafluoride SiF4
四氟化鈾	uranium tetrafluoride (UF4)
四氫大麻酚	Tetrahydrocannabinol, THC
四氯乙烯	tetrachloroethylene
四氯化碳	carbon tetrachloride
四海	(fig.) the whole world
四海之內皆兄弟	all men are brothers
四海昇平	(idiom) the whole world is at peace
四海為家	to regard the four corners of the world all as home (idiom)
四海飄零	drifting aimlessly all over the place (idiom)
四清	the Four Cleanups Movement (1963-66)
四清運動	the Four Cleanups Movement (1963-66), which aimed to cleanse the politics, economy, organization and ideology of the Communist Party
四溢	(of a perfume or a foul odor) permeating the whole place
四濺	(of droplets, sparks etc) to fly about in all directions
四瀆	(archaic) the four rivers (Yangtze 長江|长江[Chang2 Jiang1], Yellow 黃河|黄河[Huang2 He2], Huai 淮河[Huai2 He2], Ji 濟水|济水[Ji3 Shui3])
四物湯	four-substance decoction (si wu tang), tonic formula used in Chinese medicine
四環素	tetracycline
四目相對	(of two people) to look into each other's eyes
四眼田雞	four-eyes (facetious term for a person who wears glasses)
四碳糖	tetrose (CH2O)4, monosaccharide with four carbon atoms
四級	grade 4; fourth class; category D
四級士官	sergeant first class
四維	the four social bonds: propriety, justice, integrity and honor
四維空間	four-dimensional space (math.)
四縣腔	Sixian dialect of Hakka Chinese
四聖諦	the Four Noble Truths (Buddhism)
四聲	the four tones of Middle Chinese: level tone 平聲|平声, rising tone 上聲|上声, departing tone 去聲|去声 and entering tone 入聲|入声
四聲杜鵑	(bird species of China) Indian cuckoo (Cuculus micropterus)
四肢	the four limbs of the body
四肢支撐式	low plank (yoga pose)
四胡	sihu (or "khuurchir" in Mongolian), a bowed instrument with four strings, primarily associated with Mongolian and Chinese culture
四腳朝天	four legs facing the sky (idiom); flat on one's back
四腳蛇	lizard
四舊	the Four Olds (target of the Cultural Revolution)
四葉草	four-leaf clover
四處	all over the place; everywhere and all directions
四號電池	AAA battery (Tw); PRC equivalent: 七號電池|七号电池[qi1 hao4 dian4 chi2]
四角	the four corners (of a rectangle)
四角形	(geometry) quadrangle; quadrilateral
四角柱體	cuboid; rectangular prism (math.)
四角號碼	four corner code (input method for Chinese characters)
四角褲	boxer shorts
四診	(TCM) the four methods of diagnosis, namely 望診|望诊[wang4 zhen3] (observation), 聞診|闻诊[wen2 zhen3] (auscultation and olfaction), 問診|问诊[wen4 zhen3] (interrogation), 切診|切诊[qie4 zhen3] (pulse feeling and palpation)
四諦	the Four Noble Truths (Budd.), covered by the acronym 苦集滅道|苦集灭道[ku3 ji2 mie4 dao4]: all life is suffering 苦[ku3], the cause of suffering is desire 集[ji2], emancipation comes only by eliminating passions 滅|灭[mie4], the way 道[dao4] to emancipation is the Eight-fold Noble Way 八正道[ba1 zheng4 dao4]
四象	four divisions (of the twenty-eight constellations 二十八宿[er4 shi2 ba1 xiu4] of the sky into groups of seven mansions), namely: Azure Dragon 青龍|青龙[Qing1 long2], White Tiger 白虎[Bai2 hu3], Vermilion Bird 朱雀[Zhu1 que4], Black Tortoise 玄武[Xuan2 wu3]
四起	to spring up everywhere; from all around
四輪定位	wheel alignment (automobile maintenance)
四輪馬車	chariot
四輪驅動	four-wheel drive
四近	nearby
四通八達	roads open in all directions (idiom); accessible from all sides
四邊	four sides
四邊形	(geometry) quadrilateral
四郊	suburb; outskirts (of town)
四部曲	tetralogy
四鄰	one's nearest neighbors
四鄰八舍	(idiom) the whole neighborhood
四重奏	quartet (musical ensemble)
四門轎車	sedan (motor car)
四靈	four divinities; four divine emperors
四面	all sides
四面八方	(idiom) all directions; all around
四面楚歌	lit. on all sides, the songs of Chu (idiom)
四面體	tetrahedron
四項基本原則	the Four Cardinal Principles enunciated by Deng Xiaoping 鄧小平|邓小平[Deng4 Xiao3 ping2] in 1979: to uphold the socialist road, the dictatorship of the proletariat, the leadership of the CCP, and Maoism and Marxism-Leninism
四頭肌	quadriceps muscle group; thigh muscles
四顧	to look around
四驅車	four-by-four (vehicle); 4x4
四體	one's four limbs; two arms and two legs
四體不勤，五穀不分	never move your four limbs, can't distinguish the five crops (idiom); living as a parasite
四麻	four-player mahjong
囝	child
囝仔	(Tw) child; youngster (Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [gín-á])
回	to go back; to return; to turn back; to turn around
回事	(old) to report to one's master
回交	backcrossing (i.e. hybridization with parent)
回京	to return to the capital
回佣	commission; sales
回來	to return; to come back
回信	to reply; to write back; letter written in reply
回信地址	return address
回充	to recharge
回光返照	final radiance of setting sun
回光鏡	concave reflector (e.g. in spotlight)
回函	a reply (in writing)
回到	to return to
回力球	(sports) jai alai; cesta punta; ball used in this sport
回升	to rise again after a fall; to pick up; rally (stock market etc)
回南天	weather phenomenon characterized by condensation of warm moist air on cool surfaces during the transition from winter to spring in Southern China
回去	to return; to go back
回口	to answer back
回合	one of a sequence of contests (or subdivisions of a contest) between the same two opponents
回合制	turn-based (gaming)
回吐	to regurgitate; (fig.) (of a stock market) to give up (gains)
回味	to call to mind and ponder over; aftertaste
回味無窮	to have a rich aftertaste; (fig.) memorable; to linger in one's memory
回單	receipt
回嗔作喜	to go from anger to happiness (idiom)
回嘴	to answer back; to retort
回回	(old) the Hui ethnic group (Chinese Muslims); a Hui person
回回青	Mohammedan blue (a cobalt blue pigment imported from Persia, used as an underglaze on Chinese porcelain during the Ming dynasty)
回國	to return to one's home country
回執	receipt (written acknowledgement of receipt of an item)
回執單	receipt
回報	(in) return; reciprocation; payback
回堵	(Tw) (of traffic) to be jammed; traffic backup
回填	to backfill
回墨印	self-inking stamp
回天	to reverse a desperate situation
回天乏術	(idiom) nothing can be done to remedy the situation; beyond recovery
回奉	to return a compliment; to give a return present
回娘家	(of a wife) to return to her parental home
回家	to return home
回家吃自己	(coll.) (Tw) to get sacked; to be fired
回帖	to reply to an invitation
回彈	(of sth that has been deformed) to spring back to original shape
回形針	paper clip
回復	to recover; to revert; to return to (good health, normal condition etc)
回心轉意	to change one's mind (idiom)
回想	to recall; to recollect; to think back
回憶	to recall; memories
回憶錄	memoir
回應	to respond; response
回懟	(Internet slang) to retaliate verbally; to hit back (at critics)
回扣	brokerage; a commission paid to a middleman; euphemism for a bribe
回抽	to pull back; to withdraw; (finance) (of a stock price etc) to retrace
回拜	to pay a return visit
回採	stoping (excavating ore using stepped terraces); to extract ore
回描	flyback (of electron beam in cathode ray tube); retrace
回擊	to fight back; to return fire; to counterattack
回收	to recycle; to reclaim; to retrieve
回收站	recycling center; waste materials collection depot
回放	to replay; to play back
回教	Islam
回教徒	Muslim
回敬	to return a compliment; to give sth in return
回數	number of times (sth happens); number of chapters in a classical novel
回文	palindrome
回旋曲	rondo
回族	Hui ethnic group (Chinese Muslims)
回族人	Hui person; member of Hui ethnic group living across China
回春	return of spring
回暖	(of the weather) to warm up again
回望	to return sb's gaze; to meet sb's eyes; to look back (to one's rear)
回本	to recoup one's investment
回條	receipt; note acknowledging receipt
回款	payment of money owing
回歸	to return to; to retreat; regression (statistics)
回歸年	the solar year
回歸熱	recurring fever
回歸線	tropic
回民	Hui ethnic group (Chinese muslims)
回民區	Huimin, a district of Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
回沖	backwash
回波	echo (e.g. radar); returning wave
回流	to flow back; reflux; circumfluence
回溯	to recall; to look back upon
回滾	(computing) to roll back; rollback
回潮	to become moist again; to revive (usually of sth bad); resurgence
回火	to temper (iron); to flare back; flareback (in a gas burner)
回爐	to melt down; to remelt (metals); fig. to acquire new education
回甘	to have a sweet aftertaste
回甜	to have a sweet aftertaste
回目	chapter title (in a novel)
回眸	to glance back; to look back; retrospective
回神	to collect one's thoughts (after being surprised or shocked)
回祿	traditional Fire God; destruction by fire
回祿之災	(idiom) fire disaster; conflagration
回禮	to return a greeting; to send a gift in return
回程	return trip
回稟	to report back to one's superior
回空	to return empty (i.e. to drive back with no passengers or freight)
回答	to reply; to answer; reply; answer
回籠	to steam again; to rewarm food in a bamboo steamer
回紇	Huihe, ancient name of an ethnic group who were the ancestors of the Uyghurs 維吾爾族|维吾尔族[Wei2 wu2 er3 zu2] and the Yugurs 裕固族[Yu4 gu4 zu2]
回絕	to rebuff; to refuse; to turn down
回繞	winding
回老家	to go back to one's roots; to return to one's native place
回耗	to write back; to send a reply
回聲	echo
回聲定位	echolocation
回腸	ileum (segment of small intestine between the jejunum 空腸|空肠[kong1 chang2] and appendix 盲腸|盲肠[mang2 chang2])
回腸盪氣	soul-stirring (of drama, poem or artwork); heart-rending
回航	to return to port
回良玉	Hui Liangyu (1944-) PRC Hui national career politician from Guilin, background in economics, politburo member 2002-2012, deputy chair of State Council 2003-2013
回落	to fall back
回血	(medicine) (of blood) to flow back into the IV tube
回覆	to reply (by letter, email etc); reply; answer
回見	See you later!
回視	regression (psychology)
回訪	(pay a) return visit
回話	to reply
回調	callback (computing)
回調函數	callback function (computing)
回請	to return an invitation
回護	to stick up for a wrongdoer
回購	buyback; repurchase; to buy back
回贈	to give sb (a gift) in return
回跌	to fall back (of water level or share prices)
回路	to return; circuit (e.g. electric); loop
回車	to turn a vehicle around; (computing) "carriage return" character
回車符	(computing) "carriage return" character (ASCII code 13)
回車鍵	(computing) enter key; return key (on a keyboard)
回返	to return; to go back; to come back
回退	to revert (computing); to return (a package or letter) to the sender
回過頭來	to turn one's head; to turn around
回還	to return
回郵信封	self-addressed stamped envelope (SASE)
回鈴音	ringback tone
回鍋	to cook again; to rewarm food
回鍋油	reused cooking oil
回鍋肉	twice-cooked pork
回鑾	return of the emperor
回門	first return of bride to her parental home
回電	to call sb back (on the phone); a return call; to reply to a telegram
回音	echo; reply; turn (ornament in music)
回頭	to turn round; to turn one's head; later; by and by
回頭客	repeat customer
回頭率	frequency with which people turn their heads to look; degree of attracting attention
回頭見	See you!; Bye!
回頭路	the road back to where one came from
回顧	to look back; to review
回顧展	retrospective (exhibition)
回顧歷史	to look back at history
回饋	to repay a favor; to give back; feedback
回首	to turn around; to look back; (fig.) to recall the past
回馬槍	sudden thrust (that catches the opponent off guard)
回駁	to refute
回鶻	Huihu, ancient name of an ethnic group who were the ancestors of the Uyghurs 維吾爾族|维吾尔族[Wei2 wu2 er3 zu2] and the Yugurs 裕固族[Yu4 gu4 zu2]
囟	fontanel (gap between the bones of an infant's skull)
囟腦門	fontanel (gap between the bones of an infant's skull)
囟門	fontanel (gap between the bones of an infant's skull)
因	cause; reason; because
因之	for this reason
因人成事	to get things done relying on others (idiom); with a little help from his friends
因人而異	varying from person to person (idiom); different for each individual
因公	in the course of doing one's work; on business
因公殉職	to die in the course of performing one's duty (idiom)
因利乘便	(idiom) to rely on the most favorable method
因努伊特	Inuit
因勢利導	to take advantage of the new situation (idiom)
因吹斯汀	(loanword) interesting
因噎廢食	lit. not eating for fear of choking (idiom); fig. to cut off one's nose to spite one's face
因地制宜	(idiom) to use methods in line with local circumstances
因如此	because of this
因子	factor; (genetic) trait; (math.) factor; divisor
因孕而婚	to marry because of an unplanned pregnancy
因小失大	to save a little only to lose a lot (idiom)
因式	factor; divisor (of a math. expression)
因式分解	factorization
因循	to continue the same old routine; to carry on just as before
因循守舊	(idiom) to continue in the same old rut
因愛成恨	hatred caused by love (idiom)
因應	to respond accordingly to; to adapt to; to cope with
因故	for some reason
因數	factor (of an integer); divisor
因斯布魯克	Innsbruck, city in Austria
因時制宜	(idiom) to use methods appropriate to the current situation
因材施教	(idiom) to teach in accordance with the student's aptitude; to tailor instruction to the individual student
因果	karma; cause and effect
因果報應	(Buddhism) retribution; karma
因此	thus; consequently; as a result
因為	because; owing to; on account of
因父之名	in the Name of the Father (in Christian worship)
因特網	Internet
因由	reason; cause; predestined relationship (Buddhism)
因禍得福	to have some good come out of a bad situation (idiom)
因私	private (i.e. not work-related 因公[yin1 gong1])
因紐特	Inuit
因素	element; factor
因緣	chance; opportunity; predestined relationship
因而	therefore; as a result; thus
因襲	to follow old patterns; to imitate existing models
因變數	(Tw) (math.) dependent variable
因變量	dependent variable
因陀羅	Indra (a Hindu deity)
因陋就簡	crude but simple methods (idiom); use whatever methods you can
囡	child; daughter
囡囡	little darling; baby
囤	to store; to hoard
囤積	to stock up; to lay in supplies; to hoard (for speculation)
囤積居奇	to hoard and profiteer; to speculate
囤貨	to stock up; to stockpile
囥	(dialect) to hide; to conceal
囧	(archaic) light, bright (variant of 冏[jiong3])
囨	expression of contempt equivalent to 呸[pei1]
囪	(bound form) chimney
囫	used in 囫圇|囫囵[hu2 lun2]
囫圇	whole
囫圇吞下	to swallow whole; (fig.) to swallow (lies etc)
囫圇吞棗	to swallow in one gulp (idiom); (fig.) to accept without thinking
囮	decoy
困	to trap; to surround; hard-pressed
困倦	tired; weary
困厄	in deep water; difficult situation
困境	predicament; plight
困守	to stand a siege; trapped in a besieged city
困局	dilemma; predicament; difficult situation
困惑	bewildered; perplexed; confused
困惑不解	to feel perplexed
困擾	to perplex; to disturb; to cause complications
困獸猶鬥	a cornered beast will still fight (idiom)
困窘	embarrassment
困苦	deprivation; distressed; miserable
困難	difficult; challenging; straitened circumstances
困難在於	the problem is...
困頓	fatigued; exhausted; poverty-stricken
囷	granary; Taiwan pr. [jun1]
囹	used in 囹圄[ling2 yu3]
囹圄	(literary) prison
固	hard; strong; solid
固件	(computing) firmware
固化	to solidify; to harden; (fig.) to make permanent; to become fixed
固原市	Guyuan, prefecture-level city in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 寧夏回族自治區|宁夏回族自治区[Ning2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
固執	obstinate; stubborn; to fixate on
固執己見	to persist in one's views
固始縣	Gushi, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
固守	to strongly defend one's position; to be entrenched; to cling to
固安縣	Gu'an, a county in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
固定	to fix; to fasten; to set rigidly in place
固定型思維	fixed mindset (as opposed to growth mindset)
固定收入	fixed income
固定詞組	set phrase
固定資產	fixed assets
固定電話	fixed-line telephone; landline telephone
固定點	fixed point; calibration point
固形物	solid particles in liquid
固形量	(Tw) (on packaging) drained weight
固態	solid state (physics)
固態硬盤	(computing) solid-state drive (SSD)
固有	intrinsic to sth; inherent; native
固有名詞	proper noun
固有詞	native words (i.e. not derived from Chinese, in Korean and Japanese etc)
固氮	nitrogen fixation
固然	admittedly (it's true that...)
固窮	to endure poverty stoically
固網	(telecommunications) fixed network; landline (abbr. for 固定網絡|固定网络[gu4 ding4 wang3 luo4])
固網電信	landline (fixed-line) telecommunications
固若金湯	(lit.) secure as a city protected by a wall of metal and a moat of boiling water (idiom)
固話	fixed-line telephone; landline telephone (abbr. for 固定電話|固定电话[gu4 ding4 dian4 hua4])
固醇	sterol (chemistry)
固鎮縣	Guzhen, a county in Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
固陽縣	Guyang, a county in Baotou City 包頭市|包头市[Bao1 tou2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
固體	solid
固體物理	solid state physics
固體膠	glue stick
固體食物	solid foods; solids
囿	park; to limit; be limited to
圂	grain-fed animals; pigsty
圃	garden; orchard
圃鵐	(bird species of China) ortolan bunting (Emberiza hortulana)
圄	prison; to imprison
圇	used in 囫圇|囫囵[hu2 lun2]
圈	livestock enclosure; pen; fold; sty
圈a	at symbol, @
圈內	among insiders; within the community (of publishers, cyclists or cosplayers etc); (esp.) in show business circles
圈內人	insider
圈圈	to draw a circle; cliques; circles
圈圈叉叉	tic-tac-toe
圈圈點點	annotations made in a book; fig. remarks and comments
圈地	staking a claim to territory; enclosure
圈地運動	Enclosure Movement
圈套	trap; snare; trick
圈子	circle; ring; (social) circle
圈定	to highlight sth by drawing a circle around it
圈數	number of laps
圈狀物	hoop
圈票處	(Tw) voting booth
圈粉	(neologism c. 2015) (coll.) to win (sb) over as a fan
圈錢	(coll.) (neologism, attested by 2006) to extract money unscrupulously (e.g. through IPOs, fandom, or game mechanics) while offering little genuine value; to grift; to fleece
圈養	to rear (an animal) in an enclosure
圈點	to mark a text with dots and circles; to punctuate
圉	horse stable; frontier
圉人	(old) horse breeder
圉限	boundary; limit
圊	restroom; latrine
國	country; nation; state; (bound form) national
國中	junior high school (Tw); abbr. for 國民中學|国民中学[guo2 min2 zhong1 xue2]
國中之國	state within a state
國事	affairs of the nation; politics
國事訪問	state visit
國人	compatriots (literary); fellow countrymen
國企	state-owned enterprise
國保	Domestic Security Protection Bureau, the department of the Ministry of Public Security responsible for political security, monitoring dissidents, religious groups and activities deemed a threat to state stability (abbr. for 國內安全保衛局|国内安全保卫局[Guo2 nei4 An1 quan2 Bao3 wei4 ju2])
國偵局	abbr. for 美國國家偵察局|美国国家侦察局
國債	national debt; government debt
國內	domestic; internal (to a country); civil
國內外	domestic and international; at home and abroad
國內安全保衛局	Domestic Security Protection Bureau, the department of the Ministry of Public Security responsible for political security, monitoring dissidents, religious groups and activities deemed a threat to state stability
國內戰爭	civil war; internal struggle
國內生產毛額	(Tw) gross domestic product; GDP
國內生產總值	gross domestic product (GDP)
國內線	domestic flight; internal line (air, train, ferry etc)
國共	the Chinese Nationalist Party and the Chinese Communist Party (abbr. for 國民黨|国民党[Guo2 min2 dang3] + 共產黨|共产党[Gong4 chan3 dang3])
國共內戰	Chinese Civil War (1927–1949)
國共兩黨	Guomindang 國民黨|国民党[Guo2 min2 dang3] and Chinese Communist Party 共產黨|共产党[Gong4 chan3 dang3]
國共合作	United Front (either of the two alliances between the Guomindang and the Communist Party, 1923-1927 and 1937-1945)
國別	nationality; country-specific (history, report etc)
國力	a nation's power
國務	affairs of state
國務卿	Secretary of State
國務委員	member of the State Council (in China)
國務次卿	Under Secretary of State
國務總理	minister of state (old usage)
國務長官	secretary of state (esp. historical, or Japanese or Korean usage)
國務院	(PRC) State Council; (USA) State Department
國務院台灣事務辦公室	Taiwan Affairs Office
國務院國有資產監督管理委員會	State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council
國務院新聞辦公室	State Council Information Office of the People's Republic of China
國務院港澳事務辦公室	Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council
國勢	national strength; situation in a state
國勢日衰	national decline
國史	national history; dynastic history
國名	name of country
國君	monarch
國土	country's territory; national land
國土安全	homeland security
國土安全局	Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
國土安全部	(US) Department of Homeland Security
國土資源部	Ministry of Land and Resources (MLR), formed in 1998
國境	national border; frontier
國外	abroad; external (affairs); overseas
國外市場	foreign market
國大	abbr. for 國民大會|国民大会, National Assembly of the Republic of China (extant during various periods between 1913 and 2005)
國大黨	Indian Congress party
國威	national prestige
國子監	Guozijian, the highest educational administrative body in imperial China, in some dynasties also functioning as the highest institution of academic research and learning (Imperial College, aka Imperial Academy)
國字	Chinese character (Hanzi)
國字臉	square face
國學	Chinese national culture; studies of ancient Chinese civilization
國安	national security (abbr. for 國家安全|国家安全[guo2 jia1 an1 quan2])
國安局	abbr. for 國家安全局|国家安全局[Guo2 jia1 An1 quan2 ju2]
國安部	PRC Ministry of State Security
國定假日	national holiday
國宴	state banquet
國家	country; nation; state
國家一級保護	Grade One State protected (species)
國家主席	president (title of the head of state of China and several other nations)
國家主義	nationalism; statism
國家互聯網信息辦公室	Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC)
國家代碼	country code
國家信訪局	National Public Complaints and Proposals Administration, national ombudsman office of the PRC
國家元首	head of state
國家公園	national park
國家圖書館	national library
國家地震局	China Earthquake Administration (CEA); State Seismological Bureau
國家外匯管理局	State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE)
國家安全	national security
國家安全局	National Security Bureau (NSB) (Tw)
國家安全部	PRC Ministry of State Security
國家廣播電視總局	National Radio and Television Administration (NRTA), formerly SAPPRFT, the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television (2013-2018) and SARFT, the State Administration of Radio, Film, and Television (prior to 2013)
國家政策	state policy
國家文物委員會	National Committee of Cultural Heritage
國家文物局	PRC State Administration of Cultural Heritage (SACH)
國家文物鑒定委員會	National Commission for the Identification of Cultural Heritage
國家新聞出版廣電總局	State Administration for Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television (SAPPRFT) (2013-2018) (abbr. to 廣電總局|广电总局[Guang3 dian4 Zong3 ju2])
國家旅遊度假區	national tourist resort (PRC official designation)
國家標準中文交換碼	CNS 11643, Chinese character coding adopted in Taiwan, 1986-1992
國家標準化管理委員會	Standardization Administration of PRC (SAC)
國家標準碼	Guo Biao or GB, the standard PRC encoding, abbr. 國標碼|国标码
國家海洋局	State Oceanic Administration (PRC)
國家漢辦	Office of Chinese Language Council International (known colloquially as "Hanban"), an organ of the PRC government which develops Chinese language and culture teaching resources worldwide, and has established Confucius Institutes 孔子學院|孔子学院[Kong3 zi3 Xue2 yuan4] internationally
國家火山公園	Volcanoes National Park, Hawaii
國家環保總局	(PRC) State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA), former incarnation (until 2008) of 環境保護部|环境保护部[Huan2 jing4 Bao3 hu4 bu4]
國家留學基金管理委員會	China Scholarship Council (CSC)
國家發展和改革委員會	PRC National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), formed in 2003
國家發展改革委	PRC National Development and Reform Commission
國家發展計劃委員會	PRC State Development and Planning Committee, set up 1998 to replace State Planning Committee 國家計劃委員會|国家计划委员会, replaced in 2003 by National Development and Reform Commission 國家發展和改革委員會|国家发展和改革委员会
國家監委	National Supervision Commission (abbr. for 國家監察委員會|国家监察委员会[Guo2 jia1 Jian1 cha2 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
國家監察委員會	National Supervision Commission of the PRC, anti-corruption agency established in 2018
國家社會主義	national socialism; Nazism
國家級	(administrative) national-level
國家級旅遊度假區	national-level tourist resort
國家統計局	(China) National Bureau of Statistics (NBS)
國家興亡，匹夫有責	The rise and fall of the nation concerns everyone (idiom). Everyone bears responsibility for the prosperity of society.
國家航天局	China National Space Administration (CNSA)
國家航空公司	flag carrier
國家計劃委員會	PRC State Planning Committee, set up in 1952, replaced in 1998 by State Development and Planning Committee 國家發展計劃委員會|国家发展计划委员会[Guo2 jia1 Fa1 zhan3 Ji4 hua4 Wei3 yuan2 hui4] then in 2003 by National Development and Reform Commission 國家發展和改革委員會|国家发展和改革委员会[Guo2 jia1 Fa1 zhan3 he2 Gai3 ge2 Wei3 yuan2 hui4]
國家計委	PRC State Planning Committee, abbr. for 國家計劃委員會|国家计划委员会[Guo2 jia1 Ji4 hua4 Wei3 yuan2 hui4]
國家質量監督檢驗檢疫總局	AQSIQ
國家軍品貿易局	State Bureau of Military Products Trade (SBMPT)
國家軍品貿易管理委員會	State Administration Committee on Military Products Trade (SACMPT)
國家醫療服務體系	National Health Service (UK)
國家重點學科	National Key Disciplines (disciplines recognized as important and supported by PRC central government, including medicine, science, chemistry, engineering, commerce and law)
國家重點實驗室	State Key Laboratories (university laboratories in PRC supported by the central government)
國家開發銀行	China Development Bank
國家隊	national team
國家電力監管委員會	State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PRC)
國家電網公司	State Grid Corporation of China
國富兵強	prosperous country with military might
國富論	The Wealth of Nations (1776) by Adam Smith 亞當·斯密|亚当·斯密[Ya4 dang1 · Si1 mi4]
國寶	national treasure
國小	elementary school (Tw); abbr. for 國民小學|国民小学[guo2 min2 xiao3 xue2]
國師	teachers of the state
國度	country; nation
國庫	national treasury
國庫券	treasury bond
國弱民窮	the country weakened and the people empoverished (idiom)
國徽	the national emblem of the PRC (a red circle containing the five stars of the PRC flag over Tiananmen 天安門|天安门[Tian1 an1 men2])
國徽法	Law on the National Emblem of the PRC, promulgated in 1991
國恥	national humiliation, refers to Japanese incursions into China in the 1930s and 40s, and more especially to Mukden railway incident of 18th September 1931 九一八事變|九一八事变 and subsequent Japanese annexation of Manchuria
國情	the characteristics and circumstances particular to a country
國情咨文	speech delivered by a head of state to the legislature (e.g. (USA) State of the Union Address, (Russia) Address to the Federal Assembly etc)
國慶	National Day
國慶日	national day
國慶節	PRC National Day (October 1st)
國手	(sports) member of the national team; national representative
國技	national pastime; national sport
國政	national politics; archaic rank, "Minister of State"
國教	state religion
國新辦	State Council Information Office of the People's Republic of China, abbr. for 國務院新聞辦公室|国务院新闻办公室[Guo2 wu4 yuan4 Xin1 wen2 Ban4 gong1 shi4]
國族	people of a country; nation
國旗	flag (of a country)
國是	(literary) variant of 國事|国事[guo2 shi4]
國書	credentials (of a diplomat); documents exchanged between nations
國會	Parliament (UK); Congress (US); Diet (Japan)
國會大廈	capitol
國會山	Capitol Hill, Washington, D.C.
國會議員	member of congress; congressman
國會議長	chair (or president, speaker etc) of national congress
國有	nationalized; public; government owned
國有企業	state-owned enterprise
國有公司	state enterprise
國有化	nationalization
國有資產監督管理委員會	State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC), an entity that oversees state-owned assets at a particular level of government, the most prominent one being the SASAC of the State Council 國務院|国务院[Guo2 wu4 yuan4]
國服	national dress; traditional attire
國朝	the current dynasty
國柄	state power
國槐	locust tree (Sophora japonica)
國槐樹	locust tree (Sophora japonica)
國樂	national music; Chinese traditional music
國標	national standard (abbr. for 國家標準|国家标准[guo2 jia1 biao1 zhun3])
國標碼	Guo Biao or GB, the standard PRC encoding, abbr. for 國家標準碼|国家标准码
國標舞	international standard ballroom dancing
國歌	national anthem
國殤	(literary) person who dies for their country
國民	nationals; citizens; people of a nation
國民中學	junior high school (Tw); abbr. to 國中|国中[guo2 zhong1]
國民小學	elementary school (Tw)
國民年金	(Tw) National Pension, a social security scheme in Taiwan
國民年金保險	(Tw) National Pension Insurance, a social security scheme in Taiwan
國民待遇	(law) national treatment – the principle that foreigners or foreign goods, services and companies are accorded the same treatment as nationals or domestic goods, services and companies within the host country
國民收入	measures of national income and output
國民政府	Nationalist government (the government of the Republic of China 1925–1948)
國民生產毛額	(Tw) gross national product; GNP
國民生產總值	gross national product (GNP)
國民經濟	national economy
國民警衛隊	National Guard (United States)
國民議會	Assemblée nationale (French lower chamber); national parliament
國民革命軍	National Revolutionary Army
國民黨	Guomindang or Kuomintang (KMT); Nationalist Party
國法	national law
國泰	Cathay Pacific (Hong Kong airline)
國泰民安	the country prospers, the people at peace (idiom); peace and prosperity
國泰航空	Cathay Pacific, Hong Kong-based airline
國漫	Chinese comics
國營	state-run (company etc); nationalized
國營企業	state-operated enterprise
國父	father or founder of a nation; Father of the Republic (Sun Yat-sen)
國王	king
國璽	seal of state
國產	domestically produced
國產化	to localize (production); localization
國界	national boundary; border between countries
國界線	national border
國畫	traditional Chinese painting
國破家亡	the country ruined and the people starving (idiom)
國祚	the period over which a dynasty or nation endures
國禮	state gift; official gift exchanged between heads of state or governments
國稅局	(Tw) National Taxation Bureau, local branch of the Ministry of Finance 財政部|财政部[Cai2 zheng4 bu4]
國立	national; state-run; public
國立臺北科技大學	National Taipei University of Technology
國立西南聯合大學	National Southwest Combined University (Peking, Tsinghua and Nankai Universities in exile in Kunming 1937-1945)
國策	a national policy
國籍	nationality
國粹	national essence; quintessence of national culture
國罵	curse word; four-letter word
國美	GOME, electronics chain founded in Beijing in 1987
國美電器	GOME Electrical Appliances (founded in Beijing, 1987)
國考	(PRC) national civil service exam (abbr. for 國家公務員考試|国家公务员考试[guo2 jia1 gong1 wu4 yuan2 kao3 shi4])
國聯	abbr. for 國際聯盟|国际联盟[Guo2 ji4 Lian2 meng2], League of Nations (1920-1946), based in Geneva, precursor of the UN
國腳	national football team member
國臺辦	Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council (abbr. for 國務院台灣事務辦公室|国务院台湾事务办公室[Guo2 wu4 yuan4 Tai2 wan1 Shi4 wu4 Ban4 gong1 shi4])
國航	Air China (abbr. for 中國國際航空公司|中国国际航空公司[Zhong1 guo2 Guo2 ji4 Hang2 kong1 Gong1 si1])
國色天香	national grace, divine fragrance (idiom); an outstanding beauty
國花	national flower (emblem, e.g. peony 牡丹[mu3 dan1] in China)
國菜	national food specialty
國葬	state funeral
國藥	Chinese herbal medicine
國號	official name of a nation (includes dynastic names of China: 漢|汉[Han4], 唐[Tang2] etc)
國蠹	traitor; public enemy
國行	(of a product etc) officially sold for the mainland China market
國術	martial arts
國補	national subsidy (abbr. for 國家補貼|国家补贴[guo2 jia1 bu3 tie1])
國計民生	(idiom) national economy and people's livelihood
國語	Chinese language (Mandarin), emphasizing its national nature
國語注音符號第一式	Mandarin Phonetic Symbols 1 (official name of the phonetic system of writing Chinese used in Taiwan)
國語羅馬字	Gwoyeu Romatzyh, a romanization system for Chinese devised by Y.R. Chao and others in 1925-26
國貨	domestically produced goods
國貿	abbr. for 國際貿易|国际贸易[guo2 ji4 mao4 yi4]
國資	state-owned capital (abbr. for 國有資本|国有资本[guo2 you3 zi1 ben3])
國資委	State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) (abbr. for 國有資產監督管理委員會|国有资产监督管理委员会[Guo2 you3 Zi1 chan3 Jian1 du1 Guan3 li3 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
國賊	traitor to the nation
國賓	state visitor; visiting head of state
國賓館	state guesthouse
國足	national soccer team
國辦	General Office of the State Council (abbr. for 國務院辦公廳|国务院办公厅[Guo2 wu4 yuan4 Ban4 gong1 ting1])
國運	fate of the nation
國道	national highway
國都	national capital
國醫	traditional Chinese medicine (TCM)
國門	(archaic) capital's gate; country's border
國關	abbr. for 國際關係學院|国际关系学院[Guo2 ji4 Guan1 xi4 Xue2 yuan4], University of International Relations, Beijing
國防	national defense
國防利益	(national) defense interests
國防工業	defense industry
國防現代化	modernization of national defense, one of Deng Xiaoping's Four Modernizations
國防科學技術工業委員會	Commission for Science, Technology and Industry for National Defense (COSTIND)
國防色	(Tw) khaki; military camouflage colors
國防語言學院	US Defense Language Institute (founded 1941)
國防部	Defense Department; Ministry of National Defense
國防部長	Defense secretary; Defense Minister
國防預算	defense budget
國隊	national team
國際	international
國際主義	internationalism
國際互聯網絡	Internet
國際人權標準	international human rights norms
國際先驅論壇報	International Herald Tribune
國際兒童節	International Children's Day (June 1)
國際公認	internationally recognized
國際共產主義運動	Comintern; the international communist movement
國際刑事警察組織	International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol)
國際刑警組織	Interpol (International Criminal Police Organization)
國際勞動節	May Day; International Labor Day (May 1)
國際勞工組織	International Labor Organization
國際化	to internationalize; internationalization
國際協會	international association
國際原子能機構	International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
國際和平基金會	international peace foundation
國際商會	International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)
國際商業機器	International Business Machines; IBM
國際單位	international unit
國際單位制	International System of Units
國際外交	foreign policy
國際大赦	Amnesty International
國際奧委會	International Olympic Committee (IOC)
國際奧林匹克委員會	International Olympic Committee
國際婦女節	International Women's Day (March 8)
國際媒體	the international media
國際性	international; internationalism
國際戰爭罪法庭	International war crimes tribunal
國際收支	balance of payments
國際數學聯盟	International Mathematical Union
國際文傳通訊社	Interfax News Agency
國際文傳電訊社	Interfax, Russian non-governmental news agency
國際日期變更線	international date line
國際棋聯	International Chess Federation
國際標準化組織	International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
國際機場	international airport
國際歌	The Internationale
國際民航組織	International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)
國際民間組織	international humanitarian organization
國際法	international law
國際法庭	International Court of Justice in The Hague
國際法院	International Court of Justice
國際海事組織	International Maritime Organization
國際清算銀行	Bank for International Settlements
國際特赦	Amnesty International
國際特赦組織	Amnesty International
國際田徑聯合會	International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF)
國際田聯	International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF)
國際社會	the international community
國際私法	conflict of laws
國際空間站	International Space Station
國際筆會	International PEN
國際米蘭	FC Internazionale Milano (football club)
國際米蘭足球俱樂部	FC Internazionale Milano (football club)
國際米蘭隊	FC Internazionale Milano (football club)
國際級	(at an) international level
國際網絡	global network; Internet
國際羽毛球聯合會	International Badminton Federation
國際聯盟	League of Nations (1920-1946), based in Geneva, precursor of the UN
國際腫瘤研究機構	International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC)
國際航空聯合會	Fédération Aéronautique Internationale (FAI), world body of gliding and aeronautic sports
國際航空運輸協會	International Air Transport Association (IATA)
國際象棋	chess
國際貨幣基金	International Monetary Fund (IMF)
國際貨幣基金組織	International Monetary Fund (IMF)
國際貨運代理	international transport agency
國際貿易	international trade
國際足球聯合會	FIFA; International Federation of Association Football
國際足聯	abbr. for 國際足球聯合會|国际足球联合会, FIFA, international federation of football associations
國際跳棋	checkers (Western board game)
國際醫療中心	International Medical Center
國際金融公司	International Finance Corporation
國際關係	international relations
國際關係學院	University of International Relations, Beijing, established in 1949
國際電信聯盟	International Telecommunications Union; ITU
國際電報電話諮詢委員會	International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee (CCITT)
國際電話	international call
國際音標	international phonetic alphabet
國際體操聯合會	Fédération Internationale de Gymnastique
國難	national calamity
國音	official pronunciation standard (esp. in the Republic of China in the early 20th century)
國風	traditional Chinese style
國體	state system (i.e. form of government); national prestige
圌	name of a mountain
圍	to encircle; to surround; all around
圍住	to surround; to gird
圍兜	bib
圍剿	to encircle and subdue (an armed group or insurgents); (fig.) to gang up on; to attack or criticize collectively
圍嘴	(baby) bib
圍困	to besiege
圍坐	to sit in a circle; seated around (a narrator)
圍城	Fortress Besieged, 1947 novel by Qian Zhongshu 錢鍾書|钱钟书[Qian2 Zhong1 shu1], filmed as a TV serial
圍城打援	to besiege and strike the relief force (idiom); strategy of surrounding a unit to entice the enemy to reinforce, then striking the new troops
圍堰	a cofferdam
圍場	enclosure; pig pen
圍場滿族蒙古族自治縣	Weichang Manchu and Mongol Autonomous County, in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
圍堵	to blockade; to surround; to hem in
圍墾	to reclaim land by diking
圍巾	scarf; shawl
圍捕	to fish by casting a net; to capture; to surround and seize
圍擊	to besiege
圍攏	to crowd around
圍攻	to besiege; to beleaguer; to attack from all sides
圍棋	the game of Go
圍標	bid rigging
圍欄	fencing; railings; fence
圍毆	to gang up and beat
圍爐	to gather around the stove
圍牆	perimeter wall; fence
圍產	perinatal
圍產期	perinatal period
圍籬	fence; paling
圍網	seine net; wire mesh fence; fence screen
圍繞	to revolve around; to center on (an issue)
圍脖	muffler; scarf
圍腰	apron
圍術期	perioperative period
圍裙	apron
圍觀	to stand in a circle and watch
圍護	to protect from all sides
圍護結構	building envelope
圍起	to surround; to encircle; to enclose
圍魏救趙	lit. to besiege 魏[Wei4] and rescue 趙|赵[Zhao4] (idiom)
圐	used in 圐圙[ku1 lu:e4]
圐圙	enclosed pasture (Mongolian loanword)
園	land used for growing plants; site used for public recreation
園丁	gardener
園區	site developed for a group of related enterprises; (industrial or technology) park
園囿	park
園圃	garden plot
園地	garden area
園林	gardens; park; landscape garden
園藝	gardening; horticultural
園遊會	(Tw) garden party; fete (held in a garden or park); carnival; fair
園長	person in charge of a place that ends in 園|园[yuan2] (e.g. a vineyard 葡萄園|葡萄园[pu2 tao5 yuan2], zoo 動物園|动物园[dong4 wu4 yuan2], cemetery 陵園|陵园[ling2 yuan2] etc)
圓	circle; round; circular
圓光	radiance emanating from the head; halo
圓函數	circular function; trigonometric function
圓口綱脊椎動物	cyclostome (marine biology)
圓周	circumference; circle
圓周率	(math.) the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter (π)
圓圈	circle
圓場	to mediate; to broker a compromise
圓夢	to fulfill one's dream
圓子	kind of dumpling; sticky rice ball
圓孔	round hole
圓寂	(of a Buddhist monk or nun) to pass away; to die
圓屋頂	dome
圓弧	arc (segment of a circle)
圓形	round; circular
圓形劇場	amphitheater
圓形木材	log
圓心	center of circle
圓房	(of a child bride) to consummate marriage
圓括號	parentheses; round brackets ( )
圓拱	a round vault
圓明園	Yuanmingyuan, the Old Summer Palace, destroyed by the British and French army in 1860
圓暈	concentric circles; circular ripples
圓月	full moon
圓柏	Chinese juniper (Juniperus chinensis)
圓柱	column; cylinder
圓柱形	cylindrical
圓柱體	cylinder (geometry)
圓桌	round table
圓桌會議	round table conference
圓滑	smooth and evasive; slick and sly
圓滑線	slur (music)
圓滾滾	plump
圓滿	satisfactory; consummate; perfect
圓潤	mellow and full; suave; smooth and round
圓珠	bead
圓珠筆	ballpoint pen
圓球	ball; sphere; globe
圓瑛	Yuan Ying (1878-1953), Buddhist monk
圓環	ring (any circular object); (math.) annulus
圓白菜	round white cabbage (i.e. Western cabbage)
圓盤	disk
圓禿	spot baldness (alopecia areata)
圓窗	(anatomy) round window (one of the two openings from the middle ear into the inner ear)
圓筒	circular cylinder; drum
圓缺	waxing and waning (of the moon)
圓腹鯡	round herring
圓舞	round dance
圓舞曲	waltz
圓融	accommodating; (Buddhism) completely integrated
圓規	compass (drafting)
圓規座	Circinus (constellation)
圓角	rounded corner; fillet
圓謊	to patch up one's lie (when inconsistencies appear)
圓軌道	circular orbit (in astronomy and in astronautics)
圓通	flexible; accommodating
圓錐	cone; conical; tapering
圓錐形	conical; coniform
圓錐曲線	conic section
圓錐狀	conical
圓錐體	cone
圓頂	dome
圓領	crew neck; round neck (of pull-over garment, e.g. T-shirt)
圓麵餅	round flat bread; pita bread
圓點	dot
圓鼓鼓	round and bulging; rotund; protruding
圕	library (contracted form of 圖書館|图书馆[tu2 shu1 guan3])
圖	diagram; picture; drawing
圖例	legend (of a map, etc); diagram; illustration
圖們市	Tumen, a county-level city in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
圖們江	Tumen river in Jilin province 吉林省, forming the eastern border between China and North Korea
圖像	image; picture; graphic
圖像分割	image segmentation (computer vision)
圖像用戶介面	graphical user interface; GUI
圖像處理	image processing
圖像識別	image classification (computer vision)
圖冊	book of pictures or charts; (math.) atlas
圖坦卡蒙	Tutankhamen, king of ancient Egypt 1333-1323 BC
圖坦卡門	Tutankhamen, king of ancient Egypt 1333-1323 BC
圖存	to try to survive
圖層	layer (imaging)
圖形	picture; figure; diagram
圖形卡	graphics card
圖形用戶界面	graphical user interface (GUI)
圖形界面	Graphical User Interface (GUI) (computing)
圖形處理單元	(computing) graphics processing unit (GPU)
圖形處理器	(computing) graphics processing unit (GPU)
圖恩	Thun, Switzerland
圖景	landscape (in a picture); (fig.) landscape (i.e. general situation)
圖書	books (in a library or bookstore)
圖書管理員	librarian
圖書館	library
圖書館員	librarian
圖木舒克	Tumxuk shehiri (Tumshuq city) or Túmùshūkè subprefecture level city in west Xinjiang
圖木舒克市	Tumxuk shehiri (Tumshuq city) or Túmùshūkè subprefecture level city in west Xinjiang
圖林根	Thuringia (state in Germany)
圖案	design; pattern
圖標	graphic symbol; (computing) icon
圖樣	diagram; blueprint
圖樣圖森破	(Internet slang) to have a simplistic view of sth (transcription of "too young, too simple" – English words spoken by Jiang Zemin 江澤民|江泽民[Jiang1 Ze2 min2] in chastizing Hong Kong reporters in 2000)
圖波列夫	Tupolev, Russian plane maker
圖爾	Tours (city in France)
圖爾庫	Turku (city in Finland)
圖片	picture; photograph
圖片報	Bild-Zeitung
圖版	printing plate bearing an image (illustration, photo etc)
圖瓦	Tuva, a republic in south-central Siberia, Russia
圖瓦盧	Tuvalu
圖畫	drawing; picture
圖皮	Tupi (a group of Indigenous peoples of South America)
圖盧斯	Toulouse (France)
圖盧茲	Toulouse (city in France)
圖示	graphic representation; diagram; (Tw) (computing) icon
圖窮匕見	(lit.) the assassin's dagger, concealed in a map scroll, is suddenly revealed when the map is unrolled (referring to the attempted assassination of Ying Zheng 嬴政[Ying2 Zheng4] by Jing Ke 荊軻|荆轲[Jing1 Ke1] in 227 BC) (idiom)
圖章	stamp; seal
圖紙	blueprint; drawing; design plans
圖表	chart; diagram
圖西族	Tutsi, an ethnic group in Rwanda and Burundi
圖解	illustration; diagram; graphical representation
圖解說明	explanatory diagram
圖論	graph theory (math.)
圖謀	to conspire
圖譜	archive of graphics (e.g. maps, documents or botanical figures); atlas
圖軸	scroll painting
圖輯	slide show; photo gallery (on website)
圖釘	thumbtack
圖錄	catalog
圖鑑	illustrated handbook
圖阿雷格	Tuareg (nomadic people of the Sahara)
圖集	collection of pictures; atlas
圖雷特氏綜合症	Tourette syndrome
圖靈	Alan Turing (1912–1954), English mathematician and logician, widely recognized as a founder of computer science
圖靈機	(math.) Turing machine
圖靈獎	Turing Award
圖騰	totem (loanword)
團	round; lump; ball
團丁	(old) member of local militia
團伙	(criminal) gang; gang member; accomplice
團員	member; group member
團圓	to have a reunion
團團轉	to go round and round; running around in circles
團契	Christian association; fellowship
團年	(of a family) to come together at lunar New Year's Eve
團建	team building (abbr. for 團隊建設|团队建设[tuan2 dui4 jian4 she4])
團戰	(gaming) team battle
團扇	circular fan
團拜	to gather as a group to exchange greetings (typically at New Year)
團拜會	New Year reception
團滅	(video gaming) (of an entire team or party) to get wiped out
團結	to unite; unity; solidarity; united
團結一心	to unite as one
團結就是力量	unity is strength (revolutionary slogan and popular song of 1943)
團結工會	Solidarity (Polish worker's union)
團練	local militia formed to suppress peasant rebellion (old)
團聚	to reunite; to have a reunion
團花	rounded embroidery design
團購	group buying; collective buying
團長	regimental command; head of a delegation
團隊	team
團隊精神	group mentality; collectivism; solidarity
團風縣	Tuanfeng, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
團體	group; organization; team
團體冠軍	group championship
團體行	group travel
團魚	softshell turtle
圙	used in 圐圙[ku1 lu:e4]
圛	mist rolling upwards
圜	circle; encircle
圞	(dialect) round; circular; (dialect) whole; entire
土	surname Tu; Tu ethnic group
土丘	mound; hillock; barrow
土人	native; aborigine; clay figure
土倫	Toulon (city in France)
土共	(coll.) commie (derog., used by the KMT)
土到不行	old-fashioned; extremely kitsch
土力工程	geotechnical engineering
土包子	country bumpkin; boor
土匪	bandit
土司	sliced bread (loanword from "toast")
土味情話	cheesy pick-up lines
土器	earthenware
土地	local god; genius loci
土地公	Tudi Gong, the local tutelary god (in Chinese folk religion)
土地利用規劃	land use plan (official P.R.C. government term)
土地改革	land reform
土地神	local tutelary god (in Chinese folk religion) (same as 土地公|土地公[Tu3 di4 Gong1])
土地資源	land resources
土坎	earthen levee
土坯	mud brick; adobe; unfired earthenware
土坷垃	(dialect) clod of earth
土埂	embankment between fields
土城區	Tucheng, a district of New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
土堆	mound
土墼	sun-dried mudbrick; adobe brick
土壤	soil
土壤學	pedology (soil study)
土壩	earth dam
土家	Tujia ethnic group
土家族	Tujia ethnic group
土層	layer of soil; ground level
土崗	mound; hillock
土崩瓦解	to collapse; to fall apart
土布	homespun cloth
土庫曼	Turkmen; (Tw, HK) Turkmenistan
土庫曼人	Turkmen (person)
土庫曼斯坦	Turkmenistan
土建	civil engineering; same as 土木工程[tu3 mu4 gong1 cheng2]
土得掉渣	(coll.) rustic; uncouth
土拉弗氏菌	Francisella tularensis
土拍	land auction; to sell land at auction (abbr. for 土地拍賣|土地拍卖[tu3 di4 pai1 mai4])
土撥鼠	(zoology) marmot (in the US, esp. groundhog or woodchuck)
土改	land reform (abbr. for 土地改革[tu3 di4 gai3 ge2])
土政策	local policy; regional regulations
土方	cubic meter of earth (unit of measurement); excavated soil
土方子	(TCM) folk remedy
土方工程	earthwork
土族	Tu ethnic group
土星	Saturn (planet)
土曜日	Saturday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
土木	building; construction; civil engineering
土木工程	civil engineering
土木形骸	earth and wood framework (idiom); plain and undecorated body
土木身	one's body as wood and earth; undecorated; unvarnished (truth)
土桑	Tucson (city in Arizona)
土樓	traditional Hakka communal residence in Fujian, typically a large multistory circular structure built around a central shrine
土氣	rustic; uncouth; unsophisticated
土法	traditional method
土洋	domestic and foreign
土洋並舉	combining native and foreign methods
土洋結合	combining native and foreign methods (idiom); sophisticated and many-sided
土溫	temperature of the soil
土澳	Australia (slang term reflecting a perception of Australia as something of a backwater)
土灶	earthen stove; clay stove (typically wood-fired)
土炕	heated brick common bed
土牛	clay ox; mound of earth on a dike (ready for emergency repairs)
土牛木馬	clay ox, wooden horse (idiom); shape without substance
土特產	local specialty
土狗	native dog
土狼	aardwolf (Proteles cristatus), a small insectivorous relative of the hyena
土生土長	(idiom) (of people) born and raised in the locality; (of art forms, political parties, enterprises, products etc) developed locally from the outset; wholly indigenous
土產	produced locally; local product (with distinctive native features)
土皇帝	local tyrant
土石方	excavated soil and rock; construction spoil
土石流	(Tw) debris flow; mudslide
土神	earth God
土穀祠	temple dedicated to the local tutelary god 土地神[tu3 di4 shen2] and the god of cereals
土窯	earthen kiln; loess cave
土老帽	hillbilly; yokel; redneck
土耳其	Turkey
土耳其人	a Turk; Turkish person
土耳其旋轉烤肉	Turkish döner kebab
土耳其玉	turquoise (gemstone) (loanword)
土耳其石	(mineralogy) (loanword) turquoise
土耳其語	Turkish (language)
土耳其軟糖	Turkish delight; Lokum
土腥	(of a taste or smell) earthy
土茴香	dill seed
土著	aboriginal
土著人	indigenous person; aboriginal
土葬	burial (in earth)
土衛	moon of Saturn
土衛二	Enceladus (moon of Saturn), aka Saturn II
土衛六	Titan (moon of Saturn), aka Saturn VI
土裡土氣	unsophisticated; rustic; uncouth
土製	homemade; earthen
土話	vernacular; slang; dialect
土語	dialect; patois
土豆	potato; (Tw) peanut (CL:顆|颗[ke1])
土豆泥	mashed potato
土豆絲	julienned potato
土豆網	Tudou, a Chinese video-sharing website
土豚	aardvark
土豪	local tyrant; local strong man; (slang) nouveau riche
土豪劣紳	local bosses, shady gentry (idiom); dominant local mafia
土豬	aardvark
土財主	local wealthy landlord; country money-bags; rich provincial
土貨	local produce
土路	dirt road
土邦	native state (term used by British Colonial power to refer to independent states of India or Africa)
土門	Tumen or Bumin Khan (-553), founder of Göktürk khanate
土階茅屋	lit. earthen steps and a small cottage
土階茅茨	lit. earthen steps and a thatched hut
土雞	free-range chicken
土音	local accent
土頭土腦	rustic; uncouth; unsophisticated
土魠魚	(Tw) Spanish mackerel
土鱉	ground beetle
土默特右旗	Tumed right banner, Mongolian Tümed baruun khoshuu, in Baotou 包頭|包头[Bao1 tou2], Inner Mongolia
土默特左旗	Tumed left banner, Mongolian Tümed züün khoshuu, in Hohhot 呼和浩特[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4], Inner Mongolia
圢	flat; level; (used in place names)
圣	(literary) to dig with persistent effort (e.g. to gather wild vegetables)
在	to exist; to be alive; (of sb or sth) to be (located) at
在一起	together
在下	under; myself (humble)
在下面	underneath
在世	to be alive
在乎	to rest with; to lie in; to be due to (a certain attribute)
在任	to be in office; incumbent
在位	to be on the throne; to reign
在位時代	reign (of a king, emperor etc)
在來米	(Tw) long-grained non-glutinous rice
在先	to come first; previous; prior
在內	(included) in it; among them
在前	ahead; formerly; in the past
在千鈞一髮之際	at the critical moment; in the nick of time
在即	near at hand; imminent; within sight
在台	in Taiwan (used attributively)
在售	available for purchase
在地	(Tw) local; native (from Taiwanese 在地, Tai-lo pr. [tsāi-tē])
在地下	underground
在場	to be present; to be on the scene
在外	outer; excluded
在天之靈	soul and spirit of the deceased
在家	to be at home
在家千日好，出門一時難	lit. at home, one can spend a thousand days in comfort, but spending a day away from home can be challenging (idiom)
在家靠父母，出外靠朋友	one depends on one's parents when at home, and on one's friends when away from home (idiom)
在家靠父母，出門靠朋友	one depends on one's parents when at home, and on one's friends when away from home (idiom)
在崗	to be at one's post
在座	to be present
在建	under construction
在後	behind
在意	to care about; to mind
在我看	in my opinion; in my view
在我看來	in my opinion
在戶外	outdoors
在所不計	irrespective of; to have no concerns whatsoever about
在所不辭	not to refuse to (idiom); not to hesitate to
在所難免	to be unavoidable (idiom)
在握	(fig.) to hold in one's hands; to be within grasp
在教	to be a believer (in a religion, esp. Islam)
在於	to rest with; to lie in; to be due to (a certain attribute)
在旁	alongside; nearby
在望	within view; visible
在朝	sitting (currently serving, e.g. board members)
在校	(attributive) to be enrolled in a school (or university etc)
在槍口	at gunpoint
在此	hereto; here
在此之前	before that; beforehand; previously
在此之後	after this; afterwards; next
在此之際	meanwhile; at the same time
在此後	after this; from then on
在深處	deeply
在理	reasonable; sensible
在線	online; connected to the Internet
在編	(of personnel or positions) having permanent status under China's official staffing system 編制|编制[bian1 zhi4], with full benefits and job security
在職	to be employed; to be in post; on-the-job
在職訓練	on-the-job training
在華	within China; during one's visit to China
在行	to be adept at sth; to be an expert in a trade or profession
在訴訟期間	pendente lite; during litigation
在讀	to be studying (at a school or research institute)
在身	to possess
在逃	to be at large (of a criminal)
在途	in transit (of passengers, goods etc)
在這之前	before then; up until that point
在這期間	during time; in this time
在那兒	(adverbial expression indicating that the attention of the subject of the verb is focused on what they are doing, not distracted by anything else)
在野	to be out of (political) office; to be out of power
在野黨	opposition party
圩	(dialect) country fair; country market
圪	(phonetic)
圪墶	mound; knoll; swelling or lump on skin; pimple; knot; lump
圫	(used in place names)
圬	to plaster; whitewash
圭	jade tablet, square at the base and rounded or pointed at the top, held by the nobility at ceremonies
圭亞那	Guyana
圮	destroyed; injure
圯	bridge, bank
地	earth; ground; field
地三鮮	dish consisting of stir-fried potato, eggplant and green pepper
地上	on the ground; on the floor
地下	underground; subterranean; covert
地下城	dungeon (in video games or fantasy settings etc)
地下室	basement; cellar
地下情	secret love affair
地下核試驗	underground nuclear test
地下水	groundwater
地下莖	(botany) underground stem
地下街	underground shopping arcade; underground mall
地下通道	underground passage; underpass
地下道	underground passage; underpass
地下錢莊	underground bank; illegal private bank; loan shark
地下鐵路	subway
地中海	(coll.) bald crown; bald spot on the crown of the head
地中海貧血	thalassemia (medicine)
地主	landlord; landowner; host
地主家庭	land-owning household
地主隊	home team (sports)
地主階級	the landlord class
地位	position; status; place
地保	(old) local constable
地價	land price
地兒	place; space
地函	(geology) (the earth's) mantle (Tw)
地利	favorable location; in the right place; productivity of land
地利人和	favorable geographical and social conditions (idiom); good location and the people satisfied
地力	fertility; productivity (of soil or land)
地動	earthquake (old term)
地動儀	the world's first seismograph invented by Zhang Heng 張衡|张衡[Zhang1 Heng2] in 132
地動山搖	the earth quaked, the mountains shook (idiom); a tremendous battle
地勢	terrain; topography relief
地勤	(aviation) ground services; ground staff
地勤人員	(airport) ground crew
地區	region; area (informal or geographical term)
地區差價	local differences in price; regional price variation
地區性	regional; local
地區法院	regional court
地區經濟	local economy; regional economy
地區衝突	local or regional confrontation
地台	floor; platform
地史	earth history; geological history
地名	place name; toponym
地和	(mahjong) earthly hand; a hand that is completed by a non-dealer on their first draw
地圖	map
地圖冊	atlas
地圖集	collection of maps; atlas
地地道道	thoroughgoing; authentic; 100%
地址	address
地址解析協議	address resolution protocol; ARP
地域	area; district; region
地基	foundations (of a building); base
地堡	bunker (underground fortification)
地塊	parcel of land; (geology) massif
地塞米松	dexamethasone
地塹	trench, rift valley
地壇	Temple of Earth (in Beijing)
地壟	lines on ridges on ploughed field
地外文明	extraterrestrial civilization
地大物博	vast territory with abundant resources (idiom)
地契	title deed (for land)
地委	prefectural Party committee
地宮	underground palace (as part of imperial tomb)
地對空導彈	ground-to-air missile
地層	stratum (geology)
地層學	stratigraphy (geology)
地岬	cape (geography); headland
地市	prefecture-level administrative jurisdiction (including prefecture-level cities, autonomous prefectures, prefectures and leagues)
地市級	prefecture level (the administrative tier below the provincial level, including prefecture-level cities, autonomous prefectures, prefectures and leagues)
地帶	zone
地幔	(geology) (the earth's) mantle
地平線	horizon
地底	subterranean; underground
地府	hell; the nether world; Hades
地廣人稀	vast, but sparsely populated
地形	topography; terrain; landform
地形圖	topographic map
地心	the center of the Earth; (attributive) geocentric
地心吸力	Earth's gravitational pull
地心引力	Earth's gravity
地心緯度	geocentric latitude (i.e. angle between the equatorial plane and straight line from center of the earth)
地心說	geocentric theory
地拉那	Tirana, capital of Albania
地排車	handcart
地接	local guide; tour escort
地推	on-the-ground promotion (abbr. for 地面推廣|地面推广[di4 mian4 tui1 guang3])
地攤	roadside stall
地支	the 12 earthly branches 子[zi3], 丑[chou3], 寅[yin2], 卯[mao3], 辰[chen2], 巳[si4], 午[wu3], 未[wei4], 申[shen1], 酉[you3], 戌[xu1], 亥[hai4], used cyclically in the calendar and as ordinal numbers I, II etc
地方	region; regional (away from the central administration); local
地方主義	regionalism; favoring one's local region
地方官	local official
地方性	local
地方性斑疹傷寒	murine typhus fever
地方戲	local Chinese opera, such as Shaoxing opera 越劇|越剧[Yue4 ju4], Sichuan opera 川劇|川剧[Chuan1 ju4], Henan opera 豫劇|豫剧[Yu4 ju4] etc
地方戲曲	local Chinese opera, such as Shaoxing opera 越劇|越剧[Yue4 ju4], Sichuan opera 川劇|川剧[Chuan1 ju4], Henan opera 豫劇|豫剧[Yu4 ju4] etc
地方法院	county court; district court
地方自治	local autonomy; home rule
地景	landscape; terrain
地暖	underfloor heating; radiant floor heating
地書	writing on the ground with a large brush dipped in water
地板	floor
地板價	floor price; rock-bottom price
地板磚	floor tile
地核	(geology) Earth's core
地栽	to grow in open ground (as opposed to pot cultivation 盆栽[pen2 zai1])
地標	landmark
地檢署	district prosecutor's office
地步	stage; degree (to which a situation has evolved)
地段	section; district
地殼	the Earth's crust
地殼運動	(geotectonics) crustal movement; diastrophism
地毯	carpet; rug
地毯式轟炸	carpet bombing
地毯拖鞋	carpet slippers
地洞	tunnel; cave; burrow; dugout
地溝油	illegally recycled waste cooking oil
地滑	landslide
地滾球	ten-pin bowling; bowling ball; (baseball etc) ground ball
地漏	drain; underground drainpipe; floor gutter
地熱	geothermal heat
地熱發電廠	geothermal electric power station
地熱能	geothermal energy
地熱資源	geothermal resources
地熱電站	geothermal electric power station
地爐	fire pit
地牛翻身	(Tw) (coll.) earthquake (According to a folk tale, earthquakes are caused by the occasional movements of an ox that lives under the earth.)
地牢	prison; dungeon
地狹人稠	(idiom) small and densely populated
地獄	hell; underworld; (Buddhism) Naraka
地獄笑話	(coll.) transgressive humor that treats tragedy, suffering, or other morally sensitive topics as jokes (implying that laughing would send one to hell)
地球	the earth
地球儀	globe
地球化學	geochemistry
地球同步衛星	(astronomy) geosynchronous satellite
地球同步軌道	(astronomy) geosynchronous orbit
地球村	global village
地球物理	geophysics
地球物理學	geophysics
地球磁場	earth's magnetic field
地球科學	earth science
地球軌道	Earth orbit (orbit of a satellite around the Earth)
地球靜止衛星	(astronomy) geostationary satellite
地球靜止軌道	(astronomy) geostationary orbit
地理	geography
地理位置	geographical location
地理學	geography
地理學家	geographer
地理定位	geolocation
地理極	geographic pole; north and south poles
地理緯度	geographic latitude (i.e. angle between the equatorial plane and the normal to the reference ellipsoid)
地瓜	sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas); yam bean (Pachyrhizus erosus)
地瓜乾	dried sweet potato slices
地瓜鳥	(bird species of China) Malayan night heron (Gorsachius melanolophus)
地瓜麵	sweet potato or yam noodles
地產	real estate; landed estate; landed property
地產大亨	Monopoly (game); known as 大富翁[Da4 fu4 weng1] in PRC
地產稅	property tax
地畝	area of farmland
地痞	bully; local ruffian
地皇	Earthly Sovereign, one of the three legendary sovereigns 三皇[san1 huang2]
地皮	lot; section of land; ground
地盤	domain; territory under one's control; foundation of a building
地磁	Earth's magnetic field; geomagnetism
地磁場	the earth's magnetic field
地磁暴	geomagnetic storm
地磚	floor tile
地祇	earth spirit
地租	land rent; land tax
地稅	local tax (abbr. for 地方稅|地方税[di4 fang1 shui4])
地積	land area
地穴	pit; burrow; crypt
地窖	cellar; basement
地窨	cellar
地窨子	cellar
地籍	cadaster
地籠	cage-like fish trap
地精	gnome; goblin
地級	(administrative) prefecture-level
地級市	prefecture-level city
地線	earth (wire); ground
地緣	geographic situation; geo-(politics etc)
地緣戰略	geostrategic
地緣政治	geopolitics; geopolitical
地緣政治學	geopolitics
地脈	geographical position according to the principles of feng shui 風水|风水[feng1 shui3]
地腳	(page) footer; (dialect) foundation (of a building); base
地藏	Kṣitigarbha, the Bodhisattva of the Great Vow (to save all souls before accepting Bodhi)
地藏王菩薩	Kṣitigarbha Bodhisattva, the Bodhisattva of the Great Vow (to save all souls before accepting Bodhi)
地藏菩薩	Kṣitigarbha Bodhisattva, the Bodhisattva of the Great Vow (to save all souls before accepting Bodhi)
地處	to be located at; to be situated in
地衣	lichen
地表	the surface (of the earth)
地表水	surface water
地西泮	diazepam (loanword); Valium
地角天涯	The ends of the earth
地調	geological survey, abbr. for 地質調查|地质调查[di4 zhi4 diao4 cha2]
地貌	(geology) landform; geomorphology
地質	geology
地質學	geology
地質學家	geologist
地質年代表	geological time scale
地質年表	geological time scale
地躺拳	Di Tang Quan - "Ground-Prone Fist"
地軸	the earth's axis
地返	floor monitor; foldback speaker; wedge monitor
地速	groundspeed (of an aircraft etc)
地道	authentic; genuine; proper
地鄰	neighbor on farmland
地錢	liverwort (Marchantia polymorpha)
地鐵	underground railway; subway; subway train
地鐵站	subway station
地陪	local guide; tour escort
地雷	land mine (CL:顆|颗[ke1]); (fig.) sore point; weak spot
地震	earthquake
地震儀	seismometer
地震區	seismic zone; earthquake belt
地震學	seismology; science of earthquakes
地震學家	seismologist; earthquake scientist
地震局	earthquake bureau
地震帶	seismic zone; earthquake belt
地震波	seismic wave
地震活動帶	seismic zone; earthquake belt
地震烈度	earthquake intensity (measure of its destructive power)
地震速報	real-time report of earthquake data; earthquake alert
地面	floor; ground; surface
地面層	ground floor; first floor
地面控制	ground control (of airborne or space operation)
地面氣壓	ground pressure
地面水	surface water
地面灌溉	surface irrigation
地面部隊	ground troops
地面零點	Ground Zero (refers to the site of the World Trade Center destroyed in 9-11-2001 attack)
地頭	place; locality; edge of a field
地頭蛇	local bully; tyrant; regional mafia boss
地鱉	Chinese ground beetle (Eupolyphaga sinensis), used in TCM
地黃	Chinese foxglove (Rehmannia glutinosa), its rhizome used in TCM
地點	place; site; location
地龍	(TCM) earthworm
圱	a field of three li
圳	(dialect) drainage ditch between fields (Taiwan pr. [zun4])
圻	boundary; a border
圾	used in 垃圾[la1 ji1]; Taiwan pr. [se4]
址	(bound form) site; location
坂井	Sakai (Japanese surname and place name)
坂本	Sakamoto (Japanese surname)
坆	grave; tomb
均	(bound form) equal; uniform; even; (literary) without exception; all
均一	even; uniform; homogeneous
均值	average value
均價	average price
均分	to split; to divide equally
均勢	equilibrium of forces; balance of power
均勻	even; well-distributed; homogeneous
均勻性	homogeneity; uniformity
均可	all are OK; both are OK; all can
均差	(numerical analysis) divided differences
均攤	to share equally; to distribute evenly
均方	mean square
均沾	to share (profits)
均濕	to moisten evenly (e.g. in tanning leather)
均熱	to heat evenly (e.g. in smelting metal)
均田制	equal-field system of Wei of the Northern dynasties 北魏 and Tang 唐 dynasties
均等	equal; impartial; fair
均等化	to equalize; leveling; making uniform
均等論	doctrine of equivalents (patent law)
均線	(finance) moving average (abbr. for 移動平均線|移动平均线[yi2 dong4 ping2 jun1 xian4])
均腐土	isohumisol (soil taxonomy)
均衡	equal; balanced; harmony
均衡器	equalizer (electronics, audio)
均變論	uniformitarianism
均質	homogenous; uniform; homogenized
坊	lane (usually as part of a street name); memorial archway
坊子區	Fangzi, a district of Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
坊間	(originally) (in) the bookshops
坊間傳言	rumors; the word on the street
坋	dust; to dust; a bank of earth
坋土	(geology) silt
坋粒	silt particle
坍	to collapse
坍塌	to collapse
坍方	to collapse; landslide
坎	pit; threshold
坎兒	critical juncture; key moment
坎兒井	karez, qanat or "horizontal well" (irrigation and water management system used in Xinjiang, Central Asia and Middle East)
坎坎	(dialect) just now
坎坷	(of a road) bumpy; (of life) rough; to be down on one's luck; to be full of frustrations and dashed hopes
坎坷不平	potholed and bumpy road (idiom); fig. full of disappointment and dashed hopes
坎坷多舛	full of trouble and misfortune (usu. referring to someone's life)
坎城	(Tw) Cannes, France
坎培拉	Canberra, capital of Australia (Tw)
坎塔布連	Cantabria in north Spain
坎塔布連山脈	Cantabrian mountain range in north Spain dividing Asturias from Castilla-Leon
坎塔布連海	Bay of Biscay (Spanish: Mare Cantabrico)
坎塔布里亞	Cantabria, Spanish autonomous region, capital Santander 桑坦德[Sang1 tan3 de2]
坎壈	to meet with misfortune
坎大哈	Kandahar (town in Southern Afghanistan)
坎大哈省	Kandahar province of Afghanistan
坎子	raised ground; bank
坎帕拉	Kampala, capital of Uganda
坎德拉	candela (unit of luminosity); standard candle
坎昆	Cancún
坎炁	(TCM) umbilical cord (used as medicine)
坎特伯雷	Canterbury
坎特伯雷故事集	The Canterbury Tales, collection of stories by Geoffrey Chaucer 喬叟|乔叟[Qiao2 sou3]
坎肩	sleeveless jacket (usually cotton); Chinese waistcoat
坎貝爾	Campbell (name)
坎貝爾侏儒倉鼠	Campbell's dwarf hamster (Phodopus campbelli)
坐	to sit; to take a seat; to take (a bus, airplane etc)
坐下	to sit down
坐不垂堂	lit. don't sit under the eaves (where tiles may fall from the roof) (idiom); fig. keep out of danger
坐井觀天	lit. to view the sky from the bottom of a well (idiom); ignorant and narrow-minded
坐享	to enjoy (the benefit of sth) without lifting a finger; to sit back and enjoy (favorable circumstances)
坐享其成	to reap where one has not sown (idiom)
坐以待斃	to sit and wait for death (idiom); resigned to one's fate
坐便器	pedestal type WC
坐像	seated image (of a Buddha or saint)
坐冷板凳	to hold an inconsequential job; to receive a cold reception
坐化	to die in a seated posture (Buddhism)
坐台小姐	bar girl; professional escort
坐吃享福	vegetative existence
坐吃山空	lit. just sitting and eating, one can deplete even a mountain of wealth (idiom)
坐商	tradesman; shopkeeper
坐墊	cushion; (motorbike) seat
坐墩	Chinese drum-shaped stool
坐大	(derog.) to become powerful or influential
坐失	to let sth slip by; to miss an opportunity
坐失機宜	to sit and waste a good opportunity (idiom); to lose the chance
坐失良機	to sit and waste a good opportunity (idiom); to lose the chance
坐好	to sit properly; to sit up straight
坐姿	sitting posture
坐定	to be seated
坐實	to serve as evidence for (an accusation etc); to reinforce (a perception); to bear out; to substantiate
坐山觀虎鬥	lit. sit on the mountain and watch the tigers fight (idiom)
坐山雕	cinereous vulture (Aegypius monachus)
坐席	seat (at a banquet); to attend a banquet
坐廁	sitting toilet (contrasted with 蹲廁|蹲厕[dun1 ce4] squat toilet)
坐廁墊	toilet seat
坐探	inside informer; mole; plant
坐擁	to possess; to have at one's disposal; to enjoy the benefit of
坐收漁利	benefit from others' dispute (idiom)
坐月子	to convalesce for a month following childbirth, following a special diet, and observing various taboos to protect the body from exposure to the "wind"
坐果	to bear fruit
坐椅	seat; chair
坐浴桶	bidet
坐浴盆	bidet
坐牢	to be imprisoned
坐班	to work office hours; on duty
坐班房	to be in prison
坐禪	to sit in meditation; to meditate
坐立不安	lit. agitated sitting or standing (idiom); restless; fidgety
坐立難安	unable to sit or stand still (out of nervousness etc) (idiom)
坐等	to sit and wait
坐而論道	to sit and pontificate; to find answers through theory and not through practice (idiom)
坐臥不寧	to be restless
坐臺	to work as a hostess in a bar or KTV
坐莊	(gambling) to be the banker or dealer
坐落	to be situated; to be located (of a building)
坐藥	suppository
坐蠟	to be embarrassed; to be put in a difficult situation
坐視	to stand by and watch; to look on passively
坐視不理	to sit and watch, but remain indifferent (idiom)
坐觀成敗	to sit and await success or failure (idiom); to wait to see the outcome of a fight before taking sides
坐車	to take the car, bus, train etc
坐鎮	(of a commanding officer) to keep watch; to oversee
坐關	(Buddhism) to sit in contemplation
坐降落傘	to do a parachute jump
坐電梯	to take an elevator
坐騎	saddle horse; mount
坐骨	ischium
坐骨神經	sciatic nerve
坐骨神經痛	sciatica
坐龍庭	to be the reigning emperor; to ascend to the imperial throne
坑	pit; hollow; depression; (mining) pit; shaft; tunnel
坑井	(mine) galleries and pits
坑人	(coll.) to cheat; to swindle; to rip sb off; to screw sb over
坑口	Hang Hau (area in Hong Kong)
坑坎	uneven (road); depression (in terrain)
坑坑窪窪	full of pits and hollows; bumpy
坑害	to trap; to frame
坑木	pit prop
坑殺	to bury alive; to ensnare
坑洞	hole; pit; pothole
坑爹	to get one's father involved in a difficult situation
坑窪	hole; hollow; depression; low-lying
坑蒙	to swindle
坑蒙拐騙	(idiom) to swindle, scam and deceive
坑道	mine shaft; gallery; tunnel
坑騙	to cheat; to swindle
坒	(literary) to adjoin
坡	slope; sloping; slanted
坡國	(coll.) Singapore
坡壘	Hainan hopea (Hopea hainanensis) (botany)
坡度	gradient; slope
坡縣	(slang) Singapore
坡路	sloping road; hill road
坡道	road on a slope; inclined path; ramp
坡頭區	Potou, a district of Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
坡鹿	Eld's deer (Panolia eldii)
坤	one of the Eight Trigrams 八卦[ba1 gua4], symbolizing earth
坤包	woman's handbag or shoulder bag
坤甸	Pontianak city, capital of West Kalimantan, Indonesia
坦	flat; open-hearted; level
坦佩雷	Tampere (Swedish Tammerfors), Finland's second city
坦克	(loanword) tank (military vehicle); (derog.) (slang) overweight woman
坦克車	tank (armored vehicle)
坦博拉	Tambora, volcano on Indonesian island of Sumbawa 松巴哇, whose 1815 eruption is greatest in recorded history
坦噶尼喀	Tanganyika, sovereign state in Africa (1961–1964), later part of Tanzania
坦噶尼喀湖	Lake Tanganyika in East Africa
坦尚尼亞	Tanzania (Tw)
坦承	to confess; to admit; to come clean
坦桑尼亞	Tanzania
坦然	calm; undisturbed
坦然無懼	remain calm and undaunted
坦率	frank; candid; straightforward
坦白	honest; forthcoming; to confess
坦蕩	magnanimous; broad and level
坦言	to say candidly; to acknowledge frankly
坦誠	candid; frank; plain dealing
坦誠相見	to trust one another fully; to treat sb with sincerity
坦途	highway; level road
坦陳	to reveal; to confess
坨	mound; heap; lump
坨兒	classifier for lumps of soft things (colloquial)
坨子	lump; heap
坩	crucible
坩堝	crucible
坪	a plain
坪山區	Pingshan, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
坫	stand for goblets
坯	adobe; mud brick; unfired brick, tile or pottery
坯件	blank (for a coin etc); breed or strain
坯子	base; semifinished product
坯布	unbleached and undyed cloth; gray cloth
坯料	semifinished materials
坯模	mold
坰	environs; wilderness
坱	(literary) dust; (literary) vast and all-pervading
坲	(of dust) to rise in the air
坳	depression; cavity; hollow; Taiwan pr. [ao1]
坳陷	(geology) depression; low-lying area
坴	a clod of earth; land
坵	hillock; mound (variant of 丘[qiu1])
坷	used in 坎坷[kan3 ke3]
坷垃	(dialect) clod (of earth)
坻	islet; rock in river
坼	to crack; to split; to break
坽	(literary) precipitous cliff; (used in place names)
垂	to hang (down); droop; dangle
垂下	to hang down
垂危	close to death; life-threatening (illness)
垂垂	gradually; to drop
垂幕	canopy
垂念	(courteous) to be so kind as to think of (me)
垂感	drape effect (fashion)
垂懸分詞	dangling participle (grammar)
垂懸結構	dangling element (grammar)
垂掛	to hang down; suspended
垂暮之年	old age
垂柳	weeping willow (Salix babylonica)
垂楊柳	weeping willow
垂死	dying
垂死掙扎	deathbed struggle; final struggle (idiom)
垂泣	to shed tears
垂涎	to drool; to salivate; (fig.) to covet; to desire greedily
垂涎三尺	to drool (over) (idiom); to yearn for; to covet
垂涎欲滴	to drool with desire (idiom); to envy; to hunger for
垂淚	to shed tears
垂直	perpendicular; vertical
垂直和短距起落飛機	vertical or short takeoff and landing aircraft
垂直尾翼	(aviation) tailfin; vertical stabilizer
垂直線	vertical line
垂直起落飛機	vertical takeoff and landing aircraft
垂直軸	vertical shaft; (math.) vertical axis
垂範	(literary) to set a shining example (for one's subordinates or future generations)
垂簾聽政	lit. to govern from behind the curtain
垂線	(math.) perpendicular line; vertical line
垂老	approaching old age
垂釣	angling
垂青	to show appreciation for sb; to look upon sb with favor
垂頭喪氣	hanging one's head dispiritedly (idiom); dejected; crestfallen
垂體	pituitary gland
垂髫	hair hanging down (child's hairstyle)
垃	used in 垃圾[la1 ji1]; Taiwan pr. [le4]
垃圾	trash; refuse; garbage
垃圾分類	waste sorting; waste separation
垃圾堆	garbage heap
垃圾工	garbage collector
垃圾桶	rubbish bin; trash can; garbage can
垃圾筒	trashcan
垃圾箱	rubbish can; garbage can; trash can
垃圾股	junk bonds; high-yield bonds
垃圾車	garbage truck (or other vehicle)
垃圾郵件	junk mail; spam; unsolicited mail
垃圾食品	junk food
垇	(used in place names)
垈	used in place names; Japanese -nuta; Korean -dae
型	mold; type; style
型別	(Tw) (computer programming) type
型式	type; pattern; version
型態	form; shape; type
型材	extruded profile
型板	template
型男	fashionable and good-looking guy (slang)
型號	model (particular version of a manufactured article)
型錄	product catalog
垌	field; farm; used in place names
垍	hard earth
垎	(literary) (of soil) dry and hard; (used in place names)
垏	(literary) earth ridge between fields; (used in place names)
垓	boundary
垓下	ancient place name, in Anhui province
垔	to restrain; to dam a stream and change its direction; a mound
垕	thick
垗	sacrifice
垙	(literary) footpath separating fields; (used in place names)
垚	embankment
垛	battlement; target
垛口	crenel
垝	(literary) dilapidated; collapsed; damaged
垝垣	collapsed wall; ruined wall
垞	mound; small hill; (used in place names)
垟	clay sheep buried with the dead
垠	limit; border; river bank
垡	to turn the soil; upturned soil; (used in place names)
垢	dirt; disgrace
垣	wall
垣曲縣	Yuanqu, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
垣衣	moss under old walls
垤	anthill; mound
垧	unit of land area (equivalent to 10 or 15 mǔ 畝|亩[mu3] in parts of northeast China, but only 3 or 5 mǔ in northwest China)
垮	to collapse (lit. or fig.)
垮塌	to collapse (of building, dam or bridge)
垮臉	(of the face) to harden; to sag
垮臺	(of a dynasty, regime etc) to collapse; to fall from power
垵	(used in place names)
垺	extremely large
垻	(used in place names) plain; flatland; (dialect) sandbar; shoal
垾	small dike
垿	earthern goblet stand also known as 反坫[fan3 dian4] (old)
埂	strip of high ground; low earth dyke separating fields
埂子	strip of high ground; low earth dyke separating fields
埃	abbr. for Egypt 埃及[Ai1 ji2] or Ethiopia 埃塞俄比亞|埃塞俄比亚[Ai1 sai4 e2 bi3 ya4]
埃克托	Hector (name)
埃克托·柏遼茲	Hector Berlioz (1803-1869), French romantic composer, author of Symphonie Fantastique
埃利斯島	Ellis Island
埃加迪群島	Aegadian Islands near Sicily, Italy
埃博拉	Ebola (virus)
埃博拉病毒	Ebola virus
埃及	Egypt
埃及古物學	Egyptology
埃及夜鷹	(bird species of China) Egyptian nightjar (Caprimulgus aegyptius)
埃及學	Egyptology
埃及豆	chickpea
埃因霍溫	Eindhoven (city in the Netherlands)
埃塔	ETA (Euskadi Ta Askatasuna or Basque homeland and freedom), Basque armed separatist group
埃塞	Ethiopia
埃塞俄比亞	Ethiopia
埃塞俄比亞界	(biogeography) the Afrotropical realm (formerly, the Ethiopian Zone)
埃夫伯里	Avebury (stone circle near Stonehenge)
埃奧羅斯	Aeolus, Greek God of winds
埃居	écu (French coin, discontinued by the end of the 18th century)
埃布羅	Ebro river (in northeast Spain)
埃布羅河	Ebro River (in northeast Spain)
埃德	Ed (name - Eduard)
埃德·米利班德	Ed Milliband, UK labor politician, opposition leader from 2010
埃德加	Edgar (name)
埃德加·愛倫·坡	Edgar Allen Poe (1809-1849), American poet and novelist
埃德加·斯諾	Edgar Snow (1905-1972), American journalist, reported from China 1928-1941, author of Red Star Over China
埃德蒙	(name) Edmund; Edmond
埃德蒙·伯克	Edmund Burke (1729-1797), Irish philosopher and political scientist, member of British Parliament
埃德蒙頓	Edmonton, capital of Alberta, Canada
埃拉托斯特尼	Eratosthenes of Cyrene (c. 276–c. 195 BC), Greek polymath
埃拉特	Eilat, Israeli port and resort on the Red sea
埃敘	Egypt-Syria
埃文	Evan; Avon; Ivan
埃文斯	Evans; Ivins; Ivens
埃文河畔斯特拉特福	Stratford-upon-Avon
埃斯庫多	escudo, former currency of Portugal and other countries
埃斯庫羅斯	Aeschylus (c. 524 BC -c. 455 BC), Greek tragedian, author of The Persians, Seven against Thebes etc
埃斯特哈齊	Esterhazy (name)
埃斯特朗	Anders Jonas Angstrom or Ångström (1814-1874), Swedish physicist
埃曼塔	Emmentaler (cheese)
埃格爾松	Egersund (city in Norway)
埃森	Essen, city in the Ruhr 魯爾區|鲁尔区[Lu3 er3 Qu1], Germany
埃森哲	Accenture (company)
埃森納赫	Eisenach (German city)
埃涅阿斯	Aeneas, hero of Virgil's Aeneid
埃涅阿斯紀	Virgil's Aeneid (epic about the foundation of Rome)
埃爾南德斯	Hernández (name)
埃爾多安	Recep Tayyip Erdoğan (1954–), Turkish politician, prime minister 2003–2014, president 2014–
埃爾帕索	El Paso, Texas
埃爾朗根	Erlangen (town in Bavaria)
埃爾朗根綱領	Felix Klein's Erlangen program (1872) on geometry and group theory
埃爾福特	Erfurt (German city)
埃爾維斯·普雷斯利	Elvis Presley (1935-1977), US pop singer and film star
埃爾金	James Bruce, 8th Earl of Elgin (1811-1863), British High Commissioner to China who ordered the looting and destruction of the Old Winter Palace Yuanmingyuan 圓明園|圆明园 in 1860
埃爾金大理石	the Elgin Marbles, the Parthenon marbles stolen in 1801-1810 by Thomas Bruce, 7th Earl of Elgin
埃特納火山	Mt Etna, volcano in Italy
埃琳娜	Elena (name)
埃米	angstrom (Å)
埃米爾	(loanword) emir; amir
埃菲爾鐵塔	Eiffel Tower
埃蕾	centaury herb with flowers (TCM); Herba Centaurii altaici cum flore
埃迪卡拉	Ediacaran (c. 635-542 million years ago), late phase of pre-Cambrian geological era
埃迪卡拉紀	Ediacaran period (c. 635-542 million years ago), late phase of pre-Cambrian geological era
埃里溫	Yerevan, capital of Armenia 亞美尼亞|亚美尼亚[Ya4 mei3 ni2 ya4]
埄	landmark used during the Song Dynasty (960-1279 AD)
埆	(of land) barren; stony
埇	raised path
埇橋區	Yongqiao, a district of Suzhou City 宿州市[Su4 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
埋	used in 埋怨[man2 yuan4]
埋伏	to ambush; to lie in wait for; to lie low
埋名	to conceal one's identity; to live incognito
埋單	to pay the bill (in a restaurant etc) (loanword from Cantonese)
埋天怨地	lit. to blame the heavens and reproach the earth
埋孔	(electronics) buried via
埋怨	to complain; to grumble (about); to reproach
埋汰	(dialect) dirty; to mock sb
埋沒	to engulf; to bury; to overlook
埋線	sunken cord (used in bookbinding)
埋葬	to bury
埋藏	to bury; to hide by burying; hidden
埋設	to install (water pipes, landmines etc) underground
埋頭	to immerse oneself in; engrossed in sth
埋頭苦幹	to bury oneself in work (idiom); to be engrossed in work
埋首	to immerse oneself in (one's work, studies etc)
埋點	(web analytics) event tracking; event
埌	wasteland; wild
城	city walls; city; town
城中區	Chengzhong, a district of Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
城中村	village within a city; shantytown; ghetto
城北區	Chengbei, a district of Xining City 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4], Qinghai
城區	Cheng District or Chengqu, a district of Shanwei City 汕尾市[Shan4 wei3 Shi4], Guangdong
城口縣	Chengkou, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
城固縣	Chenggu, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
城址	townsite
城垣	city wall
城域網	metropolitan area network
城堡	castle; rook (chess piece)
城外	outside of a city
城子河區	Chengzihe, a district of Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
城巴佬	(slang) (jocular) "city bumpkin", city person lacking basic rural or natural-world knowledge (play on 鄉巴佬|乡巴佬[xiang1 ba5 lao3])
城市	city; town
城市依賴症	"urban dependence disease" (sufferers are unwilling to give up city comforts and return to the countryside)
城市化	urbanization
城市管理行政執法局	City Urban Administrative and Law Enforcement Bureau (PRC)
城市規劃	town planning
城市運動會	National Intercity Games, Chinese athletics competition, organized every four years since 1988
城府	subtle; shrewd; sophisticated
城廂區	Chengxiang, a district of Putian City 莆田市[Pu2 tian2 Shi4], Fujian
城東區	Chengdong, a district of Xining City 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4], Qinghai
城根	sections of a city close to the city wall
城樓	city gate tower
城步苗族自治縣	Chengbu Miao Autonomous County, in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
城池	city
城牆	city wall
城管	local government bylaw enforcement officer
城裡人	city dweller; townspeople
城西區	Chengxi, a district of Xining City 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4], Qinghai
城運會	abbr. for 城市運動會|城市运动会[Cheng2 shi4 Yun4 dong4 hui4]
城邑	(literary) towns; cities
城邦	a city state (Greek polis)
城郊	suburbs; outskirts of a city
城郭	a city wall
城鄉	city and countryside
城鎮	town; cities and towns
城鎮化	urbanization
城鎮化水平	urbanization level (of a city or town)
城鐵	rapid transit system; urban railway
城門	city gate
城門失火，殃及池魚	a fire in the city gates is also a calamity for the fish in the moat (idiom); the bystander will also suffer
城闕	watchtower on either side of a city gate; (literary) city
城關	area outside a city gate
城關區	Chengguan, a district of Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
城防	city defense
城陽區	Chengyang, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
城隍	Shing Wong (deity in Chinese mythology)
埏	to mix water with clay
埒	(literary) equal; enclosure; dike
埔	used in place names
埕	earthen jar
埗	wharf; dock; jetty
埝	earth embankment used to hold back or retain water
域	field; region; area
域名	(computing) domain name
域名搶註	cybersquatting; domain squatting
域名服務器	domain name server
域名編碼	Punycode (encoding for internationalized domain names) (abbr. for 國際化域名編碼|国际化域名编码[Guo2 ji4 hua4 Yu4 ming2 Bian1 ma3])
域名註冊	domain name registration
域外	outside the country; abroad; foreign
埠	(bound form) wharf; pier; port town
埠頭	wharf; pier
埡	(dialect) strip of land between hills; used in place names
埡口	(dialect) narrow mountain pass
埤	low wall
埧	diked pond
埫	flat land; (used in place names)
埭	dam
埯	hole in the ground to plant seeds in; to make a hole for seeds
埲	used in 塕埲[weng3 beng3]; (Cantonese) classifier for walls
埳	pit; hole
埴	soil with large clay content
埵	solid earth
埶	skill; art
執	to execute (a plan); to grasp
執事	to perform one's job; attendant; job
執勤	to be on duty (of a security guard etc)
執委	executive committee member (abbr. for 執行委員|执行委员[zhi2 xing2 wei3 yuan2])
執委會	executive committee (abbr. for 執行委員會|执行委员会[zhi2 xing2 wei3 yuan2 hui4])
執導	to direct (a film, play etc)
執念	obsession (CL:股[gu3])
執意	to be determined to; to insist on
執拗	stubborn; willful; pigheaded; Taiwan pr. [zhi2ao4]
執拾	to tidy up (dialect)
執掌	to wield (power etc)
執政	to hold power; in office
執政官	consul (of the Roman Republic); magistrate (chief administrator)
執政者	ruler
執政能力	governing capacity
執政黨	ruling party; the party in power
執教	to teach; to be a teacher; to train
執業	to work in a profession (e.g. doctor, lawyer); practitioner
執法	to enforce a law; law enforcement
執法如山	to maintain the law as firm as a mountain (idiom); to enforce the law strictly
執照	license; permit
執牛耳	to be the acknowledged leader (from the custom of a prince holding a plate on which lay the severed ears of a sacrificial bull at an alliance ceremony)
執筆	to write; to do the actual writing
執紼	to attend a funeral
執著	dedicated; devoted; persistent; to persist in; to cling to
執行	to implement; to carry out; to execute
執行人	executioner (hangman); business executor
執行力	ability to get things done
執行緒	(Tw) (computing) thread
執行長	(Tw) chief executive
執迷	to be obsessive; to persist obstinately
執迷不悟	to obstinately persist in going about things the wrong way (idiom)
執金吾	(Han dynasty) official in command of an army responsible for maintaining law and order in the capital
執飛	(of an airline) to run a flight
埸	border
培	to bank up with earth; to cultivate (lit. or fig.); to train (people)
培亞	Praia, capital of Cape Verde (Tw)
培修	to repair earthworks
培勒茲	Perez (name)
培土	to earth up
培林	(mechanical) bearing (loanword) (Tw)
培根	(loanword) bacon
培植	to cultivate; to train; cultivation
培育	to train; to breed
培訓	to cultivate; to train; to groom
培訓班	training class
培養	to cultivate; to breed; to foster
培養基	culture medium
培養液	culture fluid (in biological lab.)
培養皿	Petri dish
基	(bound form) base; foundation; (bound form) radical (chemistry)
基佬	(slang) gay guy
基加利	Kigali, capital of Rwanda
基友	(slang) very close same-sex friend; gay partner
基因	gene (loanword)
基因修改	genetic modification
基因圖譜	mapping of genome
基因型	genotype
基因學	genetics
基因工程	genetic engineering
基因座	(genetics) locus
基因庫	gene bank
基因技術	gene technology
基因改造	genetic modification; GM
基因治療	gene therapy
基因碼	genetic code
基因突變	genetic mutation
基因組	genome
基因體	genome (Tw)
基團	radical (chemistry)
基地	base (of operations, industrial, military, research etc)
基地恐怖組織	Al-Qaeda; same as 基地組織|基地组织
基地組織	Al-Qaeda
基址	foundation; footing; base
基坑	foundation groove; trench for building foundation
基多	Quito, capital of Ecuador
基奈	Kenai (Peninsula, Lake, Mountains), Alaska (Tw)
基孔肯雅熱	chikungunya fever
基尼係數	Gini coefficient (a measure of statistical dispersion)
基層	basic level; grassroots unit; basement layer
基岩	bedrock
基布茲	kibbutz
基希訥烏	Chişinău or Chisinau, capital of Moldova
基帶	(telecommunications, electronics) baseband
基床	foundation (of building); bed (e.g. bedrock); substrate
基底	plinth; base; substrate
基底動脈	basilar artery (central artery of the brain)
基底細胞癌	basal cell carcinoma
基座	underlay; foundation; pedestal
基建	capital construction; infrastructure development (abbr. for 基本建設|基本建设[ji1 ben3 jian4 she4])
基情	(slang) bromance; gay love
基拉韋厄	Kilauea, Hawaii, the world's most active volcano
基操	(slang) the norm; typical behavior; nothing out of the ordinary; just what you'd expect (often used ironically) (abbr. for 基本操作[ji1 ben3 cao1 zuo4])
基操勿6	(Internet slang) it's nothing, there's no need to compliment
基改	(Tw) genetically modified; GM (abbr. for 基因改造[ji1 yin1 gai3 zao4])
基數	cardinal number; (math.) radix; base
基數詞	cardinal numeral
基於	because of; on the basis of; in view of
基普	kip (Laotian currency)
基本	basic; fundamental; main
基本上	basically; on the whole
基本利率	base rate (e.g. interest rate set by central bank)
基本功	basic skills; fundamentals
基本原則	fundamental doctrine; guiding principle; raison d'être
基本原理	fundamental principle
基本單位	basic unit; fundamental building block
基本多文種平面	basic multilingual plane (BMP)
基本定理	fundamental theorem
基本概念	basic concept
基本法	basic law (constitutional document)
基本盤	(political party's) voter base; (musician's) fan base
基本粒子	elementary particle (particle physics)
基本詞彙	basic word
基本需要	basic necessity; fundamental need
基本面	basics; essentials; fundamentals; (finance) fundamentals
基本點	key point; crux; (finance) basis point
基材	substrate
基板	substrate
基桑加尼	Kisangani (city in the Democratic Republic of the Congo)
基業	foundation; base; family estate
基極	base electrode (in transistor)
基樁	foundation piles
基模	(psychology) schema
基民	fund investor; (coll.) gay person
基民黨	Christian democratic party
基波	fundamental (wave)
基測	Basic Competence Test for Junior High School Students (Tw), abbr. for 國民中學學生基本學力測驗|国民中学学生基本学力测验
基準	(surveying) datum; standard; criterion; benchmark
基爾	Kiel (German city)
基爾特	guild (loanword)
基牙	abutment tooth (dentistry)
基甸	Gideon (name, from Judges 6:11 onward); also written 吉迪恩
基盤	base; foundation; (Tw) (geology) bedrock
基督	Christ (abbr. for 基利斯督[Ji1 li4 si1 du1] or 基利士督[Ji1 li4 shi4 du1])
基督城	Christchurch (New Zealand city)
基督徒	Christian
基督教	Christianity
基督教徒	a Christian
基督教民主聯盟	Christian Democratic Union (German political party)
基督教派	Christian denomination
基督教科學派	Christian Science
基督新教	Protestantism
基督聖體節	Corpus Christi (Catholic festival on second Thursday after Whit Sunday)
基石	foundation stone; cornerstone; (fig.) basis; foundation
基礎	base; foundation; basis; basic; fundamental
基礎問題	basic issue; fundamental question
基礎建設	(Tw) infrastructure
基礎教育	elementary education
基礎病	underlying medical condition
基礎結構	underlying infrastructure (of a system, organization etc)
基礎設施	infrastructure
基礎設施即服務	(computing) infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
基礎課	basic course; core curriculum
基礎速率	basic rate (as in ISDN)
基站	base station
基網	base net (in geodetic survey)
基線	baseline (surveying, budgeting, typography etc)
基羅米突	kilometer (old) (loanword)
基肥	base fertilizer
基腳	footing; pedestal
基臺	(dental implant) abutment
基西紐	Chișinău (aka Kishinev), capital of Moldova (Tw)
基調	main key (of a musical composition); keynote (speech)
基諧波	fundamental frequency; base harmonic
基諾	Jino ethnic group
基諾族	Jino ethnic group
基質	base solvent (of chemical compound)
基質膜	basal plasma membrane
基輔	Kyiv or Kiev, capital of Ukraine
基輔羅斯	Kievan Rus', East Slavic state that reached its peak in the early to mid-11th century
基辛格	Henry Kissinger (1923–2023), US academic and politician, Secretary of State 1973–1977
基里巴斯	Kiribati
基里巴斯共和國	Kiribati
基金	fund
基金會	foundation (institution supported by an endowment)
基隆	Chilung or Keelung, city and major port in north Taiwan
基隆市	Chilung or Keelung, city and major port in north Taiwan
基面	ground plane (in perspective drawing)
基音	fundamental tone
基頻	fundamental frequency
基體	base body; matrix; substrate
基點	base; center; basis; point of departure; starting point
埼	headland
埼玉	Saitama (prefecture and city in Japan)
埽	dike
堀	cave; hole
堂	(main) hall; large room for a specific purpose
堂倌	(old) waiter; attendant
堂兄	older male patrilineal cousin
堂兄弟	father's brother's sons; paternal male cousin
堂區	parish; civil parish
堂吉訶德	Don Quixote
堂哥	older male patrilineal cousin
堂堂	grand; magnificent; stately
堂堂正正	displaying strength and discipline; impressive; upright and frank
堂妹	younger female patrilineal cousin
堂妹夫	husband of younger female cousin via male line
堂姊	older female patrilineal cousin
堂姊妹	father's brother's daughters; paternal female cousin
堂姐	older female patrilineal cousin
堂姐夫	husband of older female cousin via male line
堂姪	nephew by the male line
堂嫂	wife of older male cousin via male line
堂屋	central room of a traditional Chinese house
堂廡	side room of a hall
堂弟	younger male patrilineal cousin
堂弟妹	wife of younger male cousin via male line
堂弟媳	wife of younger male cousin via male line
堂房	remote relatives (with the same family name)
堂皇	imposing; grand
堂而皇之	overt; to make no secret (of one's presence); grandiose
堂食	to eat in (at the restaurant) (contrasted with 外帶|外带[wai4 dai4])
堃	surname Kun
堄	parapet
堅	strong; solid; firm
堅不可摧	(idiom) invulnerable; indestructible; impregnable
堅信	to believe firmly; without any doubt
堅信禮	confirmation (Christian ceremony)
堅冰	ice; (fig.) frosty relationship
堅固	firm; firmly; hard
堅固性	firmness
堅執	to persist; to continue upholding; to persevere
堅壁	to cache; to hide supplies (from the enemy)
堅壁清野	to fortify defenses and raze the fields (idiom); to leave nothing for the invader
堅如磐石	solid as a boulder (idiom); absolutely secure
堅守	to hold fast to; to stick to
堅定	firm; steady; staunch
堅定不移	unswerving; unflinching
堅定性	firmness; steadfastness
堅實	firm and substantial; solid
堅尼係數	(HK) see 基尼係數|基尼系数[Ji1 ni2 xi4 shu4]
堅強	staunch; strong
堅強不屈	staunch and unyielding (idiom); steadfast
堅忍	persevering; tenacious
堅忍不拔	fortitude
堅戈	tenge (Kazakhstan currency) (loanword)
堅持	to persevere with; to persist in; to insist on
堅持下去	to press on
堅持不懈	(idiom) to persevere unremittingly; to keep going until the end
堅持不渝	to stick to sth without change (idiom); to persevere
堅振	confirmation (Christian ceremony)
堅振禮	confirmation (Christian ceremony)
堅挺	firm and upright; strong (of currency)
堅明	to consolidate and clarify
堅果	nut
堅毅	firm and persistent; unswerving determination
堅決	firm; resolute; determined
堅牢	strong; firm
堅硬	hard; solid
堅稱	to claim; to insist
堅緻	durable and finely crafted
堅若磐石	rock-solid
堅苦卓絕	persisting despite trials and tribulations (idiom); conspicuous determination
堅貞	firm; unswerving; loyal to the end
堅貞不屈	faithful and unchanging (idiom); steadfast
堅貞不渝	unyielding integrity (idiom); unwavering
堅韌	tough and durable; tenacious
堅韌不拔	firm and indomitable (idiom); tenacious and unyielding
堆	to pile up; to heap up; a mass
堆堆帽	slouchy beanie
堆壘	to pile up; accumulative
堆壘數論	additive number theory (math.)
堆放	to pile up; to stack
堆案盈几	lit. piles of work and papers (idiom); fig. accumulated backlog of work
堆棧	stack (computing); storehouse; warehouse
堆滿	to pile up
堆疊	to pile up; to put layer upon layer; (Tw) (computing) stack
堆砌	lit. to pile up (bricks); to pack
堆積	to pile up; to heap; accumulation
堆積如山	to pile up like a mountain (idiom); a mountain of (paperwork etc)
堆積木	to play with stacking blocks
堆肥	compost; to compost
堆芯	reactor core
堆金積玉	lit. pile up gold and jade; very rich
堆高機	forklift
堆高車	high-lift pallet truck; pallet stacker
堆龍德慶區	Doilungdêqên, a district of Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
堇	clay; violet (plant)
堇色	violet (color)
堇菜	violet (botany)
堈	earthen jug, crock, cistern
堉	fertile soil
堊	to whitewash; to plaster
堋	target in archery
堌	place name
堍	side of bridge
堎	mound; tomb
堐	(used in place names); Taiwan pr. [ai2]
堖	small hill; used in geographic names
堙	bury; mound; to dam
堝	crucible
堞	battlements
堠	mounds for beacons
堡	(bound form) fortress; stronghold
堡壘	fort
堡壘機	(computing) bastion host; jump server
堡子	village or town surrounded by earthen walls; village
堡寨	fort; fortress
堡礁	barrier reef
堤	dike; Taiwan pr. [ti2]
堤壩	dam; dike
堤岸	embankment; bank; levee
堤防	dike; embankment; levee
堧	adjoin
堨	dam; to stop; check
堪	(bound form) may; can; (bound form) to endure; to bear
堪培拉	Canberra, capital of Australia
堪察加	Kamchatka (peninsula in far eastern Russia)
堪察加半島	Kamchatka Peninsula, far-eastern Russia
堪察加柳鶯	(bird species of China) Kamchatka leaf warbler (Phylloscopus examinandus)
堪憂	worrying; bleak
堪比	to be comparable to
堪稱	can be rated as; can be said to be
堪薩斯	Kansas, US state
堪虞	worrisome; precarious; to be at risk
堪輿	geomancy
堪達罕	(dialect) moose (loanword via Manchu)
堭	a dry moat outside a city wall; a dry ditch
堮	a boundary; a border
堯	surname Yao
堯都區	Yaodu, a district of Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
堰	weir
堰塞湖	barrier lake; landslide dam; dammed lake
堰蜓座	Chamaeleon (constellation)
報	to report; to inform; to announce; to respond; to reply
報上	in the newspaper
報亭	kiosk; newsstand
報人	journalist (esp. newspaper journalist)
報仇	to take revenge; to avenge
報仇雪恥	to take revenge and erase humiliation (idiom)
報仇雪恨	to take revenge and wipe out a grudge (idiom)
報以	to give in return
報信	to notify; to inform
報備	to report a proposed activity to an authority (to obtain approval or register one's intentions)
報價	to quote a price; quoted price; quote
報價單	quotation; price list; written estimate of price
報償	to repay; to recompense
報分	call the score
報刊	newspapers and periodicals; the press
報刊亭	newsstand
報刊攤	newsstand
報到	to report for duty; to check in; to register
報功	to report a heroic deed; to mention sb in dispatches
報務員	telegraph operator; radio operator
報名	to sign up; to enter one's name; to apply
報名表	application form; registration form
報名費	registration fee
報告	to inform; to report; to make known
報告員	spokesperson; announcer
報告文學	reportage
報告書	written report
報告會	public lecture (with guest speakers etc)
報喜	to announce good news; to report success
報喜不報憂	to report only the good news, not the bad news
報喪	to announce sb's demise
報單	a tax declaration form; a tax return
報國	to dedicate oneself to the service of one's country
報失	report the loss to the authorities concerned
報子	bearer of good news (esp. announcing success in imperial examinations)
報官	(old) to report sth to the authorities
報審	to report for judgment; to submit for approval
報導	to report (in the media); (news) report
報帖	to announce good news in red letters
報幕	announce the items on a (theatrical) program
報廢	to scrap; to dispose of (sth worn-out or damaged)
報復	to make reprisals; to retaliate; revenge; retaliation
報復心	vindictiveness
報復性	retaliatory
報德	to repay debts of gratitude; to repay kindness
報怨	to pay back a score; to get revenge; to requite
報恩	to pay a debt of gratitude; to repay a kindness
報憂	to report bad news; to announce failure, shortcoming or disaster
報應	(Buddhism) divine retribution; karma
報應不爽	divine retribution is unfailing (idiom)
報戶口	to apply for residence; to register a birth
報批	to report for criticism; to submit for approval to higher authority
報捷	report a success; announce a victory
報摘	news digest
報攤	newsstand
報收	(of a stock on the stock market) to close at (a certain price)
報效	render service to repay kindness
報數	number off! (command in military drill); count off!
報料	to provide a news tip (to the media); a news tip
報料人	informant; news source
報春花	primrose (Primula malacoides)
報時	to give the correct time
報曉	to herald the break of day
報本反始	ensure that you pay debts of gratitude (idiom)
報案	to report a case to the authorities
報條	report of success from a candidate to the imperial examination (old)
報業	newspaper industry
報檢	to submit goods for inspection, quarantine or certification
報毒	(of antivirus software) to report a virus
報班	to sign up for a class
報界	the press; journalistic circles; the journalists
報盤	offer; to make an offer (commerce)
報社	newspaper (i.e. a company)
報禁	restrictions on the publication of newspapers; press restrictions
報稅	to file an income tax return; to declare dutiable goods (at customs)
報稅單	to declare to customs or to the taxman
報稅表	a tax return; a tax declaration form
報窩	to brood; to hatch
報章	newspapers
報童	paperboy
報端	in the newspaper(s)
報答	to repay; to requite
報系	newspaper chain; syndicate
報紙	newspaper; newsprint
報紙報導	newspaper report
報考	to enter oneself for an examination
報表	forms for reporting statistics; report forms
報話機	walkie-talkie; portable radio transmitter
報請	to report, requesting approval; written request for instructions
報警	to sound an alarm; to report sth to the police
報警器	alarm (e.g. burglar or fire alarm); warning device
報賬	to report expenses; to submit accounts
報載	newspaper report
報道	to report (news); report
報道攝影師	photojournalist
報酬	reward; remuneration
報銷	to submit an expense account; to apply for reimbursement; to write off
報錄	entry pass for imperial examination
報錄人	bearer of good news (esp. announcing success in imperial examinations)
報錯	(computing) to report an error
報關	to declare at customs
報關員	customs broker
報頭	masthead (of a newspaper etc); nameplate
報館	newspaper office
堲	hate
堳	low wall
場	large place used for a specific purpose; stage; scene (of a play)
場區	(sports) section of a court or playing field
場區應急	site area emergency (nuclear facility emergency classification)
場合	occasion; situation; context; setting; venue
場地	space; site; place
場地自行車	track bike; track cycling
場外應急	general emergency (or "off-site emergency") (nuclear facility emergency classification)
場子	(coll.) gathering place; public venue
場所	location; place
場景	scene; scenario; situation; setting
場次	the number of showings of a movie, play etc; screening; performance
場記	(filmmaking) script supervisor
場記板	(filmmaking) clapperboard
場論	field theory (physics)
場院	threshing floor
場面	scene; spectacle; occasion
場館	sporting venue; arena
堵	to block up (a road, pipe etc); to stop up (a hole)
堵住	to block up
堵塞	to clog up; blockage
堵塞費	traffic congestion fee
堵床上	(coll.) to catch an adulterous couple in the act
堵截	to intercept; to block the passage of; to interdict
堵擊	to intercept and attack (military)
堵死	to block (a road); to plug (a hole); to stop up
堵車	traffic jam; (of traffic) to get congested
堼	(used in place names); also pr. [feng1]
堽	mound
塂	(dialect) hill
塃	(dialect) newly-mined ore
塄	elevated bank around a field
塅	large area of flat terrain (used in place names)
塈	(literary) to plaster; (literary) to pick up; (literary) to rest
塊	lump; chunk; piece; classifier for pieces of cloth, cake, soap etc
塊兒八毛	one yuan or less; around 80 cents or one dollar
塊壘	gloom; a lump on the heart
塊根	root tuber; tuberous root
塊煤	lump coal
塊狀	lump
塊莖	(botany) a (stem) tuber
塊菌	truffle (edible root fungus)
塊規	a gauge block (block for accurate measurement)
塊頭	size; body size
塊體	a block; body of person or animal as a block
塋	(literary) a grave
塌	to collapse; to droop; to settle down
塌下	to collapse
塌房	(neologism c. 2020) (of a celebrity) to have one's reputation tank due to a scandal
塌方	to cave in; to collapse; to have a landslide
塌架	to collapse; to come to grief
塌棵菜	Brassica narinosa (broadbeaked mustard); Chinese flat cabbage
塌臺	to collapse
塌陷	to subside; to sink; to cave in
塍	raised path between fields
塏	dry terrain
塑	to model (a figure) in clay
塑像	to sculpt or mold a statue (by shaping a pliable material such as clay, plaster or wax, which may later be cast in metal – as distinct from carving in stone or wood)
塑化劑	plasticizer
塑封	to laminate (a photo etc); to seal sth in plastic; plastic wrapping
塑形	to shape; to mold; to sculpt; (fitness) to tone or contour the body
塑性	plasticity
塑料	plastic; plastics (general term for synthetic polymer materials)
塑料姐妹花	(neologism, 2017) (slang) a pair of women whose seemingly close friendship is actually shallow, insincere and subtly competitive; fake besties; frenemies
塑料普通話	(coll.) bad or awkward Mandarin (spoken with heavy accent, incorrect tones or other non-standard features)
塑料王	"king of plastics" (nickname for polytetrafluoroethylene, PTFE)
塑料袋	plastic bag
塑膜	plastic film (abbr. for 塑料薄膜[su4 liao4 bo2 mo2])
塑膠	synthetic resin; plastic cement; (Tw) plastic
塑膠炸藥	plastic explosive
塑膠爆炸物	plastic explosive
塑膠袋	(Tw) plastic bag
塑膠跑道	synthetic athletics track; tartan track
塑膠車	scooter (Tw)
塑身	body sculpting (weight loss and exercise)
塑造	to model; to mold
塑鋼	acetal resin; Delrin
塒	hen roost
塓	to plaster; whitewash (wall)
塔	pagoda (abbr. for 塔婆[ta3 po2], a loanword from Sanskrit stūpa); tower; pylon (CL:座[zuo4])
塔什干	Tashkent, capital of Uzbekistan
塔什庫爾干塔吉克自治縣	Tashkurgan Tajik Autonomous County, in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
塔克拉瑪干沙漠	Taklamakan Desert, Xinjiang
塔公	Lhagang grassland in Dartsendo county 康定縣|康定县[Kang1 ding4 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
塔公寺	Lhagang temple in Dartsendo county 康定縣|康定县[Kang1 ding4 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
塔列朗	Talleyrand (name)
塔利班	the Taliban, Islamist organization that emerged in the mid-1990s in Afghanistan
塔剎	Buddhist ornamentation decorating the upper story of a pagoda
塔加路族語	Tagalog (language)
塔勒	thaler or taler (currency of various Germanic countries in 15th-19th centuries) (loanword)
塔口	(loanword) taco
塔可	(loanword) taco
塔可餅	(loanword) taco
塔台	control tower
塔吉克	Tajik ethnic group; (Tw, HK) Tajikistan
塔吉克人	Tajik (person)
塔吉克斯坦	Tajikistan
塔吉克族	Tajik ethnic group
塔吊	tower crane
塔國	Tajikistan
塔城地區	Tarbaĝatay, prefecture in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
塔城市	Tacheng, a county-level city in Tacheng Prefecture 塔城地區|塔城地区[Ta3 cheng2 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
塔塔兒	Tartar (person)
塔塔兒人	Tartar (person)
塔塔爾	Tatar ethnic group
塔塔爾族	Tatar ethnic group
塔塔粉	cream of tartar; potassium bitartrate
塔塔醬	tartar sauce
塔夫綢	taffeta
塔尖	spire; peak of a pagoda
塔尾樹鵲	(bird species of China) ratchet-tailed treepie (Temnurus temnurus)
塔崩	tabun (loanword)
塔州	Tasmania (abbr. for 塔斯曼尼亞州|塔斯曼尼亚州)
塔希提	Tahiti, island of the Society Islands group in French Polynesia
塔帕斯	tapas, small Spanish snacks (loanword)
塔扇	tower fan
塔扎	Taza (a city in northern Morocco)
塔拉哈西	Tallahassee, capital of Florida
塔拉斯河	Talas River, originating in Kyrgyzstan and flowing west into Kazakhstan
塔拉瓦	Tarawa, capital of Kiribati
塔斯曼尼亞	Tasmania
塔斯曼尼亞島	Tasmania
塔斯社	TASS; Information Telegraph Agency of Russia
塔斯馬尼亞	Tasmania (Tw)
塔木德經	Talmud
塔林	Tallinn, capital of Estonia
塔樓	tower (of building)
塔河縣	Tahe, a county in Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
塔爾寺	Kumbum Monastery in Qinghai
塔瑪爾	Tamar (name)
塔瓦斯科	Tabasco (south Mexican state)
塔羅	(loanword) tarot
塔羅卡	tarot card
塔羅牌	tarot card
塔迪奇	Tadich (name)
塔那那利佛	Antananarivo, capital of Madagascar
塔里木	the Tarim Basin in southern Xinjiang
塔里木河	Tarim River of Xinjiang
塔里木盆地	Tarim Basin depression in southern Xinjiang
塔防	(gaming) tower defense
塔香	(cuisine) basil-flavored (abbr. for 九層塔香|九层塔香[jiu3 ceng2 ta3 xiang1])
塕	flying dust (dialect); dust
塕埲	dust storm
塗	to apply (paint etc); to smear; to daub
塗乙	to edit (a text); to revise (a manuscript)
塗去	to obliterate (some words, or part of a picture etc) using correction fluid, ink, paint etc
塗家	painter; artist
塗寫	to daub; to scribble (graffiti)
塗層	protective layer; coating
塗徑	path; road
塗抹	to paint; to smear; to apply (makeup etc)
塗抹醬	spread (for putting on bread etc)
塗改	to alter (text); to change by painting over
塗改液	correction fluid
塗敷	to smear; to daub; to plaster
塗料	paint
塗污	to smear; to deface
塗油	to grease; to oil; to baste (cookery)
塗油於	anoint
塗漿檯	pasting table (for wallpapering)
塗炭	extreme distress; in utter misery
塗片	smear (medical sample); microscope slide
塗白劑	a white paint applied to tree trunks to protect the trees from insect damage etc
塗脂抹粉	(idiom) to put on makeup; (idiom) to prettify
塗蓋	to coat; to mask; to plaster over
塗裝	painted ornament; livery (on airline or company vehicle)
塗飾	to decorate or finish by applying a coating; to coat (with paint, varnish etc)
塗鴉	graffiti; scrawl; poor calligraphy
塗鴨	graffiti; scrawl; poor calligraphy
塘	dyke; embankment; pool or pond
塘堰	irrigation pond or dam
塘沽	Tanggu former district of Tianjin, now part of Binhai subprovincial district 濱海新區|滨海新区[Bin1 hai3 xin1 qu1]
塘沽區	Tanggu former district of Tianjin, now part of Binhai subprovincial district 濱海新區|滨海新区[Bin1 hai3 xin1 qu1]
塘虱	catfish (family Clariidae)
塘角魚	Hong Kong catfish (Clarias fuscus)
塘鵝	pelican (Morus bassanus); gannet; booby
塙	truly
塚	burial mound (variant of 冢[zhong3])
塚中枯骨	dried bones in burial mound (idiom); dead and buried
塝	the edge; border of a field
塞	to plug; to stop up; to stuff in; (bound form) a stopper; a cork
塞內加爾	Senegal
塞勒姆	Salem, capital of Oregon; Salem, city in Massachusetts
塞北	(old) territories north of the Great Wall
塞哥維亞	Segovia (city in Spain)
塞外	(old) territories beyond the Great Wall
塞子	cork; plug
塞尺	feeler gauge
塞巴斯蒂安	(name) Sebastian
塞席爾	(Tw) the Seychelles
塞拉利昂	Sierra Leone
塞拉耶佛	(Tw) Sarajevo, capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina
塞擦音	affricate (phonetics)
塞斯納	Cessna (American aircraft manufacturer)
塞族	Serb ethnic group (abbr. for 塞爾維亞族|塞尔维亚族[Sai4 er3 wei2 ya4 zu2])
塞浦路斯	Cyprus
塞淵	honest and far-seeing
塞滿	to stuff full; to cram in; packed tight
塞爾特	Celtic
塞爾特語	Celtic language
塞爾維亞	Serbia; Taiwan pr. [Se4er3wei2ya4]
塞爾維亞克羅地亞語	Serbo-Croatian (language)
塞爾維亞和黑山	Serbia and Montenegro (a country that existed 2003–2006)
塞爾維亞語	Serbian (language)
塞爾達	Zelda (in Legend of Zelda video game)
塞牙	to get food stuck between one's teeth
塞特犬	setter (dog breed)
塞瓦斯托波爾	Sevastopol, port city on the Crimean Peninsula
塞納河	Seine
塞給	to slip sb sth; to press sb to accept sth; to insert surreptitiously
塞維利亞	Seville, city in Andalusia, Spain
塞繆爾	(name) Samuel
塞繆爾·約翰遜	Samuel Johnson (1709–1784) or Dr Johnson, English writer and lexicographer
塞翁失馬	lit. the old man lost his horse, but it all turned out for the best (idiom)
塞翁失馬安知非福	the old man lost his mare, but it all turned out for the best (idiom); fig. a blessing in disguise
塞翁失馬焉知非福	the old man lost his mare, but it all turned out for the best (idiom); fig. a blessing in disguise
塞耳	to block one's ears (not wishing to hear)
塞舌爾	the Seychelles
塞舌爾群島	the Seychelles
塞萬提斯	Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra (1547–1616), Spanish novelist, poet and playwright, author of Don Quixote 堂吉訶德|堂吉诃德[Tang2 ji2 he1 de2]
塞語	Serbian language; Saka language
塞責	to carry out one's duties perfunctorily; to fulfill one's responsibility
塞車	traffic jam
塞韋里諾	(name) Severino
塞音	(linguistics) plosive; stop
塢	(bound form) low area within a surrounding barrier
塢堡	small fortress; fortified compound
塢壁	small fortress; fortified compound
塢站	docking station
塤	ocarina
塥	dry clay lump
填	to fill or stuff; (of a form etc) to fill in
填充	to fill up; to stuff; to fill in a blank space
填充劑	bulking agent
填充物	filler; filling; stuffing
填充題	fill-in-the-blank question
填地	landfill
填報	to fill in and submit (a form)
填堵	to stuff; to cram into
填塞	to fill up; to cram; to stuff
填塞物	stuffing; filling material
填字遊戲	crossword
填密	packing; packaging
填寫	to fill in a form
填房	second wife (of a widower)
填料	packing material
填海	land reclamation
填滿	to cram
填空	to fill a job vacancy
填表	to fill out a form; to complete a form
填補	to fill a gap; to fill in a blank (on a form)
填詞	to compose a poem (to a given tune)
填飽	to feed to the full; to cram
填鴨	to force-feed ducks; (cooking) stuffed duck
填鴨式	force feeding (as a teaching method)
塬	plateau, esp. Loess Plateau of northwest China 黃土高原|黄土高原[Huang2 tu3 Gao1 yuan2]
塬地	fertile arable soil of loess plateau
塭	used in 魚塭|鱼塭[yu2 wen1]; used in place names
塱	raised bank; mud wall
塵	dust; dirt; earth
塵世	(religion) this mortal life; the mundane world
塵俗	mundane world
塵囂	hubbub; hustle and bustle
塵土	dust
塵埃	dust
塵埃落定	lit. the dust has settled (idiom); fig. to get sorted out
塵封	covered in dust; dusty; lying unused for a long time
塵暴	dust devil
塵肺	pneumoconiosis
塵蟎	dust mite
塵雲	dust cloud
塵霧	cloud of dust; smog
塹	(bound form) moat; chasm
塹壕	trench; entrenchment
塹壕戰	trench warfare
塽	(literary) elevated sunlit ground
塾	private school
塿	small mound
墀	courtyard
墁	to plaster
境	border; place; condition
境內	within the borders; internal (to a country, province, city etc)
境內外	within and without the borders; domestic and foreign; home and abroad
境地	circumstances
境域	territory; domain; realm; state; condition; situation; circumstances
境外	outside (a country's) borders
境況	circumstances
境由心生	our mindset frames how we view the world
境界	boundary; state; realm
境遇	circumstance
墅	villa
墈	cliff
墉	fortified wall; city wall
墉垣	city wall
墊	pad; cushion; mat
墊上	to pay for sb
墊付	to pay sb else's expense with the expectation of being reimbursed by that person later
墊圈	to spread litter in a cowshed, pigsty etc
墊子	cushion; mat; pad
墊平	to level (surfaces)
墊底	to put sth on the bottom
墊底費	deductible (the part of an insurance claim paid by the insured)
墊支	to advance funds
墊料	packing material; lagging; litter
墊檔	to fill a blank space
墊款	advance (of funds)
墊江縣	Dianjiang, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
墊片	spacer; shim
墊肩	shoulder pad
墊背	to serve as a sacrificial victim; to suffer for sb else; scapegoat
墊腳	litter (animal bedding)
墊腳石	stepping stone; fig. person used to advance one's career
墊被	mattress
墊補	(coll.) to cover a shortfall by using funds intended for another purpose or by borrowing some money
墊褥	cotton-padded mattress
墊高	a support; to raise; to bolster
墐	bury; plaster with mud
墒	plowed earth; soil moisture; furrow
墒土	moist, newly-tilled soil
墒情	the state of moisture in the soil (and whether it can support a crop)
墓	grave; tomb; mausoleum
墓主	occupant of tomb; person buried
墓園	cemetery; graveyard
墓地	cemetery; graveyard
墓坑	tomb pit
墓場	graveyard
墓塔	funerary pagoda
墓石	tombstone; gravestone
墓碑	gravestone; tombstone
墓穴	tomb; grave
墓窖	catacomb
墓葬	(archeology) grave; tomb
墓葬區	burial area
墓葬群	burial complex (archaeology)
墓誌	inscribed stone tablet placed in a tomb; memorial inscription on such a tablet
墓誌銘	epitaph
墓道	path leading to a grave; tomb passage
墘	(Minnan dialect) beside; near; (used in place names)
墜	to fall; to drop; to weigh down
墜亡	to fall to one's death
墜入	to drop into; to fall into
墜入情網	to fall in love
墜入愛河	to fall in love
墜子	weight; pendant; same as 墜胡|坠胡[zhui4 hu2]
墜樓	to fall off or jump off a building
墜機	airplane crash
墜毀	(of an airplane etc) to fall to the ground and crash
墜海	to fall into the ocean; to crash into the ocean
墜琴	same as 墜胡|坠胡[zhui4 hu2]
墜胎	to have an abortion; abortion
墜胡	two-stringed bowed instrument; also called 墜琴|坠琴[zhui4 qin2]
墜落	to fall; to drop
墜飾	pendant (jewelry)
墜馬	to fall off a horse
墝	stony soil
增	(bound form) to increase; to augment; to add to
增三和弦	augmented triad (musical chord)
增值	to appreciate (financially); to increase in value
增值稅	value-added tax (VAT)
增光	to add luster; to add glory
增兵	to reinforce; to increase troop numbers; reinforcements
增刊	additional publication; supplement (to a newspaper)
增刪	add and delete
增加	to raise; to increase
增加值	value added (accountancy)
增厚	to thicken
增城區	Zengcheng, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
增塑劑	plasticizer
增壓	to pressurize; to boost; to supercharge
增多	to increase; to grow in number
增大	to enlarge; to amplify; to magnify
增崗	to increase the number of jobs; to create jobs
增幅	growth rate; amplification
增年	to lengthen life
增廣	to widen
增強	to increase; to strengthen
增強現實	(computing) augmented reality; AR
增持	(of an investor) to increase one's holdings
增援	to reinforce
增收	to increase revenue; to increase income by (x amount)
增殖	growth; increase
增殖反應堆	breeder reactor
增添	to add; to increase
增減	to add or subtract; to increase or decrease; to go up or go down
增溫層	(meteorology) thermosphere
增生	(medicine) hyperplasia
增產	to increase production
增田	Masuda (Japanese surname)
增白劑	whitener; whitening agent
增益	to increase; (electronics) gain; (gaming) buff
增稠	to thicken
增稠劑	thickener
增色	to enrich; to enhance; to beautify
增補	to augment; to supplement; to add
增訂	to revise and enlarge (a book); to augment a purchase order
增訂本	revised and enlarged edition
增設	to add to existing facilities or services
增資	capital increase
增速	to speed up; to accelerate; (economics) growth rate
增進	to promote; to enhance; to further
增重粉	gainer (supplement)
增量	increment
增量參數	incremental parameter
增長	to grow; to increase
增長天	Virudhaka (one of the Heavenly Kings)
增長率	growth rate (esp. in economics)
增防	to reinforce defenses
增高	to heighten; to raise; to increase
墟	ruins; (literary) village; country fair
墟里	village
墠	level spot for sacrifices
墦	a grave
墨	surname Mo; abbr. for 墨西哥[Mo4 xi1 ge1], Mexico
墨丘利	Mercury (Roman god)
墨刑	corporal punishment consisting of carving and inking characters on the victim's forehead
墨匣	ink cartridge
墨子	Mozi (c. 470–391 BC), founder of the Mohist School 墨家[Mo4 jia1], which flourished during the Warring States period (475–220 BC)
墨守成規	hidebound by convention (idiom)
墨客	literary person
墨家	Mohist School of the Warring States Period (475-220 BC), founded by the philosopher 墨子[Mo4 zi3]
墨寶	treasured work of calligraphy or painting
墨巴本	(Tw) Mbabane, administrative capital of Eswatini
墨斗	carpenter's straight line marker (an inked cord stretched tight then lowered onto timber)
墨條	ink stick
墨水	ink
墨水屏	e-ink screen; e-paper display
墨水瓶架	inkstand
墨汁	prepared Chinese ink
墨江哈尼族自治縣	Mojiang Hani Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
墨漬	ink stain; ink blot; spot
墨灣	Gulf of Mexico
墨爾本	Melbourne, Australia
墨玉縣	Karakax, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
墨盒	ink cartridge
墨硯	ink slab; ink stone
墨竹工卡縣	Maizhokunggar, a county in Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
墨筆	writing brush
墨粉	toner (for a laser printer)
墨紙	blotting paper
墨索里尼	Benito Mussolini (1883-1945), Italian fascist dictator, "Il Duce", president 1922-1943
墨累	Murray (name)
墨累達令流域	Murray-Darling river system in the southeast of Australia
墨綠	dark green; forest green
墨綠色	dark or deep green
墨線	inked line
墨翟	original name of Mozi 墨子[Mo4 zi3]
墨者	Mohist; follower of Mohist school
墨脫縣	Mêdog, a county in Nyingchi City 林芝市[Lin2 zhi1 Shi4], Tibet
墨西哥	Mexico
墨西哥人	Mexican
墨西哥城	Mexico City, capital of Mexico
墨西哥捲餅	burrito; taco
墨西哥灣	Gulf of Mexico
墨西哥辣椒	jalapeño
墨西拿	Messina, Sicilian city
墨西拿海峽	Strait of Messina between Calabria and Sicily
墨角蘭	marjoram (Origanum majorana)
墨跡	ink marks; original calligraphy or painting of famous person
墨鏡	sunglasses
墨魚	cuttlefish
墩	block; gate pillar; pier
墩子	squat block (of stone, wood etc); ottoman; pouf
墩布	swab; mop
墮	to fall; to sink; (fig.) to degenerate
墮樓	to jump to one's death
墮胎	to induce an abortion; induced abortion
墮落	to degrade; to degenerate; to become depraved
墮雲霧中	(lit.) to become lost in a fog (idiom); (fig.) at a complete loss
墳	grave; tomb; embankment
墳丘	a tomb
墳包	grave mound
墳地	graveyard; cemetery
墳場	cemetery
墳塋	grave; tomb; graveyard
墳墓	grave; tomb
墳山	hill cemetery; graveyard; grave
墳穴	grave
墳頭	burial mound
墶	used in 圪墶|圪垯[ge1 da5]
墺	building-plot
墼	(bound form) unfired brick; (bound form) briquette (made of coal etc)
墾	to reclaim (land); to cultivate
墾丁	Kenting, a national park on the southern tip of Taiwan, popular as a tourist destination (abbr. for 墾丁國家公園|垦丁国家公园[Ken3 ding1 Guo2 jia1 Gong1 yuan2])
墾丁國家公園	Kenting National Park on the Hengchun Peninsula 恆春半島|恒春半岛[Heng2 chun1 Ban4 dao3], Pingtung county, south Taiwan
墾利區	Kenli, a district of Dongying City 東營市|东营市[Dong1 ying2 Shi4], Shandong
墾殖	to open up land for cultivation
墾耕	to bring under cultivation (scrubland, marshland etc)
墾荒	to open up land (for agriculture)
壁	wall; rampart
壁助	help; assistant
壁咚	(slang) to kabedon; to corner (sb in whom one has a romantic interest) against a wall (loanword from Japanese 壁ドン "kabedon")
壁報	wall newspaper
壁塞	wall plug; screw anchor
壁壘	rampart; barrier
壁壘一新	to have one's defenses in good order (idiom)
壁壘森嚴	closely guarded; strongly fortified; sharply divided
壁廂	lateral; side; to the side
壁掛	wall hanging
壁效應	wall effect
壁架	ledge
壁櫥	a built-in wardrobe or cupboard; closet
壁毯	tapestry (used as a wall hanging)
壁燈	wall lamp; bracket light
壁爐	fireplace
壁球	squash (sport)
壁畫	mural (painting); fresco
壁癌	persistent mold on the wall; efflorescence
壁立	(of cliffs etc) stand like a wall; rise steeply
壁立千仞	(idiom) (of a cliff, mountain etc) steep; lofty; imposing
壁紙	wallpaper
壁網球	jai alai (sports)
壁虎	gecko; house lizard
壁虱	tick; bedbug
壁龕	niche (in a wall)
壅	to obstruct; to stop up; to heap soil around the roots of a plant
壅蔽	(literary) to cover; to conceal; to hide from view
壆	(dialect) mounded row of soil (in which crops are planted)
壇	altar; platform; rostrum
壈	disappointed
壋	(dialect) earthen dyke in a river or rice paddy (for irrigation purposes)
壎	ancient porcelain wind-instrument
壑	gully; ravine; Taiwan pr. [huo4]
壑溝	ditch; narrow strip of water; moat
壑谷	low-lying humid terrain
壒	dust; mud
壓	used in 壓根兒|压根儿[ya4 gen1 r5]; used in 壓馬路|压马路[ya4 ma3 lu4]
壓低	to lower (one's voice)
壓住	to press down; to crush down; to restrain (anger)
壓倒	to overwhelm; to overpower; overwhelming
壓倒性	overwhelming
壓價	to depress prices
壓克力	(Tw) (loanword) acrylic
壓制	to suppress; to inhibit; to stifle
壓力	pressure
壓力容器	pressure vessel; autoclave
壓力山大	(jocular) to be under great pressure (a pun on 亞歷山大|亚历山大[Ya4 li4 shan1 da4])
壓力強度	pressure (as measured)
壓力計	pressure gauge; manometer; piezometer
壓力鍋	pressure cooker
壓垮	to cause sth to collapse under the weight; (fig.) to overwhelm
壓埋	to crush and bury
壓場	to hold the attention of an audience; to serve as the finale to a show
壓壞	to crush
壓實	to compress; to compact
壓強	pressure (physics)
壓扁	to squash; to crush flat
壓抑	to constrain or repress emotions; oppressive; stifling
壓擠	to squeeze out; to extrude
壓服	to compel sb to obey; to force into submission; to subjugate
壓板	vise jaw; press board (in a machine)
壓根	(mainly used in the negative) in the first place; absolutely; simply
壓榨	to press; to squeeze; to extract juice, oil etc by squeezing
壓歲錢	money given to children as a gift on Chinese New Year's Eve
壓死	to crush to death
壓死駱駝的最後一根稻草	the straw that broke the camel’s back (idiom); the final straw
壓痛	(medicine) tenderness; pain experienced when touched or palpated
壓碎	to crush to pieces
壓緊	to compress
壓線	pressure crease; fig. to toil for sb else's benefit
壓線鉗	crimping pliers; amp pliers
壓縮	to compress; compression
壓縮包	(computing) compressed archive file
壓縮器	compressor
壓縮機	compactor; compressor
壓縮比	compression ratio
壓腿	to do a leg stretch (esp. in flexibility training)
壓臺戲	last item on a show; grand finale
壓舌板	tongue depressor; spatula
壓艙石	ballast stone; (fig.) source of stability
壓花	to emboss; coining; knurling
壓蒜器	garlic press
壓路機	road roller
壓軸	final and most important item (on a program, schedule etc); grand finale; (attributive) final; climactic
壓軸好戲	main event; grand finale
壓軸戲	final and most important item on a program; grand finale
壓迫	to oppress; to repress; to constrict
壓陣	to bring up the rear; to provide support; to hold the lines
壓電	piezoelectricity (physics)
壓電體	piezo-electric
壓馬路	Taiwan pr. [ya1 ma3 lu4]
壔	column; cylinder
壕	moat; (military) trench
壕溝	trench; moat
壖	land on water edge or under wall
壘	rampart; base (in baseball); to build with stones, bricks etc
壘包	(baseball) base
壘固	Loi-kaw, capital of Kaya state, Myanmar
壘球	softball
壘砌	to build a structure out of layered bricks or stones
壙	tomb
壚	clay; shop
壝	mound; embankment; the earthen altar to the god of the soil
壞	bad; spoiled; broken
壞了	shoot!; gosh!; oh, no!
壞事	bad thing; misdeed; to ruin things
壞人	bad person; villain
壞分子	bad element; troublemaker
壞包兒	rascal; rogue; little devil (term of endearment)
壞家伙	bad guy; scoundrel; dirty bastard
壞掉	to get broken; to get damaged; to get ruined
壞東西	bastard; scoundrel; rogue
壞死	necrosis
壞水	evil tricks
壞疽	gangrene
壞種	bad kind; scoundrel
壞笑	to smirk; to grin wickedly; to snicker
壞脾氣	bad temper
壞腸子	evil person
壞處	harm; troubles
壞蛋	bad egg; scoundrel; bastard
壞血病	scurvy
壞話	disparaging remarks; unkind things said about sb
壞賬	bad debt
壞透	completely bad
壞運	bad luck; misfortune
壞鳥	sinister person; unsavory character; broken (not in working order)
壟	ridge between fields
壟斷	to monopolize
壟溝	furrow (agriculture)
壢	hole, pit
壤	(bound form) soil; earth
壤土	(agriculture) loam; (literary) land; territory
壤塘縣	Zamthang, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
壩	dam; dike; embankment
壪	col; gully
士	member of the senior ministerial class (old); scholar (old); bachelor
士丹利	Stanley (name)
士人	scholar
士兵	soldier
士力架	Snickers (candy bar)
士卒	soldier; private (army)
士多	(dialect) store (loanword)
士多啤梨	(HK) (loanword) strawberry
士大夫	scholar officials
士子	official; scholar (old)
士官	warrant officer; petty officer; noncommissioned officer (NCO)
士巴拿	(dialect) spanner (loanword)
士師記	Book of Judges
士敏土	cement (loanword) (old)
士族	land-owning class, esp. during Wei, Jin and North-South dynasties 魏晉南北朝|魏晋南北朝[Wei4 Jin4 Nan2 Bei3 Chao2]
士林	Shilin or Shihlin District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
士林區	Shilin or Shihlin District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
士氣	morale
士為知己者死，女為悅己者容	a true gentleman will sacrifice his life for a friend who understands him, as a woman makes herself beautiful for her sweetheart
士農工商	(idiom) "the four classes" of ancient China, i.e. scholars, farmers, artisans, and merchants
壬	ninth of the ten Heavenly Stems 十天干[shi2 tian1 gan1]; ninth in order
壬午	nineteenth year I7 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2002 or 2062
壬子	forty-ninth year I1 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1972 or 2032
壬寅	thirty-ninth year I3 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1962 or 2022
壬戌	fifty-ninth year I11 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1982 or 2042
壬申	ninth year I9 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1992 or 2052
壬辰	twenty-ninth year I5 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2012 or 2072
壬辰倭亂	Imjin war, Japanese invasion of Korea 1592-1598
壯	Zhuang ethnic group, the largest ethnic minority in China
壯丁	able-bodied man (capable of fighting in a war)
壯士	hero; fighter; brave strong guy
壯大	to strengthen; to build up; to grow strong and large
壯實	robust; sturdy
壯年	lit. robust years; prime of life; summer
壯志	great goal; magnificent aspiration
壯族	Zhuang ethnic group, the largest ethnic minority in China
壯烈	brave; heroic
壯碩	sturdy; thick and strong
壯美	magnificent
壯膽	to get one’s courage up; to embolden
壯舉	magnificent feat; impressive feat; heroic undertaking
壯觀	spectacular; magnificent sight
壯語	magnificent talk; exaggeration
壯起膽子	to proceed with sth even though scared; to put on a brave face
壯闊	grand; majestic; vast
壯陽	(TCM) to build up one's kidney yang; to boost male sex drive
壯麗	magnificence; magnificent; majestic
壴	(archaic) drum
壹	one (banker's anti-fraud numeral)
壺	pot; classifier for bottled liquid
壺鈴	kettlebell, girya
壺關縣	Huguan, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
壼	palace corridor; fig. women's quarters; women
壽	long life; old age; age
壽元	one's allotted lifespan
壽光市	Shouguang, a county-level city in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
壽司	sushi
壽命	life span; life expectancy; lifetime (of a machine)
壽命不長	one's days are numbered; not to have long to live (often fig.)
壽喜燒	sukiyaki
壽堂	mourning hall; a hall for a birthday celebration
壽寧縣	Shouning, a county in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
壽帶	(bird species of China) Amur paradise flycatcher (Terpsiphone incei)
壽數	predestined length of life
壽星	Canopus (brightest star in the constellation Carina 船底座[Chuan2 di3 zuo4]); Longevity Star
壽星公	God of Longevity
壽材	coffin
壽桃	(myth.) peaches of immortality, kept by Xi Wangmu
壽桃包	longevity peach bun; birthday peach bun
壽比南山	Live as long as the Zhongnan Mountains! (idiom); Long may you live!
壽王墳	Shouwangfen town, in Chengde 承德市[Cheng2 de2 shi4], Hebei
壽禮	birthday present (for an old person)
壽筵	birthday banquet
壽糕	birthday cake
壽終	to die of old age; to live to a ripe old age
壽終正寢	to die of old age; to die in one's bed at a ripe old age
壽縣	Shou County or Shouxian, a county in Huainan City 淮南市[Huai2 nan2 Shi4], Anhui
壽考	long life; life span
壽衣	burial clothes
壽誕	birthday (of an old person)
壽辰	birthday (of an old person)
壽限	lifetime; length of life
壽陽縣	Shouyang, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
壽險	life insurance (abbr. for 人壽保險|人寿保险[ren2 shou4 bao3 xian3])
壽麵	birthday noodles (for longevity)
夂	"walk slowly" component in Chinese characters
夆	to butt (as horned animals)
夌	to dawdle; the name of the father of the Emperor Yao
夏	the Xia or Hsia dynasty c. 2000 BC
夏代	Xia or Hsia dynasty c. 2000 BC
夏令	summer; summer weather
夏令時	daylight saving time
夏令營	summer camp
夏侯	two-character surname Xiahou
夏克提	Shakti (Hinduism)
夏利	Xiali, car brand by Tianjin FAW Xiali Motor Company
夏商周	Xia, Shang and Zhou, the earliest named Chinese dynasties
夏士蓮	Hazeline, Unilever range of skin care products
夏天	summer
夏奧會	the Summer Olympic Games; the Summer Olympics
夏威夷	Hawaii, US state
夏威夷島	Hawaiʻi, largest island of the Hawaiian archipelago
夏威夷果	macadamia nut
夏威夷火山國家公園	Hawaii Volcanoes National Park
夏威夷群島	Hawaiian Islands
夏娃	Eve, the first woman (transcription used in Protestant versions of the Bible) (from Hebrew Ḥawwāh, probably via Cantonese 夏娃 {Haa6waa1})
夏季	summer
夏州	old place name (up to Tang), in Hengshan county 橫山縣|横山县, Yulin, Shaanxi
夏延	Cheyenne, capital of Wyoming
夏敬渠	Xia Jingqu (1705-1787), Qing novelist, author of monumental novel 野叟曝言[Ye3 sou3 Pu4 yan2] Humble Words of a Rustic Elder
夏日	summertime
夏時制	daylight saving time
夏普	Sharp Corporation
夏曆	the traditional Chinese lunar calendar
夏朝	Xia Dynasty (2070-1600 BC)
夏正民	Justice Michael Hartmann (1944-), Hong Kong High Court judge
夏河縣	Xiahe, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
夏洛克	Shylock (in Shakespeare's Merchant of Venice); Sherlock (name)
夏洛特	Charlotte (name)
夏洛特·勃良特	Charlotte Brontë (1816-1855), English novelist, eldest of three Brontë sisters, author of Jane Eyre 簡·愛|简·爱[Jian3 · Ai4]
夏洛特敦	Charlottetown, capital of Prince Edward Island, Canada
夏洛特阿馬利亞	Charlotte Amalie, capital of the United States Virgin Islands (USVI)
夏津縣	Xiajin, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
夏爾巴人	Sherpa
夏王朝	Xia dynasty, unconfirmed but placed at c. 2070-c. 1600 BC
夏目漱石	Natsume Sōseki (1867-1916), one of the first modern Japanese novelists
夏縣	Xia County or Xiaxian, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
夏至	Xiazhi or Summer Solstice, 10th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 21st June-6th July
夏至點	the summer solstice
夏蟲不可以語冰	a summer insect cannot discuss ice (idiom)
夏衍	Xia Yan (1900-1995), Chinese writer, playwright, socialist critic and movie pioneer
夏裝	summer clothing; summer clothes
夏邑縣	Xiayi, a county in Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
夏黃公	Xia Huanggong also known as Huang Shigong 黃石公|黄石公[Huang2 Shi2 gong1] (dates of birth and death uncertain), Daoist hermit of the Qin Dynasty 秦代[Qin2 dai4] and purported author of “Three Strategies of Huang Shigong” 黃石公三略|黄石公三略[Huang2 Shi2 gong1 San1 lu:e4], one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1]
夒	a kind of gibbon (old variant of 猱[nao2])
夔	one-legged mountain demon of Chinese mythology
夔夔	awestruck and fearful
夔州	Kuizhou, ancient area of modern Fengjie County 奉節縣|奉节县[Feng4 jie2 Xian4], Chongqing
夕	(bound form) sunset; dusk; (bound form) evening; night
夕照	glow of the setting sun
夕發朝至	to depart in the evening and arrive the next morning
夕陽	sunset; the setting sun
夕陽產業	sunset industry; declining industry
夕陽西下	the sun sets in the west (idiom)
外	outside; in addition; foreign
外丹	Taoist external alchemy
外事	foreign affairs
外事處	Foreign Affairs Office (at a university); Foreign Affairs Department
外交	diplomacy; diplomatic; foreign affairs
外交事務	foreign affairs
外交大臣	Foreign Secretary
外交學院	China Foreign Affairs University, located in Beijing
外交官	diplomat
外交家	diplomat
外交庇護	diplomatic asylum
外交手腕	diplomatic skills
外交政策	foreign policy
外交特權	diplomatic immunity
外交豁免權	diplomatic immunity
外交部	Ministry of Foreign Affairs; foreign office; Dept. of State
外交部長	minister of foreign affairs
外交關係	foreign relations; diplomatic relations
外交關係理事會	Council on Foreign Relations (US policy think tank)
外交風波	diplomatic crisis
外人	outsider; foreigner; stranger
外企	foreign enterprise
外來	external; foreign; outside
外來人	foreigner
外來娃	children born to parents from rural areas who have migrated to urban areas
外來投資	foreign investment
外來物種	an introduced species
外來詞	loanword
外來語	loanword
外來貨	imported product
外侮	(literary) foreign aggression; external threat
外借	to lend (sth other than money); to borrow
外側	outer side
外側溝	lateral sulcus or Sylvian fissure (neuroanatomy)
外側裂	lateral sulcus or Sylvian fissure (neuroanatomy)
外傳	to tell others (a secret); to divulge to an outsider; to be rumored
外債	foreign debt; external debt
外傷	injury; wound; trauma
外僑	foreigner
外八字腳	splayed feet
外八字腿	bow legs; bandy legs
外公	(coll.) mother's father; maternal grandfather
外出	to go out; to go away (on a trip etc)
外出訪問	to make an official visit (often abroad)
外分泌	exocrine; external secretion (e.g. saliva)
外分泌腺	exocrine gland; gland producing external secretion (e.g. saliva)
外刊	foreign-published periodical
外剛內柔	soft on the inside despite one's hard shell
外力	external force; pressure from outside
外加	in addition; extra
外加劑	additive
外加附件	add-on (software); plug-in (software)
外務	foreign affairs
外務省	foreign ministry (e.g. of Japan or Korea)
外務部	Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Qing Dynasty
外勞	foreign worker (abbr. for 外籍勞工|外籍劳工[wai4 ji2 lao2 gong1])
外勤	work done in the field (rather than in the office or at the headquarters); fieldwork
外包	outsourcing
外匯	foreign (currency) exchange
外匯儲備	foreign-exchange reserves
外匯存底	foreign exchange reserves (Tw)
外協	outsourcing
外卡	(sports) wild card (loanword)
外向	extroverted (personality); (economics etc) export-oriented
外向型	export-oriented (economic model)
外商	foreign businessman; foreign enterprise; foreign company
外商獨資企業	wholly foreign-owned enterprise (WFOE) (form of legal entity in China)
外商直接投資	overseas foreign direct investment (OFDI)
外國	foreign country
外國人	foreigner
外國話	foreign languages
外國語	foreign language
外國資本	foreign capital
外圍	surrounding
外圓內方	lit. outside-flexible, inside-firm (idiom); fig. velvet glove
外在	external; extrinsic
外在超越	outer transcendence (perfection through the agency of God)
外地	parts of the country other than where one is
外地人	stranger; outsider
外型	external form
外場	outer area (of a place that has an inner area)
外場人	sophisticated, worldly person; man of the world
外太空	outer space
外套	outer garment; jacket; coat
外婆	(coll.) mother's mother; maternal grandmother
外媒	foreign news media (abbr. for 外國媒體|外国媒体[wai4 guo2 mei2 ti3])
外嫁	(of a woman) to marry a non-local or foreigner
外子	(polite) my husband
外孫	daughter's son; grandson; descendant via the female line
外孫女	daughter's daughter; granddaughter
外孫女兒	granddaughter (one's daughter's daughter)
外孫子	(coll.) daughter's son; grandson
外宣	(abbr. for 對外宣傳|对外宣传[dui4 wai4 xuan1 chuan2]) (one's own) international public relations efforts
外寬內忌	magnanimous on the outside, but hateful on the inside (idiom)
外展訓練	outdoor education program
外層	outer layer; outer shell
外層空間	outer space
外差	heterodyne (electronics)
外帶	take-out (fast food); (outer part of) tire; as well
外幣	foreign currency
外延	extension (semantics)
外強中乾	strong in appearance but weak in reality (idiom)
外形	figure; shape; external form
外徑	external diameter (including thickness of the wall)
外心	(of a married person) interest in a third person
外快	extra income
外患	foreign aggression
外戚	(historical) consort kin
外手	right-hand side (of a machine)
外掛	attached externally (e.g. fuel tank); plug-in; add-on
外掛程式	plug-in (software) (Tw)
外接圓	circumscribed circle (of a polygon)
外推	to extrapolate
外推法	extrapolation (math.); to extrapolate
外插	to extrapolate; extrapolation (math.)
外援	foreign aid; external aid; (sports) foreign player
外搭程式	add-on software (Tw)
外放	extroverted; outgoing
外教	foreign teacher (abbr. for 外國教師|外国教师); greenhorn; novice
外敷	to apply externally
外文	foreign language (written)
外文系	department of foreign languages; modern languages (college department)
外斜肌	external oblique muscle (sides of the chest)
外族	ethnic group other than one's own
外星	alien; extraterrestrial
外星人	space alien; extraterrestrial
外景	exterior scene; outdoor scene
外業	on-site operations (e.g. surveying)
外殼	envelope; outer shell; hull
外水	extra income
外泄	to leak (usually secret information)
外派	to send sb to work abroad or in a different location
外流	outflow; to flow out; to drain
外海	offshore; open sea
外源	exogenous
外源凝集素	(biochemistry) lectin
外溢	(of liquid) to spill out; to overflow; (of gas) to leak out
外滿洲	Outer Manchuria (the historical name for the part of Russia near northeastern China that was ceded to the Russian Empire in the mid-19th century)
外激素	pheromone
外灘	the Bund, a waterfront promenade in central Shanghai, running along the western bank of the Huangpu River
外照射	external irradiation
外燴	(Tw) catering
外爺	(dialect) maternal grandfather
外牆	facade; external wall
外環線	outer ring (road or rail line)
外甥	sister's son; wife's sibling's son
外甥女	sister's daughter; wife's sibling's daughter
外甥女婿	sister's daughter's husband
外甥媳婦	sister's son's wife
外用	external
外界	the outside world; external
外皮	outer skin; carapace
外相	Foreign Minister
外省	another province (relative to the local one)
外眥	(anatomy) lateral canthus; outer corner of the eye
外眼角	outer corner of the eye
外祖母	mother's mother; maternal grandmother
外祖父	maternal grandfather (i.e. mother's father)
外科	surgery (branch of medicine)
外科學	surgery
外科手術	surgery
外科醫生	surgeon
外稃	(botany) lemma
外積	(math.) cross product; exterior product; outer product
外管局	State Administration of Foreign Exchange (abbr. for 國家外匯管理局|国家外汇管理局[Guo2 jia1 Wai4 hui4 Guan3 li3 ju2])
外籍	foreign (i.e. of foreign nationality)
外籍勞工	foreign worker
外籍華人	overseas Chinese; persons of Chinese origin having foreign citizenship
外網	the Internet outside the GFW 防火長城|防火长城[Fang2 huo3 Chang2 cheng2]
外線	(military) line of troops encircling an enemy position
外置	external (i.e. not built-in 內置|内置[nei4 zhi4])
外耳	outer ear
外耳道	external auditory meatus
外胚層	ectoderm (cell lineage in embryology)
外舅	(literary) father-in-law; wife's father
外蒙	Outer Mongolia (abbr. for 外蒙古[Wai4 Meng3 gu3])
外蒙古	Outer Mongolia
外號	nickname
外行	layman; amateur
外衣	outer clothing; semblance; appearance
外表	external; outside; outward appearance
外袍	robe
外觀	outward appearance
外觀設計	look; external appearance; design
外設	peripherals
外語	foreign language
外貌	profile; appearance
外貌主義	lookism
外貌協會	the "good-looks club": people who attach great importance to a person's appearance (pun on 外貿協會|外贸协会 foreign trade association)
外貿	foreign trade
外貿協會	Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA), abbr. for 中華民國對外貿易發展協會|中华民国对外贸易发展协会
外資	foreign investment; foreign capital
外資企業	abbr. for 外商獨資企業|外商独资企业[wai4 shang1 du2 zi1 qi3 ye4]
外賓	foreign guest; international visitor
外賣	(of a restaurant) to provide a takeout or home delivery meal
外賣員	food delivery person
外質膜	external plasma membrane
外踝	lateral malleolus
外辦	foreign affairs office
外送	to send out; fast food delivered
外逃	to flee abroad; to run away; to desert
外遇	extramarital affair
外邊	outside; outer surface; abroad
外邦人	gentile
外部	the outside; (attributive) external; exterior; surface
外部連結	(Tw, HK) external link
外部鏈接	external link (on a website)
外郭城	outer city wall
外鄉	another part of the country; some other place
外鄉人	a stranger; out-of-towner
外野	(baseball) outfield
外野手	(baseball) outfielder
外銷	to export; to sell abroad
外錯角	(math.) alternate exterior angles
外鏈	(computing) external link (abbr. for 外部鏈接|外部链接[wai4 bu4 lian4 jie1])
外長	foreign minister; secretary of state; minister of foreign affairs
外間	outer room; the external world; outside
外院	outer courtyard
外陰	vulva
外電	reports from foreign news agencies
外需	external demand (demand for a country's goods and services from foreign markets)
外露	exposed; appearing on the outside
外面	outside (also pr. [wai4 mian5] for this sense); surface; exterior
外頭	outside; outdoors
外顯	externally manifested; visible; evident
外顯子	(genetics) an exon
外顯性	(genetics) penetrance
外顯率	(genetics) penetrance
外飛地	enclave (foreign land inside us); (Tw) exclave (our land outside us)
外食	to eat out
外食族	people who regularly eat out
外騖	to get involved in things which are not one's business
外骨骼	(zoology) exoskeleton
外高加索	Transcaucasia, aka the South Caucasus
夗	to turn over when asleep
夙	morning; early; long-held
夙世	previous life
夙夜	morning and night; always; at all times
夙夜匪懈	to work from morning to night (idiom)
夙嫌	old grudge; long-standing resentment
夙敵	old foe; long-standing enemy
夙日	at ordinary times
夙興夜寐	to rise early and sleep late (idiom); to work hard
夙諾	old promise; long-standing commitment
夙願	long-cherished wish
夙願以償	a long-cherished ambition is realized
夙願得償	to have a long-cherished wish realized
多	many; much; more; a lot of; too many; in excess
多一事不如少一事	it is better to avoid unnecessary trouble (idiom)
多久	(of time) how long?; (not) a long time
多了去了	(coll.) aplenty; millions of
多事	meddlesome; eventful
多事之秋	(idiom) troubled times; eventful period
多任務處理	multitasking (computing)
多伊爾	Doyle (name)
多佛	Dover
多佛爾	Dover
多個	many; multiple; multi- (faceted, ethnic etc)
多個朋友多條路	the more friends you have, the more options you have in life (idiom)
多倍體	polyploid (multiple chromosomes)
多倫多	Toronto, capital of Ontario, Canada
多倫縣	Duolun, a county in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
多值	multivalued (math.)
多值函數	multivalued function (math.)
多側面	many-sided
多元	poly-; multi-; multielement
多元不飽和脂肪酸	polyunsaturated fatty acid
多元化	diversification; pluralism; to diversify
多元宇宙	multiverse (cosmology)
多元性	diversity
多元文化主義	multiculturalism
多元論	pluralism, philosophical doctrine that the universe consists of different substances
多元酯	polyester
多利	Dolly (1996-2003), female sheep, first mammal to be cloned from an adult somatic cell
多力多滋	Doritos (brand of tortilla chips)
多功能	multifunctional; multifunction
多功能表	multifunction meter (e.g. for gas and electricity supply)
多助	receiving much help (from outside); well supported
多動症	(coll.) attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
多勞多得	work more and get more
多半	most; mostly; most likely
多吃多佔	taking or eating more than one's due (idiom); greedy and selfish
多吉幣	Dogecoin (cryptocurrency)
多咱	(dialect) when?; what time?; whenever
多哈	Doha, capital of Qatar
多哈回合	Doha Round (world trade talks that began in Doha, Qatar in 2001)
多哥	Togo
多嘴	talkative; to speak out of turn; to blab
多嘴多舌	to gossip and meddle; to shoot one's mouth off; talkative
多囊卵巢綜合症	polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
多國	multinational
多國公司	multinational corporation
多型	(computing) polymorphism
多報	to overstate
多士	toast (loanword)
多多	many; much; a lot
多多少少	to some extent; more or less
多多益善	the more the better
多多馬	Dodoma, capital of Tanzania
多大	how old?; how big?; how much?
多大點事	trivial matter; Big deal!
多如牛毛	(lit.) as numerous as the hairs of an ox (idiom)
多妻制	polygyny
多姿	many postures
多姿多彩	diversity (of forms and colors)
多媒體	multimedia
多子多福	the more sons, the more happiness (idiom)
多孔	porous
多孔動物	Porifera (phylum of sponges)
多孔動物門	(zoology) phylum Porifera (sponges)
多孔性	porous; having many holes (e.g. filter gauze or sieve)
多字節	multibyte
多學科	interdisciplinary
多寡	number; amount
多寶魚	turbot; European imported turbot; same as 大菱鮃|大菱鲆
多少	how much?; how many?; (phone number, student ID etc) what number?
多少有些	somewhat; more or less
多層	multilayered; multilevel; multistory
多層大廈	multistory building
多層材	plywood
多山	mountainous
多工	to multiplex; multiple; multi-
多工作業	multitasking
多工化	to multiplex
多工器	multiplexer
多工運作	multithreading
多巴胺	dopamine
多幕劇	play in several acts; full-length drama
多平臺	multi-platform (computing)
多年	many years; for many years; longstanding
多年來	for the past many years
多年生	(botany) (of a plant) perennial
多形核白細胞	polymorphonuclear leukocyte
多彩	colorful; flamboyant
多彩多姿	elegant and graceful posture; splendid, full of content
多得是	there's no shortage; there are plenty
多心	oversensitive; suspicious
多情	affectionate; passionate; emotional
多愁善感	(idiom) emotionally sensitive and prone to melancholy
多愁多病	much sorrows and illness (idiom); melancholy and weakly
多態	polymorphism
多慮	to worry unnecessarily
多手多腳	to meddle; to make a nuisance of oneself
多才	multitalented
多才多藝	multitalented
多拿滋	doughnut (loanword)
多放	add extra (of a spice etc)
多數	majority; most
多數決	majority decision
多數黨	majority party
多方	in many ways; from all sides
多方位	many-sided; versatile; various aspects
多方面	many-sided; in many aspects
多於	more than; greater than
多日賽	race of several days; many day competition
多早晚	when?
多明尼加	(Tw) Dominican Republic
多明尼加共和國	(Tw) Dominican Republic
多星	starry
多時	long time
多普勒	Christian Johann Doppler, Austrian physicist who discovered the Doppler effect
多普勒效應	the Doppler effect
多普達	Dopod (company name)
多晶	polycrystalline
多晶片模組	multi-chip module (MCM)
多晶硅	polycrystalline silicon (used in electronics)
多束	multibeam (e.g. laser)
多栽花少栽刺	talk nicely and avoid disputes; give compliments and not remarks
多極化	multipolar; multipolarization
多模	multimode
多模光纖	multimode fiber
多模塊	many modules; multiblock
多樣	diverse; diversity; manifold
多樣化	diversification; to diversify
多樣性	variegation; diversity
多次	many times; repeatedly
多此一舉	to do more than is required (idiom); superfluous; gilding the lily
多民族	multiethnic
多民族國家	multiethnic state
多氯聯苯	polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)
多水分	juicy
多汁	succulent; juicy
多災多難	to be plagued with misfortunes; precarious
多爾	Dole (name)
多爾袞	Dorgon (1612-1651), fourteenth son of Nurhaci 努爾哈赤|努尔哈赤[Nu3 er3 ha1 chi4], successful general, instrumental in Manchu conquest of China, ruled China as regent 1644-1650 for his nephew Emperor Shunzhi 順治帝|顺治帝[Shun4 zhi4 di4]
多特蒙德	Dortmund, city in the Ruhr 魯爾區|鲁尔区[Lu3 er3 Qu1], Germany
多瑙	the Danube
多瑙河	Danube
多瓣蒜	Chinese elephant garlic
多產	prolific; fertile; high yield
多用	multipurpose; having several uses
多用戶	multiuser
多用表	multimeter
多用途	multipurpose
多疑	mistrustful; suspicious; paranoid
多發性硬化症	multiple sclerosis
多發性骨髓瘤	(medicine) multiple myeloma
多發病	frequently reoccurring disease
多益	TOEIC (Test of English for International Communication) (Tw)
多目的	multipurpose
多看幾眼	to take a closer look; to look at (sb or sth) a few more times
多神教	polytheistic religion; polytheism
多神論	polytheism
多神論者	polytheist
多禮	too polite; overcourteous
多種	many kinds of; multiple; diverse; multi-
多種多樣	manifold; all sorts; many and varied
多種維生素	multivitamin
多站	multistation
多站地址	multicast address; multistation address
多端	multifarious; multifold; many and varied
多管閒事	meddling in other people's business
多米尼克	Dominica (Commonwealth of Dominica)
多米尼克國	Commonwealth of Dominica
多米尼加	Dominican Republic
多米尼加共和國	Dominican Republic
多米諾	(loanword) domino
多米諾骨牌	dominoes
多粒子	many-particle (physics)
多糖	polysaccharide
多累	I have troubled you
多細胞	multicellular
多細胞生物	multicellular organism
多維	multidimensional
多線染色體	polytene chromosome
多義	polysemy; polysemous; ambiguity (linguistics)
多義性	equivocality
多義詞	polyseme; polysemous word
多聞天	Vaisravana (one of the Heavenly Kings)
多肉	fleshy; meaty; succulents (abbr. for 多肉植物[duo1 rou4 zhi2 wu4])
多肉植物	succulent (plant)
多育	prolific; bearing many offspring
多肽	polypeptide, chain of amino acids linked by peptide bonds CO-NH, a component of protein
多胎妊娠	multiple pregnancy
多胞形	polytope
多舛	full of trouble and misfortune (usu. referring to sb's life)
多芬	Dove (brand)
多菲什	dogfish (loanword)
多葉	leafy
多虧	thanks to; luckily
多行不義必自斃	persisting in evil brings about self-destruction (idiom)
多角形	polygon; same as 多邊形|多边形
多角體	polyhedron
多言	wordy; talkative
多語言	multilingual
多謀善斷	(idiom) resourceful and decisive; resolute and sagacious
多謝	many thanks; thanks a lot
多變	fickle; (math.) multivariate
多足動物	myriapod; centipedes and millipedes
多足類	centipedes and millipedes
多輪	in many stages; multilayered; multipronged (attack)
多退少補	(after a sum has been paid in advance) to refund (in case of overpayment) or be reimbursed (in case of underpayment)
多達	up to; no less than; as much as
多選題	multiple-choice question
多邊	multilateral
多邊主義	multilateralism
多邊形	polygon
多那太羅	Donatello (c. 1386-1466)
多鄰國	Duolingo, a language-learning platform founded in 2011
多醣	polysaccharide
多重	multi- (faceted, cultural, ethnic etc)
多重國籍	dual nationality
多重性	multiplicity
多重結局	alternate ending; multiple endings
多金	rich; wealthy
多錢善賈	much capital, good business (idiom); fig. good trading conditions
多鏵犁	multishare or multifurrow plow
多難興邦	much hardships may awaken a nation (idiom); calamity that prompts renewal
多雲	(meteorology) cloudy
多面手	multitalented person; versatile person; all-rounder
多面角	solid angle
多面體	polyhedron
多音	polyphony
多音多義字	character having several readings and meanings
多音字	character with two or more readings
多音節詞	polysyllabic word; Chinese word made up of three or more characters
多項式	(math.) polynomial; multinomial
多項式方程	(math.) polynomial equation
多項式方程組	(math.) system of polynomial equations
多頭	many-headed; many-layered (authority)
多頭市場	bull market
多餘	superfluous; unnecessary; surplus
多香果	allspice; Jamaican pepper (Pimenta dioica)
多麼	how (wonderful etc); what (a great idea etc)
多點觸控	multi-touch (computing)
多黨	multiparty
多黨制	multiparty system
多黨選舉	multiparty election
夜	night
夜不成眠	to be unable to sleep at night
夜不歸宿	to stay out all night (idiom)
夜不閉戶	lit. doors not locked at night (idiom); fig. stable society
夜以繼日	night and day (idiom); continuous strenuous effort
夜來香	tuberose (Agave amica)
夜光	luminous
夜半	midnight
夜叉	yaksha (malevolent spirit) (loanword); (fig.) ferocious-looking person
夜場	evening show (at a theater etc)
夜壺	chamber pot
夜夜	every night
夜大	evening college (abbr. for 夜大學|夜大学[ye4 da4 xue2])
夜大學	evening college
夜宵	midnight snack
夜市	night market
夜幕	curtain of night; gathering darkness
夜幕低垂	darkness fell (falls, had fallen etc)
夜幕降臨	nightfall
夜床服務	(hospitality industry) turndown service
夜店	nightclub
夜晚	night
夜景	nightscape
夜曲	nocturne (music)
夜校	evening school; night school
夜梟	owl
夜深人靜	in the dead of night (idiom)
夜燈	night light
夜班	night shift
夜生活	night life
夜盆兒	chamber pot
夜盲	night blindness
夜盲症	night blindness; nyctalopia
夜神仙	night owl; late sleeper
夜空	night sky
夜總會	nightclub; nightspot
夜色	night scene; the dim light of night
夜色蒼茫	gathering dusk
夜行	night walk; night departure; nocturnal
夜行性	nocturnality; nocturnal
夜行晝伏	to travel at night and lie low by day (idiom)
夜行軍	a night march
夜裡	during the night; at night; nighttime
夜襲	night attack
夜視	night vision
夜視儀	night vision device
夜視鏡	night vision device
夜貓子	owl; (fig.) night owl
夜跑	to go for a nighttime run
夜遊	to go to some place at night; to take a night trip to (a place)
夜遊症	somnambulism; sleepwalking
夜郎	small barbarian kingdom in southern China during the Han dynasty
夜郎自大	lit. Yelang thinks highly of itself (idiom); fig. foolish conceit
夜開花	bottle gourd (i.e. 瓠瓜[hu4 gua1])
夜間	nighttime; evening or night (e.g. classes)
夜間部	(Tw) evening program (at a college); night school
夜闌	late at night; in the dead of night
夜闌人靜	the still of the night (idiom); late at night
夜闌珊	late at night
夜飯	(dialect) dinner; supper
夜香木	night-blooming jessamine (Cestrum nocturnum)
夜驚	night terror; sleep terror
夜鳥	nocturnal bird
夜鶯	nightingale
夜鷹	nightjar (nocturnal bird in the family Caprimulgidae)
夜鷺	(bird species of China) black-crowned night heron (Nycticorax nycticorax)
夠	enough (sufficient); enough (too much); (coll.) (before adj.) really
夠不著	to be unable to reach
夠受的	to be quite an ordeal; to be hard to bear
夠味	lit. just the right flavor; just right; just the thing
夠嗆	unbearable; terrible; enough
夠得上	to be good enough to be regarded as; to meet the standard expected of
夠得著	to reach (with one's hand etc); (fig.) to attain (an objective)
夠意思	wonderful; great; delightful
夠朋友	(coll.) to be a true friend
夠本	to break even; to get one's money's worth
夠格	able to pass muster; qualified; apt
夠用	adequate; sufficient; enough
夢	dream (CL:場|场[chang2]); (bound form) to dream
夢中	in a dream
夢中情人	dream guy or girl; ideal romantic partner
夢到	to dream of; to dream about
夢囈	talking in one's sleep; delirious ravings; nonsense
夢境	dreamland
夢寐	to dream; to sleep
夢寐以求	(lit.) to yearn for sth even in one's dreams (idiom)
夢幻	dream; illusion; reverie
夢幻泡影	(Buddhism) illusion; pipe dream
夢想	(fig.) to dream of; dream
夢想家	dreamer; visionary
夢景	dreamscape
夢核	dreamcore
夢溪筆談	Dream Pool Essays by Shen Kuo 沈括[Shen3 Kuo4], book on various fields of knowledge, the first to describe the magnetic needle compass
夢行症	somnambulism; sleepwalking
夢見	to dream about (sth or sb); to see in a dream
夢話	talking in one's sleep; words spoken during sleep
夢遊	to sleepwalk; to journey in a dream
夢遊症	somnambulism; sleepwalking
夢遺	wet dream; nocturnal emission
夢鄉	the land of dreams; slumberland
夢露	Marilyn Monroe (1926-1962), American actress
夢魔	night demon (malign spirit believed to plague people during sleep)
夢魘	nightmare
夤	late at night
夤夜	(literary) late at night; in the dead of night
夤緣	to curry favor; to advance one's career by toadying
夤緣攀附	to cling to the rich and powerful (idiom); to advance one's career by currying favor
夥	companion; partner; group
夥伴	companion; pal; partner; business associate
夥頤	(literary) very many; wow! (an exclamation of surprise and admiration)
大	big; large; great; older (than another person)
大V	influential microblogger with a verified account (hence the "V")
大一	first year of university
大一些	a bit bigger
大一統	unification (of the nation); large scale unification
大一統誌	Da Yuan Dayitongzhi, Yuan dynasty geographical encyclopedia, compiled 1285-1294 under Jamal al-Din 紮馬剌丁|扎马剌丁 and Yu Yinglong 虞應龍|虞应龙, 755 scrolls
大丈夫	a manly man; a man of character
大丈夫能屈能伸	A leader can submit or can stand tall as required.
大三	third year of university
大三和弦	major triad do-mi-so
大三度	major third (musical interval)
大不了	at worst; if worst comes to worst
大不列蹀	(dialect) full of oneself; too big for one's boots
大不列顛	Great Britain
大不如前	a lot worse than it used to be
大不相同	not at all the same; substantially different
大不里士	Tabriz city in northwest Iran, capital of Iranian East Azerbaijan
大不韙	great error; heinous crime
大中學生	university and high school students
大中華	Greater China
大丹犬	Great Dane (dog breed)
大主教	archbishop; primate (of a church); metropolitan
大久保	Japanese surname and place name Ōkubo
大久保利通	Oukubo Toshimichi (1830-1878), Japanese politician
大乘	Mahayana, the Great Vehicle
大事	major event; major political event (war or change of regime)
大事化小，小事化了	to turn big problems into small ones, and small problems into no problems at all (idiom)
大二	second year of university
大五碼	Big5 Chinese character coding (developed by Taiwanese companies from 1984)
大五趾跳鼠	great jerboa (Allactaga major)
大亞灣	Daya Bay, located on the coast of Guangdong, near Shenzhen and Hong Kong
大亨	big shot; top gun; superstar
大人	adult; grownup; title of respect toward superiors
大人不記小人過	a person of great moral stature does not remember the offenses committed by one of low moral stature
大仙	great immortal
大仙鶲	(bird species of China) large niltava (Niltava grandis)
大仲馬	Alexandre Dumas, père (1802-1870), French writer
大件	large; bulky; big-ticket item
大伯	husband's older brother
大伯子	(coll.) husband's elder brother
大作	your work (book, musical composition etc) (honorific); to erupt
大佬	big shot (leading some field or group); godfather (in an organization)
大使	ambassador; envoy
大使級	ambassadorial
大使館	embassy
大便	to defecate; excrement; feces
大便乾燥	constipated
大便祕結	constipation
大俠	knight; swordsman; noble warrior
大修	overhaul
大修道院	abbey; large monastery or convent
大修道院長	abbot
大個兒	(coll.) tall person
大倫敦地區	Greater London; London region, England
大偉	David (name)
大傷元氣	to ruin one's constitution
大元大一統誌	Da Yuan Dayitongzhi, Yuan dynasty geographical encyclopedia, compiled 1285-1294 under Jamal al-Din 紮馬剌丁|扎马剌丁 and Yu Yinglong 虞應龍|虞应龙, 755 scrolls
大元帥	generalissimo
大先知書	the biblical books of the prophets
大內	Danei, a district in Tainan 台南|台南[Tai2 nan2], Taiwan
大全	comprehensive collection
大公	grand duke; impartial
大公司	large company; corporation
大公國	grand duchy
大公國際	Dagong Global Credit Rating, credit rating agency based in China
大公報	Dagong Bao, popular newspaper name
大公無私	selfless; impartial
大兵	soldier; large army; powerful army
大典	ceremony; collection of classical writings
大冰期	ice age
大冶市	Daye, a county-level city in Huangshi City 黃石市|黄石市[Huang2 shi2 Shi4], Hubei
大冷天	freezing cold day
大凡	generally; in general
大出血	to hemorrhage
大刀	broadsword; large knife; machete
大刀會	Great Sword Society, an offshoot of the White Lotus in the late Qing dynasty, involved in anti-Western activity at the time of the Boxer rebellion
大刀闊斧	bold and decisive
大分	Ōita (prefecture in Japan)
大分子	macromolecule (chemistry)
大分界嶺	Great Dividing Range, mountain range along the east coast of Australia
大列巴	big Russian-style bread (loanword from Russian "хлеб")
大別山	Dabie mountain range on the borders of Henan, Anhui and Hubei provinces
大利拉	(Protestantism) Delilah
大剌剌	pompous; with a swagger; casual
大前天	three days ago
大前年	three years ago
大前提	major premise
大副	first mate; first officer (of a ship)
大力	energetically; vigorously
大力士	strong man; Hercules
大力水手	Popeye (the Sailor)
大力神	Heracles (Greek mythology); Hercules (Roman mythology)
大力神杯	FIFA World Cup trophy
大力鉗	locking pliers; mole grips
大功	great merit; great service
大功告成	successfully accomplished (project or goal); to be highly successful
大加	(before a two-syllable verb) considerably; greatly (exaggerate)
大加那利島	Gran Canaria (in the Canary Islands)
大勇若怯	a great hero may appear timid (idiom); the really brave person remains level-headed
大勇若怯，大智若愚	a great hero may appear timid, the wise may appear stupid (idiom); the general public may not recognize great talent
大動干戈	lit. to go to war (idiom); fig. to make a big fuss over sth
大動肝火	(idiom) to fly into a rage; to lose one's temper
大動脈	main artery (blood vessel); fig. main highway; arterial road
大勝	to defeat decisively; to win decisively; great victory
大勢	overall trend
大勢所趨	(idiom) the prevailing trend; the trend of the times; an inevitable direction
大勢至菩薩	(Buddhism) Mahasthamaprapta, the Great Strength Bodhisattva
大包大攬	to take complete charge (idiom)
大化瑤族自治縣	Dahua Yao Autonomous County, in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
大匠	master craftsman; Han dynasty official title
大千世界	great wide world; marvelously diverse world
大半	more than half; greater part; most
大半夜	the middle of the night
大卡	kilocalorie; big truck
大印	stamp; official seal
大叔	eldest of father's younger brothers
大口	big mouthful (of food, drink, smoke etc); open mouth; gulping
大口徑	large-caliber; large-bore
大可不必	need not; unnecessary
大司農	minister responsible for agriculture and state granaries in imperial China
大吃	to gorge oneself; to pig out
大吃一驚	(idiom) astounded; flabbergasted; taken aback
大吃二喝	to eat and drink extravagantly; to binge
大吃大喝	to eat and drink as much as one likes; to make a pig of oneself
大吃特吃	to gorge oneself with food
大合唱	cantata; chorus
大吉	very auspicious; extremely lucky
大吉大利	great luck, great profit (idiom); everything is thriving
大吉嶺	Darjeeling, town in India
大同	(Confucianism) Great Harmony (concept of an ideal society)
大同區	Datong or Tatung District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
大同小異	virtually the same; differing only on small points
大同市	Datong, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
大同鄉	person from the same province
大名	famous name; your distinguished name; one's formal personal name
大名縣	Daming, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
大名鼎鼎	grand reputation; renowned; famous
大吞噬細胞	macrophage
大吵大鬧	to shout and scream (idiom); to kick up a fuss; to make a scene
大吹大擂	to make an exhibition of oneself; ostentation
大呼小叫	to shout and quarrel; to make a big fuss
大呼拉爾	State Great Khural or Great State Assembly, Mongolian parliament
大和	Yamato, an ancient Japanese province, a period of Japanese history, a place name, a surname etc
大咖	(coll.) major figure; celebrity; big shot
大員	high official
大哥	eldest brother
大哥大	cell phone (bulky, early-model one); brick phone; mob boss
大哭	to cry loudly
大唐	the Tang dynasty (618-907)
大唐狄公案	Three Murder Cases Solved by Judge Dee, 1949 novel by R.H. van Gulik, featuring Tang Dynasty politician Di Renjie 狄仁傑|狄仁杰[Di2 Ren2 jie2] as master sleuth
大唐芙蓉園	Tang Paradise in Xi'an
大唐西域記	Great Tang Records on the Western Regions, travel record of Xuan Zang 玄奘[Xuan2 zang4], compiled by 辯機|辩机[Bian4 ji1] in 646
大啖一番	to have a square meal
大喊	to shout
大喊大叫	shouting and screaming (idiom); to scream loudly; to rant
大喜	exultation
大喜過望	overjoyed at unexpected good news (idiom)
大嗓	loud voice
大嘴巴	bigmouth; blabbermouth
大嘴烏鴉	(bird species of China) large-billed crow (Corvus macrorhynchos)
大嘴鳥	toucan
大器	very capable person; precious object
大器晚成	lit. it takes a long time to make a big pot (idiom); fig. a great talent matures slowly
大噪鶥	(bird species of China) giant laughingthrush (Ianthocincla maxima)
大四	fourth year of university
大國	a power (i.e. a dominant country)
大圓	great circle (in spherical geometry)
大圓圈	great circle (in spherical geometry)
大地	earth; mother earth
大地主	a large landowner
大地水準面	geoid
大地測量學	geodesy
大地線	a geodesic (curve)
大坂	Japanese surname Osaka
大坑	Tai Hang District, Hong Kong
大型	large; large-scale
大型強子對撞機	Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
大型空爆炸彈	Massive Ordinance Air Blast (MOAB), a powerful American bomb
大城市	major city; metropolis
大城縣	Dacheng, a county in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
大埔	Dabu County in Meizhou 梅州[Mei2 zhou1], Guangdong
大埔縣	Dabu, a county in Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
大堂	lobby
大堡礁	Great Barrier Reef, Queensland, Australia
大場鶇	OHBA Tsugumi (pen-name), author of cult series Death Note 死亡筆記|死亡笔记[si3 wang2 bi3 ji4]
大塊頭	heavy man; fat man; lunkhead
大塚	Ōtsuka (Japanese surname)
大墓地	necropolis
大壞蛋	scoundrel; bastard
大壩	dam
大壽	(polite) birthday making the beginning of new decade of life for an older person, especially over 50 years old (e.g. 60th or 70th birthday)
大夏	Han Chinese name for an ancient Central Asia country
大外	abbr. for 大連外國語大學|大连外国语大学[Da4 lian2 Wai4 guo2 yu3 Da4 xue2]
大外宣	(derog.) China's foreign propaganda machine (esp. since c. 2009)
大多	for the most part; many; most
大多數	(great) majority
大夜	the second half of the night; early morning (cf. 小夜[xiao3 ye4], evening)
大夜班	graveyard shift; late night shift
大夥	everyone; all of us; all of you
大大	greatly; enormously; (dialect) dad
大大咧咧	(idiom) carefree; offhand; casual
大大小小	large and small; of all sizes
大大方方	confident; calm; natural
大天鵝	(bird species of China) whooper swan (Cygnus cygnus)
大夫	senior official (in imperial China)
大失所望	greatly disappointed
大姐	big sister; elder sister
大姐大	female gang leader; the top woman in her field; doyenne; matriarch
大姐頭	(Tw) female gang leader; female boss; big sister
大姑	father's oldest sister; husband's older sister; sister-in-law
大姚縣	Dayao, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
大姦似忠	the most treacherous person appears the most guileless (idiom)
大姨	aunt (mother's eldest sister)
大姨媽	mother's eldest sister (older than one's mother)
大姨子	sister-in-law; wife's older sister
大娘	(coll.) father's older brother's wife; aunt (polite address)
大婚	to have a grand wedding; to get married in lavish style
大媒	matchmaker
大媽	father's elder brother's wife
大嫂	older brother's wife; sister-in-law
大字報	big-character poster
大學	the Great Learning, one of the Four Books 四書|四书[Si4 shu1] in Confucianism
大學入學指定科目考試	Advanced Subjects Test, university entrance exam that assesses candidates’ higher level knowledge of specific subjects and their readiness to study in their selected academic discipline (Tw)
大學城	university city
大學學科能力測驗	General Scholastic Ability Test (college entrance exam in Taiwan)
大學本科	university undergraduate course
大學生	university student; college student
大學部	undergraduate course of study (Tw)
大學預科	university preparatory course
大宇	Daewoo (Korean conglomerate)
大安	Da'an, the name of a numerous entities, including districts of several cities, and a county-level city 大安市[Da4 an1 Shi4] in Baicheng 白城市[Bai2 cheng2 Shi4], Jilin
大安區	Da'an, a district of Zigong City 自貢市|自贡市[Zi4 gong4 Shi4], Sichuan
大安市	Da'an, a county-level city in Baicheng City 白城市[Bai2 cheng2 Shi4], Jilin
大安的列斯群島	the Greater Antilles, Caribbean island group including Cuba, Hispaniola (Haiti and the Dominican Republic), Jamaica and Puerto Rico
大宗	large amount; staple; influential family of long standing
大宛	ancient state of central Asia
大客車	coach
大家	everyone; influential family; great expert
大家夥兒	(coll.) everyone; all of us; you folks
大家庭	extended family; big family; harmonious group
大家閨秀	girl from a wealthy family; unmarried daughter of a noble house
大容量	high capacity
大富大貴	very rich; millionaire
大富翁	Monopoly (game); known as 地產大亨|地产大亨[Di4 chan3 Da4 heng1] in Taiwan
大寒	Great Cold, 24th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 20th January-3rd February
大寧縣	Daning, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
大寨	Dazhai
大寫	capital letters; uppercase letters; block letters
大寫字母	capital letters; uppercase letters
大寫鎖定	caps lock
大寶	Taiho (a Japanese era)
大寺院	abbey; large monastery
大將	a general or admiral
大將軍	important general; generalissimo
大專	three-year college; junior college; professional training college
大尉	captain (army rank); senior captain
大小	large and small; size; adults and children
大小三度	major and minor third (musical interval)
大小便	using the toilet; urination and defecation
大小姐	eldest daughter of an affluent family; (polite) your daughter
大小寫	capitals and lowercase letters
大小眼	one eye bigger than the other
大小聲	(Tw) (coll.) to speak loudly and emotionally; to raise one's voice; to yell and shout
大尾巴狼	(coll.) person who puts on an act: feigning ignorance, pretending to be solicitous, acting innocent etc
大局	overall situation; the big picture
大屠殺	massacre; mass slaughter
大屯火山群	Tatun Volcanic Group, volcanic area to the north of Taipei
大山	Dashan, stage name of Canadian Mark Henry Rowswell (1965-), actor and well-known TV personality in PRC
大山貓	Lynx rufus
大山雀	(bird species of China) great tit (Parus major)
大峽谷	great valley; Grand Canyon of Colorado River
大嶼山	Lantau Island, an island in Hong Kong
大差不差	roughly the same
大巴	(coll.) large bus; coach; (abbr. for 大型巴士)
大帝	heavenly emperor; "the Great" (title)
大帥	(old) commanding general; commander-in-chief
大師	great master; master
大幅	large-format (picture, banner, photo etc)
大幅度	substantially; by a wide margin
大年三十	last day of the lunar year; Chinese New Year's Eve
大年初一	Lunar New Year's Day
大幹	to go all out; to work energetically
大床房	hotel room with one double (or queen or king) bed
大度	magnanimous; generous (in spirit)
大度包容	generous and forgiving
大庭廣眾	(idiom) in public; in front of everyone; openly (typically preceded by 在[zai4] and followed by 之下[zhi1 xia4])
大庸	Dayong, former name of Zhangjiajie 張家界|张家界[Zhang1 jia1 jie4], Hunan
大庾嶺	Dayu mountain range between southwest Jiangxi and Guangdong
大廈	(used in the names of grand buildings such as 百老匯大廈|百老汇大厦 Broadway Mansions (in Shanghai) or 帝國大廈|帝国大厦 Empire State Building etc)
大廈將傾	great mansion on the verge of collapse (idiom); hopeless situation
大廚	chef
大廠	large factory; major manufacturer; (coll.) major tech company
大廠回族自治縣	Dachang Hui Autonomous County, in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
大廳	hall; concourse; public lounge; (hotel) lobby
大建	lunar month of 30 days; same as 大盡|大尽[da4 jin4]
大張撻伐	(idiom) to launch an all-out attack; to roundly condemn; to castigate
大張旗鼓	(idiom) with great fanfare; on a grand scale
大張聲勢	to spread one's voice wide (idiom); wide publicity
大後天	three days from now
大後年	three years from now; year after year after next year
大徹大悟	to achieve supreme enlightenment or nirvana (Buddhism)
大心	(Tw) considerate; thoughtful (from Taiwanese 貼心, Tai-lo pr. [tah-sim])
大志	high aims
大忙人	busy bee; very busy person
大快人心	to the satisfaction of everyone
大快朵頤	(idiom) to eat with great relish; to feast on (sth)
大怒	to become furious; to explode in anger
大恩不言謝	(maxim) a mere "thank you" is an insufficient response to a huge favor
大恭	(literary) excrement; feces
大悟縣	Dawu, a county in Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
大悲咒	the Great Compassion Mantra
大惑不解	to be at a loss (idiom)
大意	general idea; main idea
大意失荊州	lit. to lose Jingzhou due to carelessness (idiom)
大愚	idiot; ignorant fool
大慈恩寺	Daci'en Buddhist temple in Xi'an
大慶市	Daqing, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
大憝	archenemy; chief enemy
大憲章	Magna Carta
大我	the collective; the whole; (Buddhism) the greater self
大戟科	Euphorbiaceae (plant family including rubber and cassava)
大戰	war; to wage war
大戲	large-scale Chinese opera; Beijing opera
大戶	great family; rich family; large landlord
大戶人家	(idiom) wealthy, prominent family
大手大腳	extravagant (idiom); to throw away money by the handful; wasteful
大打出手	to come to blows; to start a fight
大批	large quantities of
大批特批	to criticize severly; to censure
大抵	generally speaking; by and large; for the most part
大拇哥	thumb; big toe; USB flash drive
大拇指	Tom Thumb (small person in folk tales)
大拐	to turn left (Shanghainese)
大括弧	braces; curly brackets { }
大括號	braces; curly brackets { }
大拿	(coll.) man in power; boss; authority
大指	thumb; big toe
大排檔	food stall; open-air restaurant
大排長龍	to form a long queue (idiom); (of cars) to be bumper to bumper
大提琴	cello (CL:把[ba3])
大提琴手	cellist
大搖大擺	to strut; swaggering
大擬啄木鳥	(bird species of China) great barbet (Psilopogon virens)
大放光明	to shine brightly; (fig.) to show promise; to be on the up and up
大放厥詞	to prattle on self-importantly (idiom)
大放悲聲	to wail loudly and mournfully (idiom)
大放異彩	to shine (of talents, skills, accomplishment)
大政方針	major policy of the national government
大政翼贊會	Taisei Yokusankai, Japanese fascist organization created in 1940
大敗	to defeat; to inflict a defeat on sb
大教堂	cathedral
大敵當前	(idiom) to be faced with a formidable enemy
大數	Tarsus, Mediterranean city in Turkey, the birthplace of St Paul
大數據	big data (computing)
大斑啄木鳥	(bird species of China) great spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopos major)
大斑鶺鴒	(bird species of China) white-browed wagtail (Motacilla maderaspatensis)
大料	star anise
大新縣	Daxin, a county in Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
大方	generous; magnanimous; stylish
大方之家	learned person; expert in a certain field; abbr. to 方家[fang1 jia1]
大方廣佛華嚴經	Avatamsaka sutra of the Huayan school
大方縣	Dafang, a county in Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
大於	greater than; bigger than; more than
大族	large and influential family; clan
大旗	banner
大日如來	Vairocana, Buddha of supreme enlightenment
大旱望雲霓	(lit.) looking for rain clouds in times of drought (idiom)
大明曆	the 5th century Chinese calendar established by Zu Chongzhi 祖沖之|祖冲之
大明湖	Daming Lake in Jinan 濟南|济南[Ji3 nan2], Shandong
大明蝦	king prawn
大星芹	great masterwort (Astrantia major)
大昭寺	Jokhang, main Buddhist temple in Lhasa, a sacred place of Tibetan Buddhism
大晚上	very late at night
大智如愚	the wise may appear stupid (idiom); a genius not appreciated in his own time
大智慧	great wisdom and knowledge (Buddhism)
大智若愚	(idiom) great intelligence may appear to be stupidity
大暑	Dashu or Great Heat, 12th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 23rd July-6th August
大會	general assembly; general meeting; convention
大月	solar month of 31 days; a lunar month of 30 days
大月氏	the Greater Yuezhi, a branch of the Yuezhi 月氏[Yue4 zhi1] people of central Asia during the Han dynasty
大有	there is a great deal of ... (typically followed by a bisyllabic word, as in 大有希望[da4 you3 xi1 wang4])
大有人在	there are plenty of such people
大有作為	to accomplish much; to have good prospects; to have a promising future
大有可為	with great prospects for the future (idiom); well worth doing
大有學問	(of a domain or area of expertise) to involve significant depth or complexity; to require a great deal of specialized knowledge; to be a real science; to be a fine art
大有希望	to stand a good chance; to have great hopes; to be promising
大有文章	some deeper meaning in this; more to it than meets the eye
大有裨益	bringing great benefits (idiom); very useful; of great service
大本涅槃經	(Buddhism) the Nirvana Sutra
大本營	headquarters; base camp
大本鐘	Big Ben
大朱雀	(bird species of China) great rosefinch (Carpodacus rubicilla)
大李杜	Li Bai 李白[Li3 Bai2] and Du Fu 杜甫[Du4 Fu3]
大材小用	(idiom) to use a talented person in a role far beneath their ability; a waste of talent
大杓鷸	(bird species of China) Far Eastern curlew (Numenius madagascariensis)
大杜鵑	(bird species of China) common cuckoo (Cuculus canorus)
大東亞共榮圈	Great East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, Japanese wartime slogan for their short-lived Pacific Empire, first enunciated by Prime Minister Prince KONOE Fumimaro 近衛文麿|近卫文麿 in 1938
大東區	Dadong, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
大染缸	big dyeing vat; (fig.) corrupting environment
大柴旦	Da Qaidam county level subdivision of Haixi Mongol and Tibetan autonomous prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
大柴旦行政區	Da Qaidam county level subdivision of Haixi Mongol and Tibetan autonomous prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
大柴旦行政委員會	Da Qaidam county level subdivision of Haixi Mongol and Tibetan autonomous prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州, Qinghai
大校	senior ranking officer in Chinese army; senior colonel
大根蘭	Cymbidium macrorrhizum Lindl.
大桶	barrel; vat
大梁	capital of Wei 魏 during Warring states
大條	(used to modify 事情[shi4 qing5]) serious; grave
大棒	big stick (policy etc)
大棚	greenhouse; polytunnel
大業	great cause; great undertaking
大概	roughly; probably; rough
大樓	building (a relatively large, multistory one)
大模大樣	boldly; ostentatiously; poised; self-assured
大樣	arrogant; full-page proofs (of newspaper); detailed drawing
大樹底下好乘涼	lit. under a big tree the shade is plentiful (idiom)
大樹菠蘿	jackfruit
大樹鶯	(bird species of China) chestnut-crowned bush warbler (Cettia major)
大橋	Da Qiao, one of the Two Qiaos, according to Romance of the Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4], the two great beauties of ancient China
大櫻桃	sweet cherry
大權	power; authority
大權在握	to be in a position of power
大款	very wealthy person
大正	Taishō, Japanese era name, corresponding to the reign (1912-1926) of emperor Yoshihito 嘉仁[Jia1 ren2]
大步	large strides
大步流星	at a stride; taking large steps (while walking)
大武口區	Dawukou, a district of Shizuishan City 石嘴山市[Shi2 zui3 shan1 Shi4], Ningxia
大殺風景	to be a blot on the landscape; to dampen spirits; to spoil the fun
大殿	main hall of a Buddhist temple
大比目魚	halibut
大氅	overcoat; cloak; cape
大氣	atmosphere (surrounding the earth); imposing; impressive; stylish
大氣候	atmosphere
大氣圈	atmosphere
大氣壓	atmospheric pressure
大氣壓力	atmospheric pressure
大氣壓強	atmospheric pressure
大氣層	(meteorology) the atmosphere; atmospheric layer
大氣層核試驗	atmospheric nuclear test
大氣暖化	atmospheric warming
大氣污染	air pollution; atmospheric pollution
大氣環流	atmospheric circulation
大氧吧	source of oxygen (of forests and nature reserves)
大水	flood
大水沖了龍王廟	lit. surging waters flooded the Dragon King temple (idiom)
大汗	profuse perspiration
大汗淋漓	dripping with sweat
大江健三郎	Oe Kenzaburo (1935-) Japanese novelist and 1994 Nobel laureate
大江南北	north and south sides of the Yangtze River (idiom)
大汶口文化	Dawenkou culture (c. 4100-2600 BC), Neolithic culture based in today's Shandong area 山東|山东[Shan1 dong1]
大沙河	Dasha River (the name of rivers in various parts of China)
大沙錐	(bird species of China) Swinhoe's snipe (Gallinago megala)
大河	large river (esp the Yellow River)
大油	lard
大油菜	oilseed rape (Brassica napus)
大沽口砲臺	Taku Forts, maritime defense works in Tianjin dating back to the Ming dynasty, playing a prominent role during the Opium Wars (1839-1860)
大沽砲臺	Taku Forts, maritime defense works in Tianjin dating back to the Ming dynasty, playing a prominent role during the Opium Wars (1839-1860)
大法官	grand justice; high court justice; supreme court justice
大波斯菊	cosmos (Cosmos bipinnatus), flowering herbaceous plant
大洋	ocean; (old) silver dollar; (slang) Chinese yuan
大洋中脊	mid-ocean ridge (geology)
大洋型地殼	oceanic crust (geology)
大洋洲	Oceania
大洋龍	halisaurus
大洲	continent
大流行	major epidemic; pandemic
大浦洞	Taepodong, North Korean rocket series
大浪	billow; surge
大海	sea; ocean
大海撈針	lit. to fish a needle from the sea
大淺盤	platter
大清	Great Qing dynasty (1644-1911)
大清帝國	Great Qing Empire (1644-1911)
大清早	early in the morning
大渡口區	Dadukou, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
大渡河	Dadu River in Sichuan
大港	Dagang former district of Tianjin, now part of Binhai subprovincial district 濱海新區|滨海新区[Bin1 hai3 xin1 qu1]
大港區	Dagang former district of Tianjin, now part of Binhai subprovincial district 濱海新區|滨海新区[Bin1 hai3 xin1 qu1]
大湄公河次區域	Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS), area of economic cooperation between China and Vietnam
大溪地	Tahiti, island of the Society Islands group in French Polynesia (Tw)
大溪豆乾	dried tofu made in Daxi, a district of Taoyuan, Taiwan famous for its dried tofu 豆干[dou4 gan1]
大滅絕	mass extinction
大滿貫	grand slam
大漠	desert
大漢	burly fellow
大漢族主義	Greater Han nationalism
大潤發	RT Mart (supermarket chain)
大潮	spring tide; (fig.) momentous social change
大澤鄉起義	Dazexiang Uprising, another name for 陳勝吳廣起義|陈胜吴广起义[Chen2 Sheng4 Wu2 Guang3 Qi3 yi4]
大濱鷸	(bird species of China) great knot (Calidris tenuirostris)
大灣區	Greater Bay Area, established in 2017, consisting of Hong Kong, Macao and nine cities in Guangdong (abbr. for 粵港澳大灣區|粤港澳大湾区[Yue4 Gang3 Ao4 Da4 wan1 Qu1])
大火	conflagration; large fire
大灰啄木鳥	(bird species of China) great slaty woodpecker (Mulleripicus pulverulentus)
大灰狼	big bad wolf
大灶	large kitchen stove made from bricks or earth
大災	calamity; catastrophe
大炮打蚊子	cannon fire to hit a mosquito; to use a sledgehammer to crack a nut
大為	very; greatly
大烏蘇里島	Bolshoi Ussuriisk Island in the Heilongjiang or Amur river, at mouth of the Ussuri River opposite Khabarovsk
大烏鴉	a raven
大無畏	utterly fearless
大煙	opium
大熊座	Ursa Major, the Great Bear (constellation)
大熊貓	giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca)
大熔爐	lit. large smelting furnace
大熱	great heat; very popular
大熱天	scorcher; very hot day
大燈	headlight
大爆炸	Big Bang (cosmology)
大爺	(coll.) father's older brother; uncle; term of respect for older man
大片	wide expanse; large area; vast stretch
大牌	strong card; honor card (card games)
大牌檔	food stall; open-air restaurant (original Hong Kong written form, now usually written as 大排檔|大排档[da4 pai2 dang4])
大牛	(coll.) leading light; superstar; badass
大牢	prison
大犬座	Canis Major (constellation)
大猩猩	gorilla
大獄	jail; prison
大獎	prize; award
大獎賽	grand prix
大獲全勝	to seize total victory (idiom); an overwhelming victory
大王	king; magnate; person having expert skill in something
大王蛇	king ratsnake (Elaphe carinata)
大班	tai-pan; business executive; foreign business manager
大球	sports such as soccer, basketball and volleyball that use large balls
大理	judicial officer; justice of the peace (old)
大理寺	Imperial Court of Judicial Review
大理寺卿	Chief Justice of the Imperial Court of Judicial Review
大理岩	marble
大理市	Dali, a county-level city in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
大理白族自治州	Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
大理石	marble
大理花	dahlia (loanword)
大環	Tai Wan, a locality in Kowloon, Hong Kong
大環境	the environment (from a macro perspective); the broader context; the bigger picture
大生	(Tw) university student (abbr. for 大學生|大学生[da4 xue2 sheng1])
大用	to put sb in powerful position; to empower
大田	Daejeon, a city in South Korea
大田縣	Datian, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
大男人	very masculine guy; a real man; (used ironically) a grown man
大男人主義	male chauvinism
大男子主義	male chauvinism
大男子主義者	male chauvinist
大略	a broad outline; the general idea; roughly
大疆	DJI, Chinese technology company
大病	serious illness
大瘡	syphilis; syphilitic ulcer
大發	Daihatsu, Japanese car company
大發雷霆	to be furious; to fly into a terrible rage
大白	(of facts or truth) to become fully revealed; to come to light
大白天	in broad daylight
大白熊犬	Great Pyrenees (dog breed)
大白菜	Chinese cabbage; napa cabbage (Brassica rapa subsp. pekinensis)
大白話	colloquial speech
大白鯊	great white shark (Carcharodon carcharias)
大白鷺	(bird species of China) great egret (Ardea alba)
大白鼠	white lab rat
大盜	thief; bandit (esp. one who has gained notoriety)
大盡	lunar month of 30 days; same as 大建[da4 jian4]
大盤尾	(bird species of China) greater racket-tailed drongo (Dicrurus paradiseus)
大盤雞	dapanji or "big plate chicken", a kind of spicy chicken stew originating from Xinjiang
大相徑庭	as different as can be (idiom); poles apart
大眼瞪小眼	(idiom) to look at each other, not knowing what to do
大眼角	inner corner of the eye
大眾	the masses; the great bulk of the population
大眾傳播	mass communication
大眾化	mass-oriented; to cater for the masses; popularized
大眾捷運	mass rapid transit MRT
大眾汽車	Volkswagen
大眾運輸	public transport (Tw)
大眾部	Mahasanghika (branch of Buddhism)
大短趾百靈	(bird species of China) greater short-toed lark (Calandrella brachydactyla)
大石橋市	Dashiqiao, a county-level city in Yingkou City 營口市|营口市[Ying2 kou3 Shi4], Liaoning
大石雞	(bird species of China) Przevalski's partridge (Alectoris magna)
大石鴴	(bird species of China) great stone-curlew (Esacus recurvirostris)
大砲	big gun; cannon; artillery
大破大立	to destroy the old and establish the new (idiom)
大碼	large size
大礙	(usually used in the negative) major issue; serious problem; big deal
大神	deity; (Internet slang) guru; expert
大祥區	Daxiang, a district of Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
大祭司	High Priest
大禍	disaster; calamity
大禍臨頭	facing imminent catastrophe; calamity looms; all hell will break loose
大福	a great blessing
大禮帽	top hat
大禹	Yu the Great (c. 21st century BC) mythical leader who tamed the floods
大秘	(coll.) top aide; senior personal secretary (to a senior official)
大秦	Han Dynasty term for the Roman Empire 羅馬帝國|罗马帝国[Luo2 ma3 Di4 guo2]
大窪區	Dawa, a district of Panjin City 盤錦市|盘锦市[Pan2 jin3 Shi4], Liaoning
大竹縣	Dazhu, a county in Dazhou City 達州市|达州市[Da2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
大笑	to laugh heartily; a belly laugh
大笨象	(slang) elephant
大笨鳥	(bird species of China) Malayan night heron (Gorsachius melanolophus)
大筆	(formal) (honorific) your writing; your handwriting
大箐山縣	Daqingshan, a county in Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
大管	bassoon
大節	major festival; important matter; major principle
大範圍	large-scale
大篆	the great seal; used narrowly for 籀文
大篷車	covered truck; covered wagon
大米	(husked) rice
大糞	human excrement
大系	compendium
大紀元	Epoch Times, US newspaper
大紀元時報	Epoch Times, US newspaper
大約	approximately; probably
大紅	crimson
大紅大紫	to hit the big time
大紅大綠	bright-colored; garish
大紅燈籠高高掛	Raise the Red Lantern (1991), movie by Zhang Yimou 張藝謀|张艺谋[Zhang1 Yi4 mou2]
大紅袍	an expensive type of oolong tea
大紅鸛	(bird species of China) greater flamingo (Phoenicopterus roseus)
大紅鼻子	rhinophyma (red nose, often related to rosacea or excessive alcohol)
大紫胸鸚鵡	(bird species of China) Lord Derby's parakeet (Psittacula derbiana)
大紫荊勳章	Great Bauhinia Medal (GBM), established in 1997 as the highest award under Hong Kong's honors and awards system
大結局	finale (of a series); grand finale
大絕滅	mass extinction
大綠雀鵯	(bird species of China) great iora (Aegithina lafresnayei)
大綱	synopsis; outline; program
大總統	president (primarily used during the early years of the Republic of China, 1912–1928)
大罵	to rain curses (on sb); to let sb have it; to bawl sb out
大羊駝	llama
大美人	gorgeous-looking woman
大義	righteousness; virtuous cause; a woman's marriage
大義凜然	devotion to righteousness that inspires reverence (idiom)
大義滅親	to place righteousness before family (idiom); ready to punish one's own family if justice demands it
大老婆	primary wife
大老粗	uncouth fellow; rustic
大老遠	very far away
大考	final exam; to take an end-of-term exam
大而化之	careless; sloppy
大而無當	grandiose but impractical (idiom); large but of no real use
大耳窿	loan shark; usurer
大聖	great sage; mahatma; king
大聲	loud voice; in a loud voice; loudly
大聲疾呼	to call loudly (idiom); to get people's attention
大肆	wantonly; without restraint (of enemy or malefactor); unbridled
大肆攻擊	to vilify sb wantonly; unrestrained attack (on sb)
大肆鼓吹	to advocate vociferously
大肉	pork
大肚子	pregnant; potbelly; big eater
大肚子經濟	"Pregnancy-oriented Economy", new market conditions brought about by a predicted baby boom in China
大股東	large stockholder; majority shareholder
大胃王	eating champion
大能	almighty
大腕	(coll.) big shot; big name; bigwig; heavyweight
大腦	brain; cerebrum
大腦死亡	brain death
大腳	naturally-formed feet (as opposed to bound feet 小腳|小脚[xiao3 jiao3])
大腳怪	bigfoot
大腸	the large intestine
大腸包小腸	small sausage in large sausage (pork sausage stuffed inside a glutinous rice sausage, a Taiwanese street food specialty)
大腸桿菌	Escherichia coli (E. coli)
大腸激躁症	irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)
大腹便便	big-bellied (idiom); paunchy
大腹皮	husk of betel nut 檳榔|槟榔[bing1 lang5]
大腿	thigh
大腿襪	thigh highs
大膽	brazen; audacious; outrageous
大臣	chancellor (of a monarchy); cabinet minister
大自然	nature (the natural world)
大致	more or less; roughly; approximately
大舅哥	(coll.) wife's older brother
大舅子	(coll.) wife's older brother
大興	to go in for something in a big way; to undertake on a large scale
大興區	Daxing, a district of Beijing
大興問罪之師	to launch a punitive campaign; to condemn scathingly
大興土木	to carry out large scale construction
大興安嶺地區	Daxing'anling, prefecture in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
大興安嶺山脈	Daxing'anling mountain range in northwest Heilongjiang province
大興機場	Beijing Daxing International Airport (PKX), nicknamed 海星機場|海星机场[hai3 xing1 ji1 chang3] because its terminal looks like a huge starfish
大舉	(do sth) on a large scale
大舌頭	(coll.) lisp; one who lisps
大般涅槃經	(Buddhism) Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra, aka the Nirvana Sutra, of which two major Chinese translations are extant, influential in the development of East Asian Buddhism
大舵手	the Great Helmsman (Mao Zedong)
大英	Daying county in Suining 遂寧|遂宁[Sui4 ning2], Sichuan; Great Britain
大英博物館	British Museum
大英國協	British Commonwealth of Nations (Tw)
大英帝國	British Empire
大英縣	Daying, a county in Suining City 遂寧市|遂宁市[Sui4 ning2 Shi4], Sichuan
大英聯合王國	United Kingdom
大茴香	Chinese anise; star anise
大草原	prairie; savanna
大草鶥	(bird species of China) giant babax (Pterorhinus waddelli)
大草鶯	(bird species of China) Chinese grassbird (Graminicola striatus)
大荔縣	Dali, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
大菱鮃	turbot
大葉性肺炎	lobar pneumonia
大葦鶯	(bird species of China) great reed warbler (Acrocephalus arundinaceus)
大蒜	garlic
大蓋帽	peaked cap; service cap; visor cap
大蔥	leek; Chinese onion
大蕭條	the Great Depression (1929-c. 1939)
大藏經	Tripitaka Koreana, Buddhist scriptures carved on 81,340 wooden tablets and housed in the Haein Temple 海印寺[Hai3 yin4 si4] in South Gyeongsang province of South Korea
大虎頭蜂	Asian giant hornet (Vespa mandarinia)
大處著眼，小處著手	think of the big picture, start with the little things (idiom)
大號	(music) tuba; (of clothes, print etc) large size; large format
大蛇丸	Orochimaru, Japanese folktale hero
大蝦	prawn; (Internet slang) expert; whiz
大融爐	melting pot
大蟲	tiger
大蠑螈	Chinese giant salamander (Andrias davidianus davidianus)
大行其道	rampant; very popular
大街	street; main street
大街小巷	great streets and small alleys (idiom); everywhere in the city
大衛	(name) David
大衛·尼爾	Alexandra David-Néel (1868-1969), Belgian-French explorer and writer who traveled in Tibet in the 1920s
大衛·米利班德	David Miliband (1965-), UK politician
大衛·艾登堡	David Attenborough (1926–), British naturalist and broadcaster
大衛營和約	the Camp David agreement of 1978 brokered by President Jimmy Carter between Israel and Egypt
大衣	overcoat; topcoat; cloak
大補帖	tonic; healthy concoction; (fig.) just what the doctor ordered
大西	Ōnishi (Japanese surname)
大西國	Atlantis
大西庇阿	Scipio Africanus (235-183 BC), Roman general and statesman
大西洋	Atlantic Ocean
大西洋中脊	Atlantic mid-ocean ridge
大西洋國	Historical name for Portugal during the Qing dynasty
大西洋洋中脊	Atlantic mid-ocean ridge
大要	abstract; gist; main points
大規模	large scale; extensive; wide scale
大規模殺傷性武器	weapon of mass destruction
大觀區	Daguan, a district of Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
大觀園	Prospect Garden
大角星	Arcturus (brightest star in the constellation Boötes 牧夫座[Mu4 fu1 zuo4])
大解	to defecate; to empty one's bowels
大言	to exaggerate; to boast
大言不慚	to boast shamelessly; to talk big
大計	large scale program of lasting importance
大話骰	liar's dice (dice game)
大調	(music) major key
大談	to harangue; to yak
大談特談	to keep on talking about
大謠	high-profile rumormonger (esp. on a microblog)
大變	huge changes
大豆	soybean
大豐區	Dafeng, a district of Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
大象	elephant
大費周章	to take great pains; to go to a lot of trouble
大賣場	hypermarket; large warehouse-like self-service retail store
大賤賣	to sell at a big discount
大賽	grand contest
大赦	amnesty; general pardon
大赦國際	Amnesty International
大起大落	(of market prices etc) to rapidly fluctuate (idiom); volatile
大足區	Dazu, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
大跌	large fall
大跌市	(HK) stock market crash; major market downturn
大跌眼鏡	(fig.) to be astounded
大路	avenue
大路貨	staple goods
大踏步	in big strides; (fig.) in giant steps
大躍進	Great Leap Forward (1958-1960), Mao's attempt to modernize China's economy, which resulted in economic devastation, and millions of deaths from famine caused by misguided policies
大軍	army; main forces
大軍區	PLA military region
大軸戲	last item on a program (theater)
大轉	to turn left (Shanghainese)
大辟	(literary) death sentence; decapitation
大農場	ranch
大逃港	exodus to Hong Kong (from mainland China, 1950s-1970s)
大逆不道	disgraceful (of behavior that is unfilial, rebellious or otherwise in grave breach of the norms of society)
大通區	Datong, a district of Huainan City 淮南市[Huai2 nan2 Shi4], Anhui
大通回族土族自治縣	Datong Hui and Tu Autonomous County, in Xining City 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4], Qinghai
大連外國語大學	Dalian University of Foreign Languages
大連市	Dalian, sub-provincial city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
大連理工大學	Dalian University of Technology
大進大出	large-scale import and export
大運	World University Games (formerly "Universiade") (abbr. for 大學生運動會|大学生运动会[Da4 xue2 sheng1 Yun4 dong4 hui4])
大運河	the Grand Canal, 1800 km from Beijing to Hangzhou, built starting from 486 BC
大過	serious mistake; major demerit
大過年	Chinese New Year
大道	main street; avenue
大道具	(theater) set prop (desk, chairs etc)
大道理	major principle; general truth; sermon (reproof)
大選	general election
大邑縣	Dayi, a county in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
大邱	Daegu, a city in South Korea
大部	the greater part; the majority; most
大部分	the greater part; the majority; most; Taiwan pr. [da4bu4fen4]
大部制	super-ministry system (reform aimed at streamlining government department functions)
大都	Dadu, capital of China during the Yuan Dynasty (1280-1368), modern day Beijing
大都市	metropolis; large city; megacity
大都會	major city; metropolis; metropolitan
大醇小疵	great despite minor blemishes; a rough diamond
大野	Ōno (Japanese surname and place name)
大野狼	big bad wolf
大量	great amount; large quantity; bulk
大量生產	to mass-produce; mass production
大金背啄木鳥	(bird species of China) buff-spotted flameback (Chrysocolaptes lucidus)
大釜	cauldron
大鋼琴	grand piano
大錘	sledgehammer
大錢	large sum of money; old Chinese type of coin of high denomination
大錯	blunder
大錯特錯	to be gravely mistaken (idiom)
大鍋	a big wok; cauldron
大鍋飯	meal cooked in a large pot; communal meal
大鍵琴	a harpsichord
大長今	Dae Jang Geum, a 2003 Korean historical drama TV series
大長嘴地鶇	(bird species of China) long-billed thrush (Zoothera monticola)
大長腿	(coll.) (a person's) long legs
大門	the Doors, US rock band
大開	to open wide
大開大合	(idiom) epic in scope; wide-ranging
大開眼界	(idiom) to broaden one's horizons greatly
大閘蟹	Chinese mitten crab (Eriocheir sinensis); Shanghai hairy crab
大關	strategic pass
大關縣	Daguan, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
大阪	Osaka, city in Japan
大阪府	Osaka Prefecture, Japan
大阪燒	okonomiyaki (Japanese savory pancake) in the Kansai or Osaka 大阪[Da4 ban3] style
大阮	daruan or bass lute, like pipa 琵琶 and zhongruan 中阮 but bigger and lower range
大限	the limit; maximum; one's allocated lifespan
大限到來	to die; one's allocated lifespan is accomplished
大限臨頭	facing the end (idiom); at the end of one's life
大院	courtyard; compound
大陪審團	grand jury
大陸	mainland China (reference to the PRC)
大陸坡	continental slope (boundary of continental shelf)
大陸塊	continental plates (geology)
大陸妹	(in Taiwan, Hong Kong or Macao) girl from the mainland
大陸客	(Tw) tourist from mainland China
大陸性	continental
大陸性氣候	continental climate
大陸架	continental shelf
大陸漂移	continental drift
大隊	group; a large body of; production brigade
大隻	big
大雁	wild goose
大雁塔	Giant Wild Goose Pagoda in Xi'an
大雄	great hero; main Buddhist image (in temple)
大雄寶殿	Hall of Great Strength, main hall of a Buddhist temple containing the main image of veneration 大雄[da4 xiong2]
大雅	one of the three main divisions of the Book of Songs 詩經|诗经
大雜燴	mix-up; mish-mash; potpourri
大雜院	compound with many families living together
大難	great catastrophe
大難不死	to just escape from calamity
大難不死，必有後福	one is bound for good fortune after surviving a great disaster (proverb)
大難臨頭	to be facing imminent calamity (idiom); disaster is looming
大雨	heavy rain
大雨如注	pouring with rain; rain bucketing down
大雪	Daxue or Great Snow, 21st of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 7th-21st December
大雷	(slang) large breasts
大霧	thick fog
大青山	Daqing Mountain in Hohhot 呼和浩特[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4], Inner Mongolia
大面積	large area; (fig.) (of a problem) (occurring) on a massive scale
大韓帝國	Korean Empire, from fall of Joseon dynasty in 1897 to annexation by Japan in 1910
大韓民國	Republic of Korea (South Korea)
大韓航空	Korean Air, South Korea's main airline
大韻	rhyme group (group of characters that rhyme, in rhyme books)
大項	main item (of program)
大頭	big head; mask in the shape of a big head; the larger end of sth
大頭兵	low-ranking soldier; (by extension) low-level employee
大頭照	head-and-shoulders photo (esp. a formal one used in a passport, ID card etc)
大頭目	the boss
大頭貼	photo booth sticker
大頭釘	tack; thumbtack; push pin
大題小作	to cut a long story short; a brief treatment of a complicated subject
大願地藏菩薩	Kṣitigarbha Bodhisattva, the Bodhisattva of the Great Vow (to save all souls before accepting Bodhi)
大類	main type; main class; main category
大顯神通	to display one's remarkable skill or prowess
大顯身手	(idiom) fully displaying one's capabilities
大風	gale
大風吹	"The Wind Blows", a game in which one player calls out a category, all players who match it must change seats, and the person left without a seat becomes "it" (鬼[gui3])
大飯店	grand hotel; large, upscale hotel
大飽口福	to eat one's fill; to have a good meal
大飽眼福	to feast one's eyes
大餅	large flat bread
大餐	sumptuous meal; banquet
大餘縣	Dayu, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
大馬	Malaysia
大馬哈魚	chum salmon
大馬士革	Damascus, capital of Syria
大馬士革李	damson (fruit)
大駕	imperial chariot; (fig.) emperor; (polite) you
大駕光臨	we are honored by your presence
大驚	with great alarm
大驚失色	to turn pale with fright (idiom)
大驚小怪	to make a fuss about nothing (idiom)
大體	in general; more or less; in rough terms; basically; on the whole
大體上	overall; in general terms
大體老師	cadaver for dissection in training medical students
大體解剖學	(medicine) gross anatomy
大鬧	to cause havoc; to run amok
大鬧天宮	Monkey Wreaks Havoc in Heaven, story about the Monkey King Sun Wukong 孫悟空|孙悟空[Sun1 Wu4 kong1] from the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记
大魚大肉	dishes with generous amounts of meat and fish; lavish meal
大鯢	giant salamander (Andrias japonicus)
大鰈魚	turbot fish
大鱗大麻哈魚	king salmon; Chinook salmon
大鱷	lit. big crocodile; fig. major figure; big shot
大鳳頭燕鷗	(bird species of China) greater crested tern (Thalasseus bergii)
大鳴大放	(idiom) to freely air one's views; to be heard far and wide; to attract a lot of attention
大鴇	(bird species of China) great bustard (Otis tarda)
大鴻臚	minister responsible for foreign relations and court protocol in imperial China
大鵑鵙	(bird species of China) large cuckooshrike (Coracina macei)
大鵟	(bird species of China) upland buzzard (Buteo hemilasius)
大鵬	legendary giant bird
大鵬新區	Dapeng New District, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
大鵬鳥	roc (mythical bird of prey)
大鹿	moose
大麗花	dahlia (loanword)
大麥	barley
大麥克	Big Mac (McDonald's hamburger) (Tw)
大麥地	place name in Ningxia with rock carving conjectured to be a stage in the development of Chinese characters
大麥町	Dalmatian (dog breed)
大麻	hemp (Cannabis sativa); cannabis; marijuana
大麻二酚	cannabidiol (CBD)
大麻鳽	(bird species of China) Eurasian bittern (Botaurus stellaris)
大黃	rhubarb (botany)
大黃冠啄木鳥	(bird species of China) greater yellownape (Chrysophlegma flavinucha)
大黃蜂	bumblebee
大黃魚	Croceine croaker (Pseudosciaena crocea), a fish popular in Cantonese cooking
大鼓	bass drum
大鼠	rat
大齋	to fast; to abstain from food
大齋期	Lent (Christian period of forty days before Easter)
大齋節	great fast; Christian lent
大齡	older (than average in a group, at school, for marriage etc)
大齡青年	young people in their late 20s or older who are still unmarried
大𥻗子	gruel made from coarsely ground maize
天	day; sky; heaven
天上	the sky; the heavens
天上下刀子	lit. knives rain down from the sky (idiom)
天上不會掉餡餅	there is no such thing as a free lunch (idiom)
天上掉餡餅	a meat pie falls from the sky (idiom)
天下	land under heaven; the whole world; the whole of China
天下大亂	the whole country in rebellion
天下大勢	the overall state of affairs in the world (esp. in political or historical terms); the prevailing trend across the nation or empire
天下太平	the whole world at peace (idiom); peace and prosperity
天下沒有不散的筵席	all good things must come to an end (idiom)
天下烏鴉一般黑	all crows are black (idiom); evil people are bad all over the world
天下無難事，只怕有心人	(lit.) there is nothing the determined person can't accomplish (idiom)
天下第一	first under heaven; number one in the country
天下興亡，匹夫有責	The rise and fall of the nation concerns everyone (idiom). Everyone bears responsibility for the prosperity of society.
天不怕地不怕	fearing nothing in Heaven or Earth (idiom); fearless
天主	God (in Catholicism); abbr. for 天主教[Tian1 zhu3 jiao4], Catholicism
天主教	Catholicism
天主教徒	Catholic; follower of Catholicism
天主教會	the Catholic Church
天井	courtyard; atrium; opening in a roof
天亮	to grow light (at daybreak)
天人	Man and Heaven; celestial being
天人合一	oneness of heaven and humanity
天人感應	interactions between heaven and mankind (Han Dynasty doctrine)
天仙	immortal (esp. female); deity; fairy
天低吳楚，眼空無物	the sky hangs low over the Yangtze, empty as far as the eye can see (idiom); nothing to see to the broad horizon
天作之合	a match made in heaven (idiom)
天使	angel
天使報喜節	Annunciation (Christian festival on 25th March); Lady day
天使投資	angel investment
天使投資人	angel investor
天候	weather
天倫	family bonds; ethical family relations
天倫之樂	family love and joy; domestic bliss
天價	extremely expensive; sky-high price
天元區	Tianyuan, a district of Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
天兒	the weather
天兔座	Lepus (constellation)
天全縣	Tianquan, a county in Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
天公	heaven; lord of heaven
天公不作美	Heaven is not cooperating (idiom)
天公作美	Heaven is cooperating (idiom)
天公地道	absolutely fair and reasonable (idiom); equitable
天兵	celestial soldier; (old) imperial troops
天兵天將	celestial troops and generals (idiom); fig. superior forces
天冬氨酸	aspartic acid (Asp), an amino acid
天冬苯丙二肽酯	aspartame C14H18N2O (artificial sweetener)
天冬酰胺	asparagine (Asn), an amino acid
天冷	it's cold (weather)
天分	natural gift; talent
天剛亮	daybreak
天南地北	(idiom) far apart; (idiom) from different places; from all over
天台	Mt Tiantai near Shaoxing 紹興|绍兴 in Zhejiang, the center of Tiantai Buddhism 天台宗
天台宗	Tiantai school of Buddhism
天台山	Mt Tiantai near Shaoxing 紹興|绍兴[Shao4 xing1] in Zhejiang, the center of Tiantai Buddhism 天台宗[Tian1 tai2 zong1]
天台縣	Tiantai, a county in Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
天各一方	(of relatives or friends) to live far apart from each other
天后	Tin Hau, Empress of Heaven, another name for the goddess Matsu 媽祖|妈祖[Ma1 zu3]
天后站	Tin Hau MTR station (Eastern District, Hong Kong Island)
天呀	Heavens!; My goodness!
天命	Mandate of Heaven; destiny; fate
天和	(mahjong) heavenly hand; a hand that is completed by the dealer on their first draw
天啊	good heavens!; oh my God!
天問	Tianwen, or Questions to Heaven, a long poem by Chu Yuan 屈原[Qu1 Yuan2]
天問一號	Tianwen-1, Chinese mission to put a robotic rover on Mars launched in 2020
天國	Kingdom of Heaven
天地	heaven and earth; world; scope
天地懸隔	lit. a gulf between heaven and earth (idiom)
天地會	Tiandihui (Chinese fraternal organization)
天地玄黃	first line of the Thousand Character Classic 千字文[Qian1 zi4 wen2]
天地良心	in all honesty; truth to tell
天坑	sinkhole
天城文	Devanagari alphabet used in India and Nepal
天堂	paradise; heaven
天塹	natural moat
天壇	Temple of Heaven (in Beijing)
天壇座	Ara (constellation)
天壤之別	(lit.) the difference between heaven and earth (idiom)
天外	abbr. for 天津外國語大學|天津外国语大学[Tian1 jin1 Wai4 guo2 yu3 Da4 xue2]
天外來客	visitors from outer space
天大	gargantuan; as big as the sky; enormous
天天	every day
天妒英才	heaven is jealous of heroic genius (idiom); the great have great hardship to contend with
天婦羅	tempura (loanword from Japanese)
天子	the (rightful) emperor
天孫娘娘	Goddess of Fertility
天安門	Tiananmen Gate, entrance of the Imperial City in Beijing
天安門廣場	Tiananmen Square
天安門開了	pants fly is down; the barn door is open
天宮	Temple in Heaven (e.g. of the Jade Emperor)
天寒地凍	(idiom) bitterly cold; frigid
天寧區	Tianning, a district of Changzhou City 常州市[Chang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
天尊	(honorific appellation of a deity)
天山	Tian Shan, mountain range straddling the border between China and Kyrgyzstan
天山區	Tianshan, a district of Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
天峨縣	Tian'e, a county in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
天峻縣	Tianjun, a county in Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
天崩地裂	heaven falls and earth rends (idiom); rocked by a major disaster
天差地別	(idiom) poles apart; as different as can be
天差地遠	poles apart (idiom); entirely different
天帝	God of heaven; Celestial emperor
天干	the 10 heavenly stems 甲[jia3], 乙[yi3], 丙[bing3], 丁[ding1], 戊[wu4], 己[ji3], 庚[geng1], 辛[xin1], 壬[ren2], 癸[gui3], used cyclically in the calendar and as ordinal numbers I, II etc
天平	scales (to weigh things)
天平動	(astronomy) libration
天年	natural life span
天幸	providential good luck; a narrow escape
天底	(astronomy) nadir
天底下	in this world; under the sun
天府	Heavenly province (epithet of Sichuan, esp. area around Chengdu)
天府之國	(idiom) land of plenty (usu. used in reference to Sichuan)
天庭	middle of the forehead; imperial court; heaven
天心	center of the sky; will of heaven; will of the Gods
天心區	Tianxin, a district of Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
天性	nature; innate tendency
天意	providence; the Will of Heaven
天成	as if made by heaven
天才	talent; gift; genius
天擇	natural selection
天敵	predator; natural enemy
天數	number of days; fate; destiny
天文	astronomy
天文台	astronomical observatory
天文單位	astronomical unit (AU)
天文學	astronomy
天文學大成	the Almagest by Ptolemy
天文學家	astronomer
天文數字	(idiom) astronomical figure
天文望遠鏡	astronomical telescope
天文館	planetarium
天方	(old) Arabia; Arabian
天方夜譚	The Arabian Nights (classic story)
天旋地轉	the sky spins, the earth goes round (idiom); giddy with one's head spinning
天旱	drought
天明	dawn; daybreak
天星碼頭	Star Ferry terminal, Hong Kong
天時	the time; the right time; weather conditions
天時地利人和	the time is right, geographical and social conditions are favorable (idiom); a good time to go to war
天曉得	Heaven knows!
天書	imperial edict; heavenly book (superstition)
天有不測風雲，人有旦夕禍福	fortune as unpredictable as the weather, every day may bring fortune or calamity (idiom); sth unexpected may happen at any moment
天朝	Celestial Empire, tributary title conferred on imperial China
天柱	pillars supporting heaven
天柱縣	Tianzhu, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
天條	heavenly decree; divine commandment; (fig.) unbreakable taboo; absolute edict (often humorous or sarcastic)
天梯	stairway to heaven; high mountain road
天棚	ceiling; awning
天樞	Dubhe; Alpha Ursae Majoris in the Big Dipper
天橋	Tianqiao district of Jinan city 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 shi4], Shandong
天橋區	Tianqiao, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
天機	mystery known only to heaven (archaic); inscrutable twist of fate
天機不可泄漏	lit. mysteries of heaven must not be revealed (idiom); must not be revealed
天機不可泄露	lit. mysteries of heaven must not be revealed (idiom); must not be revealed
天權	Megrez; Delta Ursae Majoris in the Big Dipper
天次	number of days of sth taking place (e.g. days of heavy pollution)
天殺的	Goddam!; goddamn; wretched
天氣	weather
天氣預報	weather forecast
天水市	Tianshui, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
天水碧	light cyan
天池	"heavenly lake", lake situated on a mountain
天河	Milky Way
天河區	Tianhe, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
天津	Tianjin municipality (short name 津[Jin1])
天津外國語大學	Tianjin Foreign Studies University
天津大學	Tianjin University
天津市	Tianjin municipality (short name 津[Jin1])
天津會議專條	Tianjin agreement of 1885 between Li Hongzhang 李鴻章|李鸿章[Li3 Hong2 zhang1] and ITŌ Hirobumi 伊藤博文[Yi1 teng2 Bo2 wen2] to pull Qing and Japanese troops out of Korea
天津條約	Treaty of Tianjin of 1858, a sequence of unequal treaties 不平等條約|不平等条约 between Russia, USA, England, France and Qing China
天津環球金融中心	Tianjin World Financial Center, skyscraper a.k.a. the Tianjin Tower or Jin Tower
天津衛	(Ming dynasty) Tianjin garrison; historical name of Tianjin 天津[Tian1 jin1]
天涯	the other end of the world; a faraway place
天涯何處無芳草	there are plenty more fish in the sea (idiom)
天涯區	Tianya, a district of Sanya City 三亞市|三亚市[San1 ya4 Shi4], Hainan
天涯海角	Tianya Haijiao, tourism area on the south coast of Hainan, 24 km west of Sanya 三亞|三亚[San1 ya4]
天涯若比鄰	far-flung realms as next door (idiom)
天淵	distance between two poles; poles apart
天溝	(rainwater) gutter
天演	natural change; evolution (early translation, since replaced by 進化|进化)
天演論	the theory of evolution (early translation, since replaced by 進化論|进化论)
天漢	the Milky Way
天災	natural disaster
天災人禍	natural calamities and man-made disasters (idiom)
天災地孽	catastrophes and unnatural phenomena; Heaven-sent warnings
天無絕人之路	Heaven never bars one's way (idiom); don't despair and you will find a way through.
天然	natural
天然呆	(loanword from Japanese "tennen boke") space cadet; muddleheaded
天然橡膠	natural rubber
天然毒素	natural toxin
天然氣	natural gas
天然纖維	natural fiber
天然鈾	natural uranium
天煞孤星	bane of others' existence
天燈	sky lantern (miniature hot-air balloon used during festivals)
天燕座	Apus (constellation)
天爐座	Fornax (constellation)
天父	Heavenly Father
天牛	Longhorn beetle
天狼星	Sirius, a double star in constellation Canis Major 大犬座
天王	emperor; god; Hong Xiuquan's self-proclaimed title
天王星	Uranus (planet)
天珠	dzi bead, a type of stone bead highly prized in Tibet for many centuries, reputed to hold supernatural power
天球	celestial sphere
天球赤道	celestial equator
天理	Heaven's law; the natural order of things
天理教	Tenrikyo, a Japanese religion
天理難容	Heaven cannot tolerate this (idiom); intolerable behavior
天琴座	Lyra (constellation)
天琴星座	Lyra, constellation containing Vega 織女星|织女星[Zhi1 nu:3 xing1]
天璇	Merak; Beta Ursae Majoris in the Big Dipper
天璣	Phecda; Gamma Ursae Majoris in the Big Dipper
天生	nature; disposition; innate
天生一對	a match made in heaven; a perfect couple
天生的一對	couple who were made for each other
天生麗質	(idiom) to be naturally beautiful; to be born beautiful
天界	heaven
天癸	(TCM) menstruation; period
天皇	Heavenly Sovereign, one of the three legendary sovereigns 三皇[san1 huang2]
天皰瘡	(medicine) pemphigus
天真	naive; innocent; artless
天真爛漫	(idiom) innocent and unaffected
天眼	nickname of the FAST radio telescope (in Guizhou)
天祝藏族自治縣	Tianzhu Tibetan Autonomous County, in Wuwei City 武威市[Wu3 wei1 Shi4], Gansu
天神	god; deity
天祿	auspicious sculpted animal, usu. a unicorn or deer with a long tail
天秤	balance scale; Taiwan pr. [tian1 ping2]
天秤座	Libra (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
天空	sky
天穿日	a Hakka festival held on the 20th day of the first lunar month
天窗	hatchway; skylight; sun roof
天竺	the Indian subcontinent (esp. in Tang or Buddhist context)
天竺牡丹	dahlia
天竺葵	geranium (Pelargonium hortorum)
天竺鼠	guinea pig; cavy
天等縣	Tiandeng, a county in Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
天箭座	Sagitta (constellation)
天篷	canopy
天籟	sounds of nature
天籟之音	extraordinarily beautiful music
天經地義	lit. heaven's law and earth's principle (idiom); fig. right and proper
天網	Skynet (nationwide video surveillance system in China)
天網恢恢	lit. heaven's net has wide meshes, but nothing escapes it (idiom, from Laozi 73)
天網恢恢，疏而不漏	lit. heaven's net has wide meshes, but nothing escapes it (idiom, from Laozi 73)
天線	antenna; aerial
天線寶寶	Teletubbies
天罡	(old) the Big Dipper
天羅地網	inescapable net (idiom); trap; dragnet
天翻地覆	sky and the earth turning upside down (idiom); fig. complete confusion
天老兒	albino (human)
天職	vocation; duty; mission in life
天臺	rooftop
天舟座	Argo (constellation, now divided into Carina 船底座 and Puppis 船尾座)
天良	conscience
天色	color of the sky; time of day, as indicated by the color of the sky
天花	smallpox; ceiling; stamen of corn
天花亂墜	(lit.) a deluge of heavenly flowers (idiom)
天花板	ceiling (of a room)
天花病毒	variola virus
天荒地老	(idiom) until the end of time
天葬	sky burial (Tibetan funeral practice)
天藍	sky blue
天藍色	azure
天螻	mole cricket; slang word for agricultural pest Gryllotalpa
天蟹座	Cancer (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
天蠍	Scorpio (constellation)
天蠍座	Scorpio or Scorpius (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
天行赤眼	acute contagious conjunctivitis (TCM)
天衣無縫	lit. seamless heavenly clothes (idiom); fig. flawless
天要下雨，娘要嫁人	(lit.) the heavens will rain, and widowed mothers will remarry (saying)
天親	one's flesh and blood
天誅	heavenly punishment; king's punishment
天課	zakat
天譴	the wrath of Heaven; imperial displeasure
天象	meteorological or astronomical phenomenon (e.g. rainbow or eclipse)
天象儀	planetarium projector
天貓座	Lynx (constellation)
天貝	(loanword) tempeh
天資	innate talent; gift; flair
天賜	bestowed by heaven
天賦	gift; innate skill
天賦異稟	extraordinary talent; exceptionally gifted
天趣	natural charm (of writings, works of art etc)
天路歷程	Pilgrim's Progress, 1678 novel by John Bunyan (first Chinese translation 1851)
天車	gantry traveling crane
天造地設	lit. made by Heaven and arranged by Earth(idiom); ideal; perfect
天道	natural law; heavenly law; weather (dialect)
天道酬勤	Heaven rewards the diligent. (idiom)
天邊	horizon; ends of the earth; remotest places
天那水	(loanword) paint thinner
天量	a staggering number; a mind-boggling amount
天鎮縣	Tianzhen, a county in Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
天長地久	enduring while the world lasts (idiom); eternal
天長市	Tianchang, a county-level city in Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
天長日久	after a long time (idiom)
天門	Tianmen sub-prefecture level city in Hubei
天門冬	asparagus
天門冬科	Asparagaceae, family of flowering plants which includes asparagus
天門市	Tianmen sub-prefecture level city in Hubei
天際	horizon
天際線	skyline; horizon
天險	a natural stronghold
天雨路滑	roads are slippery due to rain (idiom)
天電	atmospherics; static
天靈蓋	crown of the head
天青石	lapis lazuli
天頂	zenith
天順	Tianshun Emperor, reign name of eighth Ming Emperor 朱祁鎮|朱祁镇[Zhu1 Qi2 zhen4] (1427-1464), reigned 1457-1464, temple name Yingzong 英宗[Ying1 zong1]
天頭	the upper margin of a page
天香國色	divine fragrance, national grace (idiom); an outstanding beauty
天馬	(mythology) celestial horse; fine horse; Ferghana horse
天馬行空	like a heavenly steed, soaring across the skies (idiom)
天體	celestial body; nude body
天體主義	nudism
天體光譜學	astronomical spectroscopy
天體力學	celestial mechanics
天體演化學	cosmogony
天體物理	astrophysics
天體物理學	astrophysics
天體物理學家	astrophysicist
天高皇帝遠	lit. the sky is high and the emperor is far away (idiom)
天魔	demonic; devil
天鴿座	Columba (constellation)
天鵝	swan
天鵝座	Cygnus (constellation)
天鵝湖	Swan Lake
天鵝絨	velvet; swan's down
天鶴座	Grus (constellation)
天鷹座	Aquila (constellation)
天麻	Gastrodia elata (botany)
天黑	to get dark; dusk
天龍人	(Tw) (slang) privileged people oblivious to the hardships of others; Taipei residents or urban dwellers who consider themselves superior to others (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 天竜人 "Tenryūjin", an arrogant, privileged group in the manga "One Piece")
天龍八部	Demigods and Semidevils, wuxia novel by Jin Yong 金庸[Jin1 Yong1] and its TV and screen adaptations
天龍國	(Tw) (slang) nickname for Taipei (implying that the residents are privileged, having access to abundant resources)
天龍座	Draco (constellation)
太	highest; greatest; too (much)
太上	title of respect for taoists
太上皇	Taishang Huang; Retired Emperor; father of the reigning emperor
太乙金華宗旨	The Secret of the Golden Flower, a classic of Chinese Taoism published in the late 17th century
太保	Taibao or Taipao city in Chiayi County 嘉義縣|嘉义县[Jia1 yi4 Xian4], west Taiwan
太保市	Taibao or Taipao City in Chiayi County 嘉義縣|嘉义县[Jia1 yi4 Xian4], west Taiwan
太倉市	Taicang, a county-level city in Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
太僕	ministerial title in imperial China (in the Qin and Han dynasties, the minister responsible for the imperial stables)
太僕寺	Court of imperial stud, office originally charged with horse breeding
太僕寺卿	Minister of imperial stud, originally charged with horse breeding
太僕寺旗	Taibus Banner in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
太公	great-grandfather; (old) grandfather; father
太公兵法	alternative name for 六韜|六韬[Liu4 tao1], one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China
太公釣魚，願者上鉤	Jiang Ziya is fishing, if you want take the hook (idiom, refers to early sage 姜子牙 fishing with no bait and the hook above the water); to put one's head in the noose
太初	the absolute beginning
太半	more than half; a majority; most
太原市	Taiyuan, prefecture-level city and capital of Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
太古	immemorial
太古代	Archaeozoic (geological era before 2500m years ago)
太古宙	Archaean (geological eon before 2500m years ago)
太古洋行	Butterfield and Swire (Hong Kong bank)
太史	two-character surname Taishi
太史令	grand scribe (official position in many Chinese states up to the Han)
太史公	Grand Scribe, the title by which Sima Qian 司馬遷|司马迁[Si1 ma3 Qian1] refers to himself in Records of the Historian 史記|史记[Shi3 ji4]
太后	Empress Dowager
太和區	Taihe, a district of Jinzhou City 錦州市|锦州市[Jin3 zhou1 Shi4], Liaoning
太和殿	Hall of Supreme Harmony, the largest of the three halls that constitute the heart of the Outer Court of the Forbidden City 紫禁城[Zi3 jin4 cheng2]
太和縣	Taihe, a county in Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
太太	married woman; Mrs.; Madam
太夫人	(old) dowager
太好了	very good
太妃糖	(loanword) toffee; taffy
太妹	girl delinquent; tomboy; schoolgirl tough
太婆	great-grandmother
太子	crown prince
太子丹	Prince Dan of Yan (–226 BC), commissioned the attempted assassination of King Ying Zheng 嬴政[Ying2 Zheng4] of Qin 秦[Qin2] (later the First Emperor 秦始皇[Qin2 Shi3 huang2]) by Jing Ke 荊軻|荆轲[Jing1 Ke1] in 227 BC
太子十三峰	thirteen peaks of Meili Snow Mountains in Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
太子太保	tutor to the crown prince (in imperial China)
太子河區	Taizihe, a district of Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
太子港	Port-au-Prince, capital of Haiti
太子黨	princelings, descendants of senior communist officials (PRC)
太學	Imperial College of Supreme Learning, established in 124 BC, and the highest educational institute in ancient China until the Sui Dynasty
太守	governor of a province
太宗	posthumous name given to the second emperor of a dynasty
太師	imperial tutor
太常	minister of ceremonies in imperial China
太平	peace and security
太平公主	Princess Taiping (c. 665-713), Tang Dynasty princess, politically powerful and known for her beauty
太平區	Taiping, a district of Fuxin City 阜新市[Fu4 xin1 Shi4], Liaoning
太平天國	Taiping Heavenly Kingdom (1851-1864)
太平天國起義	Taiping Rebellion (1850–1864), a massive rebellion in southern China against the Qing Dynasty, led by Hong Xiuquan 洪秀全[Hong2 Xiu4 quan2], who sought to establish the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom 太平天國|太平天国[Tai4 ping2 Tian1 guo2], resulting in one of the deadliest conflicts in history with millions of casualties
太平廣記	Extensive records of the Taiping era (978), fictional history edited by Li Fang 李昉
太平御覽	Imperial Readings of the Taiping Era, general Song dynasty encyclopedia compiled during 977-983 under Li Fang 李昉[Li3 Fang3], 1000 scrolls
太平洋	Pacific Ocean
太平洋戰爭	Pacific War between Japan and the US, 1941-1945
太平洋潛鳥	(bird species of China) Pacific loon (Gavia pacifica)
太平洋聯合鐵路	Union Pacific Railroad
太平洋週邊	Pacific Rim
太平盛世	peace and prosperity (idiom)
太平紳士	Justice of the Peace (JP)
太平門	emergency exit
太平間	mortuary; morgue
太平鳥	(bird species of China) Bohemian waxwing (Bombycilla garrulus)
太康縣	Taikang, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
太極	the Absolute or Supreme Ultimate, the source of all things according to some interpretations of Chinese mythology
太極劍	a kind of traditional Chinese sword-play
太極圖	diagram of cosmological scheme; Yin-Yang symbol ☯
太極圖說	philosophical book by Song dynasty scholar Zhou Dunyi 周敦頤|周敦颐[Zhou1 Dun1 yi2], starting from an interpretation of the Book of Changes
太極拳	shadowboxing or Taiji, T'aichi or T'aichichuan
太歲	Tai Sui, God of the year
太液池	area to the west of the Forbidden City, now divided into Zhongnanhai and Beihai
太湖	Lake Tai near Wuxi City 無錫|无锡[Wu2 xi1], bordering on Jiangsu and Zhejiang, one of China's largest freshwater lakes
太湖縣	Taihu, a county in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
太爺	(respectful for) one's grandfather; sb's father; older people
太爺爺	(coll.) father's father's father; paternal great-grandfather
太牢	(in ancient times) sacrificial animal (cow, sheep or pig)
太田	Ohta or Ōta (Japanese surname)
太白	Taibai County in Baoji 寶雞|宝鸡[Bao3 ji1], Shaanxi; Venus
太白山	Mt Taibai in Shaanxi
太白星	Venus (planet)
太白粉	cornstarch; potato starch
太白縣	Taibai, a county in Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
太監	court eunuch; palace eunuch
太祖	Great Ancestor (posthumous title, e.g. for the founder of a dynasty)
太空	outer space
太空人	astronaut
太空探索	space exploration
太空服	spacesuit
太空梭	space shuttle
太空步	moonwalk (dance)
太空漫步	space walk
太空站	space station
太空舞步	moonwalk (dance)
太空船	spaceship
太空艙	space capsule; ejection capsule (cabin)
太空行走	spacewalk
太空遊	space tourism
太空飛船	Space Shuttle, US spacecraft system (1981-2011)
太虛	Taixu (famed Buddhist monk, 1890-1947)
太行山	Taihang Mountains on the border between Hebei and Shanxi
太谷區	Taigu, a district of Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
太過	excessively; too
太醫	imperial physician
太長不看	(Internet slang) TL;DR
太陰	the Moon (esp. in Daoism)
太陽	sun; sunlight; sunshine
太陽光	sunlight
太陽光柱	solar pillar; sun pillar (atmospheric optics)
太陽報	The Sun (the name of various newspapers, notably in the UK and in Hong Kong)
太陽從西邊出來	lit. the sun rises in the west (idiom); fig. hell freezes over
太陽微系統公司	Sun Microsystems
太陽日	solar day
太陽曬屁股	to have overslept; Rise and shine!
太陽活動	sunspot activity; solar variation
太陽照在桑乾河上	"The Sun Shines over the Sanggan River", socialist realist novel by Ding Ling 丁玲[Ding1 Ling2], for which she was awarded the 1951 Stalin Prize for Literature
太陽燈	sunlamp
太陽眼鏡	sunglasses
太陽神	Sun God; Apollo
太陽神經叢	solar plexus chakra
太陽神計劃	the Apollo project
太陽穴	temple (on the sides of human head)
太陽窗	sun window; sun roof (of car)
太陽窩	temple (on the sides of human head)
太陽系	solar system
太陽翼	solar panel
太陽能	solar energy
太陽能板	solar panel
太陽能電池	solar cell
太陽花	sunflower (Helianthus annuus); rose moss (Portulaca grandiflora)
太陽蛋	fried egg; sunny-side-up egg
太陽輪	solar plexus chakra
太陽鏡	sunglasses
太陽雨	sunshower
太陽電池	solar cell
太陽電池板	solar panel
太陽風	solar wind
太陽風暴	solar storm
太陽餅	suncake (small round cake made with flaky pastry and a maltose filling, originally from Taichung, Taiwan)
太陽黑子	sunspot
太陽黑子周	sunspot cycle
太魯閣	Taroko National Park in Hualien County 花蓮縣|花莲县[Hua1 lian2 Xian4], Taiwan
太魯閣族	Taroko, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
夫	(classical) this, that; he, she, they; (exclamatory final particle)
夫人	lady; madam; Mrs.
夫君	(honorific) husband
夫唱婦隨	fig. the man sings and the woman follows; fig. marital harmony
夫妻	husband and wife; married couple
夫妻反目	man and wife fall out (idiom, from Book of Changes); marital strife
夫妻店	family-run shop
夫妻相	similarity in features of an old couple
夫妻肺片	popular Sichuan cold dish made of thinly sliced beef and beef offal
夫婦	a (married) couple; husband and wife
夫婿	(literary) husband
夫子	Master (old form of address for teachers, scholars)
夫子自道	appearing to be praising others while actually praising yourself
夫家	husband's family (traditionally where the wife moves into)
夫役	corvee; laborer
夫權	authority over the household
夫餘	Pu'yo, Korean Buyeo (c. 200 BC-494 AD), ancient kingdom in northeast frontier region of China
夬	decisive
夭	(bound form) to die prematurely (also pr. [yao3])
夭亡	to die young
夭壽	to die young; (Tw) (curse word) drop dead; go to hell
夭折	to die young or prematurely; to come to a premature end
夭殤	to die young
央	center; end; to beg
央中	to ask for mediation; to request sb to act as a go-between
央人	to ask sb (to do sth); to entreat
央企	centrally-managed state-owned enterprise (PRC), abbr. for 中央企業|中央企业[zhong1 yang1 qi3 ye4]
央及	to ask; to plead; to beg
央告	to implore; to plead; to ask earnestly
央求	to implore; to plead; to ask earnestly
央行	central bank (abbr. for 中央銀行|中央银行[zhong1 yang1 yin2 hang2])
央視	China Central Television (CCTV), abbr. for 中國中央電視台|中国中央电视台[Zhong1 guo2 Zhong1 yang1 Dian4 shi4 tai2]
央託	to request assistance; to ask sb to do sth
央財	Central University of Finance and Economics, Beijing
夯	to ram; to tamp; a rammer; a tamper; excellent; exceptionally good
夯具	rammer; tamper
夯土	rammed earth
夯土機	rammer; tamper
夯實	to tamp; to ram (earth etc)
夯歌	rammers' work chant
夯漢	carrier who carries heavy loads on his shoulder (dialect)
夯砣	rammer; tamper
失	to lose; to miss; to fail
失主	owner of sth lost or stolen
失之交臂	to miss narrowly; to let a great opportunity slip
失之東隅，收之桑榆	to lose at sunrise but gain at sunset (idiom)
失之毫厘，謬以千里	a tiny lapse can lead to a huge mistake (idiom); a minor discrepancy leading to enormous losses
失之毫釐，差之千里	a tiny lapse can lead to a huge mistake (idiom); a minor discrepancy leading to enormous losses
失之毫釐，差以千里	a tiny lapse can lead to a huge mistake (idiom); a minor discrepancy leading to enormous losses
失事	(of a plane, ship etc) to have an accident (plane crash, shipwreck, vehicle collision etc)
失信	to break a promise
失信被執行人	(law) judgement defaulter (person who has failed to fulfill obligations set forth in a written court judgement, such as paying compensation to sb, despite having the means to do so)
失修	disrepair
失傳	(of skills etc) to die out; lost; extinct
失儀	discourteous; failure of etiquette
失利	to lose; to suffer defeat
失勢	to lose power and influence
失去	to lose
失去後勁	to peter out; to lose momentum; to lose steam
失口	slip of the tongue; indiscretion; to blurt out a secret
失和	disharmony; to become estranged
失單	list of lost or stolen articles
失地	to lose territory; lost territory
失墜	loss
失婚	to lose one's spouse (through marriage failure or bereavement)
失學	unable to go to school; an interruption to one's education
失守	(military) (of a city etc) to fall into enemy hands
失宜	inappropriate; improper
失察	to fail in observing or supervising; to miss; to let sth slip through
失實	to give a false picture of the situation
失寫症	agraphia
失寵	to lose favor; in disfavor; disgraced
失常	not normal; an aberration
失序	to get into disarray; to get out of whack
失張失智	out of one's mind
失怙	to be orphaned of one's father
失恃	to lose sb one relies upon; to lose one's mother
失悔	to regret; to feel remorse
失意	disappointed; frustrated
失態	to forget one's manners; to forget oneself
失憶	to lose one's memory
失憶症	amnesia
失戀	to lose one's love; to break up (in a romantic relationship)
失手	a slip; miscalculation; unwise move
失掉	to lose; to miss
失控	to go out of control
失措	to be at a loss
失效	to fail; to lose effectiveness
失效日期	expiry date (of document)
失敗	to be defeated; to lose; to fail (e.g. experiments)
失敗主義	defeatism
失敗是成功之母	Failure is the mother of success.
失敗者	loser
失散	to lose touch with; missing; scattered
失敬	to show disrespect; I'm awfully sorry – please forgive me
失明	to lose one's eyesight; to become blind; blindness
失明症	blindness
失智	to suffer a loss of cognitive function; to develop dementia
失智症	(Tw) dementia
失望	disappointed; to lose hope; to despair
失期	late (for an appointed time)
失枕	a crick in the neck; stiff neck
失格	to overstep the rules; to go out of bounds; disqualification
失業	unemployment; to lose one's job
失業率	unemployment rate
失業者	an unemployed person
失歡	to lose favor; to become estranged
失活	(of an enzyme, microorganism, catalyst etc) to lose biological or chemical activity; to become inactivated
失準	not up to scratch; subpar; off; gone awry
失溫	to suffer hypothermia
失溫症	hypothermia
失火	to catch fire; to be on fire
失物招領	lost-and-found
失物認領	lost and found
失獨	bereaved of one's only child
失獨家庭	a family bereaved of its only child
失球	to concede a goal
失當	inappropriate; improper
失盜	to have sth stolen; to lose to theft; robbed
失真	to lack fidelity; (signal) distortion
失眠	to suffer from insomnia
失瞻	to fail to greet in timely manner
失神	absent-minded; to lose spirit; despondent
失禁	to lose control of one's bladder or bowels; incontinent
失禮	to act discourteously; forgive me (for my impropriety)
失竊	to lose by theft; to have one's property stolen
失笑	to laugh in spite of oneself; to be unable to help laughing
失策	to blunder; to miscalculate; miscalculation
失算	to miscalculate; to misjudge
失節	to be disloyal (to one's country, spouse etc); to lose one's chastity
失約	to miss an appointment
失而復得	to lose sth and then regain it (idiom)
失聯	to lose contact; to be lost
失聰	to go deaf; to lose one's hearing; deafness; hearing loss
失聲	to lose one's voice; (to cry out) involuntarily
失職	to neglect one's duty; to be guilty of dereliction of duty
失能	to become incapacitated
失色	to lose color; to turn pale
失落	to lose (sth); to drop (sth); to feel a sense of loss
失著	unwise move; to make an unwise move
失血	to lose blood; to hemorrhage; (fig.) to suffer losses (financial etc)
失血性貧血	blood loss anemia
失衡	to unbalance; an imbalance
失言	slip of the tongue; indiscretion; to blurt out a secret
失語	to let slip
失語症	aphasia or aphemia (loss of language)
失誤	lapse; mistake; to make a mistake
失調	imbalance; to become dysfunctional
失調電壓	offset voltage
失讀症	alexia
失責	breach of responsibility; failure to carry out one's duty
失足	to lose one's footing; to slip; to take a wrong step in life
失蹤	to be missing; to disappear; unaccounted for
失身	to lose one's virginity; to lose one's chastity
失身分	demeaning
失迎	failure to meet
失迷	to lose one's way; to get lost (on the road etc)
失速	(aviation) to stall
失道	(literary) to lose one's way; to get lost
失道寡助	an unjust cause finds little support (idiom, from Mencius)
失重	weightlessness
失錯	to make a careless mistake; mistake; slip-up
失陪	Excuse me, I must be leaving now.
失靈	out of order (of machine); not working properly
失面子	to lose face; to be humiliated
失風	trouble; damage; setback
失體統	lacking in propriety; bad form
失體面	to lose face
失魂	to panic
失魂落魄	(idiom) dazed; beside oneself
夷	non-Han people, esp. to the East of China; barbarians; to wipe out
夷平	to level; to raze to the ground
夷戮	to massacre
夷曠	expansive; level and broad; broad-minded
夷洲	name of an ancient barbarian country, possibly Taiwan
夷滅	to massacre; to die out
夷為平地	to level; to raze to the ground
夷然	calm
夷狄	non-Han tribes in the east and north of ancient China; barbarians
夷猶	to hesitate
夷門	the Yi gate of 大梁, capital of Wei 魏 during Warring states
夷陵區	Yiling, a district of Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
夸	used in transliteration
夸克	(particle physics) (loanword) quark
夼	low ground; hollow; depression (used in Shandong place names)
夾	to press from either side; to place in between; to sandwich
夾七夾八	completely mixed up; in a muddle
夾克	(loanword) jacket; also pr. [jia2 ke4]
夾具	clamp; fixture (machining)
夾娃娃	(coll.) to induce an abortion (Tw)
夾娃娃機	claw machine
夾子	clip; clamp; tongs
夾子音	(coll.) (neologism, attested by 2021) cutesy high-pitched voice
夾尾巴	to have one's tail between one's legs
夾層	hollow layer between two solid layers; (architecture) mezzanine
夾山國家森林公園	Jiashan National Forest Park in Shimen 石門|石门[Shi2 men2], Changde 常德[Chang2 de2], Hunan
夾山寺	Jiashan Temple, Buddhist temple in Shimen county 石門縣|石门县[Shi2 men2 xian4], Changde 常德[Chang2 de2], Hunan, the purported final home and burial place of late Ming peasant rebel leader Li Zicheng 李自成[Li3 Zi4 cheng2]
夾帶	to carry within it; to be mixed in; to slip sth in
夾心	to fill with stuffing (e.g. in cooking); stuffed
夾心族	sandwich generation
夾心餅乾	sandwich cookie
夾批	critical annotations between the lines
夾持	to clamp; tongs
夾擊	pincer attack; attack from two or more sides; converging attack
夾攻	attack from two sides; pincer movement; converging attack
夾斷	to nip (i.e. cut short); to pinch off
夾板	wooden boards used to press sth together; (medicine) splint
夾棍	leg vise (torture instrument)
夾江縣	Jiajiang, a county in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
夾生	half-cooked; (fig.) not completely done, solved, developed etc
夾生飯	half-cooked rice
夾當	crucial moment; critical time
夾盤	chuck (for a drill etc)
夾竹桃	oleander (Nerium oleander)
夾緊	to clamp; to grip
夾縫	crack; crevice
夾腳拖	flip-flops
夾腳拖鞋	flip-flops
夾襖	lined jacket; double layered jacket
夾角	angle (between two intersecting lines)
夾起尾巴	to tuck one's tail between one's legs; fig. to back down
夾道	a narrow street (lined with walls); to line the street
夾道歡迎	to line the streets in welcome
夾鉗	tongs
夾鏈袋	resealable bag; ziplock bag
夾雜	to mix together (disparate substances); to mingle; a mix
夾頭	(machinery) collet; chuck
夾餡	stuffed (of food); with filling
奄	suddenly; abruptly; hastily
奄列	omelet
奄奄一息	dying; at one's last gasp
奇	strange; odd; weird
奇事	marvel
奇亞籽	(loanword) chia seed
奇人	an eccentric; odd person; person of extraordinary talent
奇偉	singular and majestic; strange and grand
奇偶	parity; odd and even
奇偶性	parity (odd or even)
奇兵	troops appearing suddenly (in a raid or ambush)
奇函數	odd function (math.)
奇努克	Chinook (helicopter)
奇卡諾人	Chicano; Chicana; Mexican American
奇台縣	Qitai, a county in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
奇士	odd person; an eccentric
奇妙	wonderful; marvelous; intriguing; mysterious; strange
奇崛	strange and prominent
奇差	(coll.) extremely poor (in quality); shockingly bad
奇幻	fantasy (fiction)
奇形怪狀	fantastic oddities of every description (idiom); grotesquely shaped
奇彩	unexpected splendour
奇志	high aspiration
奇思妙想	an unconventional but wonderful idea
奇怪	strange; odd; to marvel
奇恥大辱	(idiom) a great humiliation; a huge embarrassment
奇才	genius
奇技	special skill; remarkable feat
奇效	wondrous effect; marvelous efficacy
奇數	odd number
奇文	remarkable or peculiar piece of writing
奇文共賞	lit. remarkable work appreciated by all (idiom); universally praised (original meaning)
奇景	wonderful scenery; amazing sight; (fig.) marvel
奇特	peculiar; unusual; queer
奇珍	a rare treasure; sth priceless and unique
奇珍異寶	rare treasure (idiom)
奇瑞	Chery (car manufacturer)
奇瓦瓦	Chihuahua, Mexico
奇異	fantastic; bizarre; odd
奇異夸克	strange quark (particle physics)
奇異果	kiwi fruit; Chinese gooseberry
奇異筆	marker (writing instrument)
奇禍	unexpected calamity; sudden disaster
奇絕	strange; rare; bizarre
奇缺	very short of (food, clean water etc); extreme shortage; deficit
奇羨	surplus; profit
奇聞	bizarre anecdote; extraordinary piece of news
奇能	special ability
奇能異士	extraordinary hero with special abilities; martial arts superhero
奇花異草	(idiom) rare or exotic flowers and plants
奇葩	exotic flower; (fig.) marvel; prodigy
奇裝異服	bizarre dress
奇襲	surprise attack; raid
奇覽	singular excursion; off the beaten track
奇觀	spectacle; impressive sight
奇解	singular solution (to a math. equation)
奇詭	strange; queer; intriguing
奇談	odd story; exotic tale; fig. ridiculous argument
奇談怪論	strange tales and absurd arguments (idiom); unreasonable remarks
奇譎	strange and deceitful; sly; treacherous
奇貨可居	rare commodity worth hoarding; object for profiteering
奇趣	quaint charm
奇蹄目	Perissodactyla
奇蹄類	Perissodactyla (odd-toed ungulates, such as horses, zebras etc)
奇蹟	miracle; wonder; marvel
奇遇	happy encounter; fortuitous meeting; adventure
奇醜	grotesque; extremely ugly; hideous
奇醜無比	extremely ugly; incomparably hideous
奇門遁甲	Qimen Dunjia, an ancient system of occult arts used for divination and strategic planning
奇麗	singularly beautiful; weird and wonderful
奇點	(astronomy, math.) singularity; also pr. [ji1dian3]
奈	used in expressions that convey frustration and futility, such as 無奈|无奈[wu2 nai4] and 莫可奈何|莫可奈何[mo4 ke3 nai4 he2] (literary)
奈何	to do something to sb; to deal with; to cope
奈及利亞	(Tw) Nigeria
奈培	neper (unit of ratio, Np)
奈曼	Naiman banner or Naiman khoshuu in Tongliao 通遼|通辽[Tong1 liao2], Inner Mongolia
奈曼旗	Naiman banner or Naiman khoshuu in Tongliao 通遼|通辽[Tong1 liao2], Inner Mongolia
奈洛比	Nairobi, capital of Kenya (Tw)
奈秒	nanosecond, ns, 10^-9 s (Tw); PRC equivalent: 納秒|纳秒[na4 miao3]
奈米	(Tw) nanometer; nano- (prefix meaning "nanoscale")
奈良	Nara (prefecture and city in Japan)
奈良時代	Nara period (710-794) in early Japanese history
奈飛	Netflix, American entertainment company
奉	to offer (tribute)
奉上	to offer
奉公	to pursue public affairs
奉公克己	self-restraint and devotion to public duties (idiom); selfless dedication
奉公守法	to carry out official duties and observe the law
奉勸	may I offer a bit of advice
奉化區	Fenghua, a district of Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
奉召	to receive orders
奉告	(honorific) to inform
奉命	to receive orders; to follow orders; to act under orders
奉天	old name for Shenyang 瀋陽|沈阳 in modern Liaoning province
奉子成婚	to marry after getting pregnant
奉承	to fawn on; to flatter; to ingratiate oneself
奉承討好	to curry favor; to get the desired outcome by flattery
奉新縣	Fengxin, a county in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
奉旨	on imperial orders
奉為圭臬	to take as a guiding principle (idiom)
奉獻	to offer respectfully; to consecrate; to dedicate
奉獻精神	spirit of devotion; dedication
奉現	offering
奉申賀敬	polite congratulations (i.e. on a greeting card)
奉祀	to worship; to pay respects to (a deity, ancestor etc)
奉節縣	Fengjie, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
奉系	Fengtian clique (of northern warlords)
奉系軍閥	Fengtian clique (of northern warlords)
奉職	devotion to duty
奉若神明	to honor sb as a God (idiom); to revere; to worship; to deify
奉行	to pursue (a course, a policy)
奉詔	to receive an imperial command
奉賢	Fengxian suburban district of Shanghai
奉賢區	Fengxian suburban district of Shanghai
奉贈	(honorific) to present; to give as a present
奉辛比克黨	Funcinpec (royalist Cambodian political party)
奉迎	(honorific) to greet; to fawn
奉送	(honorific) to give
奉還	to return with thanks; to give back (honorific)
奉陪	(honorific) to accompany; to keep sb company
奉養	to look after (elderly parents); Taiwan pr. [feng4yang4]
奎	crotch; 15th of the 28th constellations of Chinese astronomy
奎寧	quinine (loanword)
奎寧水	tonic water; quinine water
奎屯市	Kuytun, a county-level city in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
奎文區	Kuiwen, a district of Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
奎星	Kuixing, the Great Bear, one of the 28 constellations
奏	to play music; to achieve; to present a memorial to the emperor (old)
奏帖	memorial to the emperor (folded in accordion form)
奏摺	memorial to the emperor (folded in accordion form)
奏效	to show results; to be effective
奏樂	to perform music; to play a tune
奏鳴曲	sonata
奏鳴曲式	sonata form (one of the large-scale structures used in Western classical music)
奐	surname Huan
契	to carve; carved words; to agree
契丹	Qidan or Khitan, ethnic group in ancient China, a branch of the Eastern Hu people inhabiting the valley of the Xar Murun River in the upper reaches of the Liao River 遼河|辽河[Liao2 He2]
契丹國志	History of the Liao Dynasty, 13th-century book on the history of the Khitan Empire (916-1125)
契卡	Cheka, a Soviet secret police agency, forerunner of the KGB
契合	agreement; to agree; to get on with
契媽	adoptive mother
契子	adopted son
契據	deed
契機	opportunity; turning point
契沙比克灣	Chesapeake Bay
契箭	arrow used as a token of authority (by field commanders)
契約	agreement; contract
契約橋牌	contract bridge (card game)
契約精神	culture of honoring contractual obligations
契訶夫	Anton Pavlovich Chekhov (1860-1904), Russian writer famous for his short stories and plays
奓	to open; to spread
奔	to hurry; to rush; to run quickly
奔三	to be pushing 30
奔命	to rush about on errands; to be kept on the run
奔喪	to hasten home for the funeral of a parent or grandparent
奔四	to be pushing 40
奔奔族	lit. Rushing Clan, generation born between 1975-1985 and China's most hedonistic and hard-working social group (netspeak)
奔忙	to be busy rushing about; to bustle about
奔放	bold and unrestrained; untrammeled
奔月	to fly to the moon
奔波	to rush about; to be constantly on the move
奔流	to flow at great speed; to pour; racing current
奔瀉	(of torrents) to rush down; to pour down
奔現	(neologism) to meet sb in real life after forming a relationship online
奔竄	(of people or animals) to flee helter-skelter; to scatter
奔襲	to carry out a long-range raid
奔走	to run; to rush about; to be on the go
奔走相告	to spread the news (idiom)
奔赴	to rush to; to hurry to
奔跑	to run
奔逃	to flee; to run away
奔頭	sth to strive for; prospect
奔馬	(literary) (swift like a) speeding horse
奔馳	to run quickly; to speed; to gallop
奔騰	(of waves) to surge forward; to roll on in waves; to gallop
奕	abundant; graceful
奕訢	Grand Prince Yixin (1833-1898), sixth son of Emperor Daoguang, prominent politician, diplomat and modernizer in late Qing
奕詝	given name of Qing Emperor Xianfeng 咸豐|咸丰[Xian2 feng1]
套	to cover; to encase; cover
套中人	a conservative
套交情	to try to gain sb's friendship
套件	kit (equipment); (bicycle) groupset
套作	(agriculture) to interplant
套兒	(coll.) loop of rope; noose; scheme
套利	arbitrage
套利者	arbitrager
套包	collar part of horse harness
套匯	illegal currency exchange; arbitrage
套印	color printing using several overlaid images
套取	to acquire fraudulently; an illegal exchange
套口供	to trap a suspect into a confession
套問	to sound sb out; to find out by tactful indirect questioning
套圈	ferrule; ring toss
套套	methods; the old tricks; (slang) condom
套娃	Russian doll (matryoshka doll) or similar nested doll
套子	sheath; case; cover
套房	small room opening off another; inner room; suite; apartment; flat
套換	to change (currency) illegally; fraudulent exchange
套數	song cycle in Chinese opera; (fig.) a series of tricks; polite remarks
套曲	divertimento (music)
套服	a suit (of clothes)
套期保值	to hedge (one's bets); to defend against risk
套牌車	car with fake plates
套牢	to immobilize with a lasso; to be trapped in the stock market
套現	to convert (an asset) into cash; to cash out
套用	to apply (sth hitherto used in a different context)
套疊	overlapping; nesting; to interleave
套磁	(coll.) to cultivate good relations with sb
套票	combination ticket
套種	to interplant
套筒	sleeve; a tube for wrapping
套筒扳手	socket spanner
套管	pipe casing
套紅	printing portions of a page (e.g. a banner headline) in red (or other color)
套索	a lasso; noose
套結	a noose
套繩	a lasso
套色	color printing using several overlaid images
套衫	a pullover
套衫兒	a pullover
套袖	sleeve cover
套裙	a woman's suit (including a skirt)
套裝	outfit or suit (of clothes); set of coordinated items; kit
套褲	leggings
套話	polite phrase; conventional greetings; cliché
套語	polite set phrases
套購	a fraudulent purchase; to buy up sth illegally
套路	sequence of movements in martial arts; routine; pattern
套車	to harness (a horse to a cart)
套近乎	to worm one's way into being friends with sb (usually derogatory)
套鐘	chime
套間	vestibule; small inner room (opening to others); suite
套鞋	overshoes; galoshes
套頭	(of a garment) designed to be put on by pulling it over one's head (like a sweater or T-shirt etc)
套餐	set meal
套馬	to harness a horse; to lasso a horse
套馬桿	lasso on long wooden pole
奘	(literary) strong; robust (used in personal names)
奚	(literary) what?; where?; why?
奚嘯伯	Xi Xiaobo (1910-1977), Beijing opera star, one of the Four great beards 四大鬚生|四大须生
奚落	to taunt; to ridicule; to jeer at
奜	big
奠	to fix; to settle; a libation to the dead
奠儀	a gift of money to the family of the deceased
奠基	to lay a foundation
奠基人	founder; pioneer
奠基石	foundation stone; cornerstone
奠基者	founder; pioneer
奠定	to establish; to fix; to settle
奠濟宮	Dianji Temple in Keelung, Taiwan
奠祭	pouring of wine on ground for sacrifice
奠都	to determine the position of the capital; to found a capital
奠酒	a libation
奡	haughty; vigorous
奢	extravagant
奢侈	luxurious; extravagant
奢侈品	luxury item
奢望	an extravagant hope; to have excessive expectations
奢求	to make extravagant demands; an unreasonable request
奢泰	extravagant; sumptuous; wasteful
奢盼	an extravagant hope; to have unrealistic expectations
奢華	luxurious; sumptuous; lavish
奢靡	extravagant
奢香	She Xiang (c. 1361-1396), lady who served as Yi ethnic group leader in Yunnan in early Ming times
奢麗	sumptuous; a luxury
奣	clear and cloudless sky
奧	(bound form) Austria (abbr. for 奧地利|奥地利[Ao4 di4 li4])
奧丁	Odin (god in Norse mythology)
奧丁諧振器	Oudin coil; Oudin resonator
奧什	Osh (city in Kyrgyzstan)
奧克拉荷馬	Oklahoma, US state (Tw)
奧克蘇斯河	Oxus River; alternative name for Amu Darya 阿姆河[A1 mu3 He2]
奧克蘭	Auckland (New Zealand city); Oakland (California, US city)
奧切諾斯	Oceanus, a Titan in Greek mythology
奧利奧	Oreo cookies
奧利安	Orion (constellation, loan word); also written 獵戶座|猎户座
奧利給	(neologism c. 2020) come on, you can do it!
奧利維亞	Olivia (name)
奧匈帝國	Austro-Hungarian Empire 1867–1918
奧卡姆剃刀	Occam's razor
奧古斯塔	Augusta (place name: capital of Maine, city in Georgia etc)
奧古斯都	Augustus (name)
奧司他韋	(loanword) oseltamivir
奧國	Austria
奧地利	Austria
奧塞梯	Ossetia (ethnolinguistic region in the Caucasus Mountains)
奧妙	marvelous; mysterious; profound
奧姆真理教	Aum Shinrikyo (or Supreme Truth), the Japanese death cult responsible for the 1995 sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway
奧委會	Olympic committee
奧威爾	Orwell (name)
奧客	(Tw) (coll.) troublesome customer; obnoxious guest (from Taiwanese 漚客, Tai-lo pr. [àu-kheh])
奧密克戎	omicron (Greek letter Ο, ο)
奧巴馬	Barack Obama (1961–), US Democrat politician, president 2009–2017
奧布里	Aubrey (name)
奧康內爾	O'Connell (name)
奧康納	O'Connor (name)
奧德修斯	Odysseus
奧德賽	Homer's Odyssey
奧托	Otto
奧援	hidden ally; powerful support; support
奧數	International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO) (abbr. for 國際奧林匹克數學競賽|国际奥林匹克数学竞赛[Guo2 ji4 Ao4 lin2 pi3 ke4 Shu4 xue2 Jing4 sai4])
奧斯丁	Austin or Austen (name); Austin, Texas
奧斯卡	(film industry) Oscar (Academy Award); (name) Oscar
奧斯卡金像獎	an Academy Award; an Oscar
奧斯威辛	Auschwitz (concentration camp)
奧斯威辛集中營	Auschwitz concentration camp
奧斯曼	Ottoman (empire)
奧斯曼帝國	Ottoman Empire (1299–1922)
奧斯汀	Austin or Austen (name); Austin, Texas
奧斯特洛夫斯基	Nikolai Ostrovsky (1904-1936), Soviet socialist realist writer
奧斯瓦爾德	Oswald
奧斯維辛	Auschwitz (concentration camp)
奧斯陸	Oslo, capital of Norway
奧會	Olympic Games (abbr. for 奧林匹克運動會|奥林匹克运动会[Ao4 lin2 pi3 ke4 Yun4 dong4 hui4])
奧朗德	François Hollande (1954-), French Socialist politician, president of France 2012-2017
奧林匹亞	Olympia (Greece)
奧林匹克	Olympic
奧林匹克運動會	Olympic Games; the Olympics
奧林匹克運動會組織委員會	Olympic Organizing Committee
奧林匹克體育場	Olympic Stadium
奧林巴斯	Olympus, Japanese manufacturer of cameras and optical instruments
奧氏體	(metallurgy) austenite; austenitic
奧波萊	Opole, city in Poland
奧派	(economics) Austrian School
奧爾巴尼	Albany, New York
奧爾布賴特	Madeleine Albright (1937–2022), US Secretary of State 1997–2001
奧爾德尼島	Alderney (Channel Islands)
奧爾德斯·赫胥黎	Aldous Huxley (1894–1963), British novelist and author of "Brave New World" 美麗新世界|美丽新世界[Mei3 li4 Xin1 Shi4 jie4]
奧爾良	Orléans
奧特曼	Ultraman, Japanese science fiction superhero
奧特朗托	Otranto city on the southeast heel of Italy
奧特朗托海峽	Strait of Otranto between the heel of Italy and Albania
奧特萊斯	outlets (loanword)
奧盧	Oulu (city in Finland)
奧祕	secret; mystery
奧米伽	omega (Greek letter Ω, ω); also pr. [ao4mi3jia1]
奧納西斯	Onassis (name); Aristotle Onassis (1906-1975), Greek shipping magnate
奧組委	Olympic Organizing Committee (abbr. for 奧林匹克運動會組織委員會|奥林匹克运动会组织委员会[Ao4 lin2 pi3 ke4 Yun4 dong4 hui4 Zu3 zhi1 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
奧維耶多	Oviedo (Asturian: Uviéu), capital of Asturias in northwest Spain
奧胡斯	Aarhus, city in Denmark
奧臘涅斯塔德	Oranjestad, capital of Aruba 阿魯巴|阿鲁巴[A1 lu3 ba1]
奧蘭多	Orlando
奧蘭群島	Åland Islands, Finland
奧西娜斯	Oceanus, a Titan in Greek mythology
奧賴恩	Orion (NASA spacecraft)
奧賽羅	Othello (play by Shakespeare)
奧迪	Audi
奧迪修斯	Odysseus, hero of Homer's Odyssey
奧迹	Holy mystery; Holy sacrament (of Orthodox church)
奧運	Olympic Games; the Olympics (abbr. for 奧林匹克運動會|奥林匹克运动会[Ao4 lin2 pi3 ke4 Yun4 dong4 hui4])
奧運會	Olympic Games; the Olympics (abbr. for 奧林匹克運動會|奥林匹克运动会[Ao4 lin2 pi3 ke4 Yun4 dong4 hui4])
奧運村	Olympic Village
奧運賽	Olympic Games
奧里薩邦	Odisha (formerly Orissa), eastern Indian state
奧里里亞	Aurelia, a hypothetical planet
奧陌陌	ʻOumuamua (interstellar object)
奧陶系	Ordovician system (geology)
奧陶紀	Ordovician (geological period 495-440m years ago)
奧馬哈	Omaha
奧馬爾	Omar (Arabic name)
奧黛	ao dai (traditional Vietnamese garment)
奧黛莉	Audrey
奧黛麗	Audrey
奩	bridal trousseau
奪	to seize; to take away forcibly; to wrest control of
奪偶	to contend for a mate
奪冠	to seize the crown; fig. to win a championship; to win gold medal
奪取	to seize; to capture; to wrest control of
奪回	to take back (forcibly); to recapture; to win back
奪得	to take (after a struggle); to wrest; to seize
奪標	to compete for first prize
奪權	to seize power
奪目	to dazzle the eyes
奪舍	to incarnate into sb else's body
奪走	to snatch away
奪金	to snatch gold; to take first place in a competition
奪門而出	to rush out through a door (idiom)
奪魁	to win the championship; to take first place
奫	deep and broad (expanse of water); abyss
奭	(literary) majestic; magnificent; (literary) rich, deep red
奮	to exert oneself (bound form)
奮不顧身	to dash on bravely with no thought of personal safety (idiom); undaunted by dangers
奮力	to do everything one can; to spare no effort; to strive
奮勇	dauntless; to summon up courage and determination
奮戰	to fight bravely; (fig.) to struggle; to work hard
奮武揚威	a show of strength
奮發	to rouse to vigorous action; energetic mood
奮發圖強	to work energetically for prosperity (of the country)
奮筆疾書	to write at a tremendous speed
奮袂	to roll up one's sleeves for action
奮起	to rise vigorously; a spirited start
奮起直追	to catch up vigorously; to set off in hot pursuit
奮進	to advance bravely; to endeavor
奮進號	Space Shuttle Endeavor
奮飛	to spread wings and fly
奮鬥	to strive; to struggle
奰	anger
女	female; woman; daughter
女上位	woman-on-top sex position
女主	female lead; female protagonist
女主人	hostess; mistress
女主人公	heroine (of a novel or film); main female protagonist
女主角	female lead; female protagonist
女乘務員	stewardess; female flight attendant
女人	woman
女人家	women (in general)
女人氣	womanly temperament; femininity; effeminate (of male)
女伴	female companion
女修道院	convent
女傑	woman of distinction; a woman to be admired or respected
女傭	(female) maid
女僕	female servant; maid
女儐相	bridesmaid
女優	(old) actress; adult film actress; AV actress
女兒	daughter
女兒牆	crenelated parapet wall
女兒紅	kind of Chinese wine
女公子	noble lady; (honorific) your daughter
女公爵	duchess
女兵	woman in the military; servicewoman
女友	girlfriend
女同	a lesbian (coll.)
女同胞	woman; female; female compatriot
女單	women's singles (in tennis, badminton etc)
女團	girl group
女士	lady; madam; Miss
女士優先	Ladies first!
女大	(slang) female university student; female college student
女大不中留	when a girl is of age, she must be married off (idiom)
女大十八變	lit. a girl changes eighteen times between childhood and womanhood (idiom)
女娃	mythological daughter of Fiery Emperor 炎帝[Yan2 di4] who turned into bird Jingwei 精衛|精卫[Jing1 wei4] after drowning
女婿	daughter's husband; son-in-law
女媧	Nüwa (creator of humans in Chinese mythology)
女媧氏	Nüwa (creator of humans in Chinese mythology)
女嬰	female baby
女子	woman; female
女子參政權	women's suffrage
女子無才便是德	a woman's virtue is to have no talent (idiom)
女孩	girl; lass
女孩兒	erhua form of 女孩[nu : 3 hai2]
女孩子	girl
女家	bride's family (in marriage)
女將	female general
女工	working woman
女巫	witch; sorceress
女店員	salesgirl; female shop assistant
女廁	women's restroom; women's toilet
女強人	successful career woman; able woman
女性	woman; the female sex
女性主義	feminism
女性割禮	female genital mutilation
女性化	to feminize; feminization
女性厭惡	misogyny
女性貶抑	misogyny
女房東	landlady
女扮男裝	(of a woman) to dress as a man (idiom)
女排	women's volleyball; abbr. for 女子排球
女方	the bride's side (of a wedding); of the bride's party
女星	female star; famous actress
女書	nüshu writing, a phonetic syllabary for Yao ethnic group 瑤族|瑶族[Yao2 zu2] dialect designed and used by women in Jiangyong county 江永縣|江永县[Jiang1 yong3 xian4] in southern Hunan
女朋友	girlfriend
女校	all-girls school
女權	women's rights
女權主義	feminism
女武神	valkyrie
女流	(derog.) woman
女漢子	masculine woman
女牆	crenelated parapet wall
女犯	female offender in imperial China (old)
女王	queen
女生	schoolgirl; female student; girl
女生外向	a woman is born to leave her family (idiom)
女的	woman
女皇	empress
女皇帝	empress
女真	Jurchen, a Tungus ethnic group, predecessor of the Manchu ethnic group who founded the Later Jin Dynasty 後金|后金[Hou4 Jin1] and Qing Dynasty
女真語	Jurchen language
女眷	the females in a family; womenfolk
女神	goddess; nymph
女神蛤	geoduck (Panopea abrupta); elephant trunk clam
女票	(slang) girlfriend
女童	little girl
女管家	housekeeper
女籃	women's basketball; women's basketball team
女紅	(literary) the feminine arts (e.g. needlework)
女繼承人	inheritress
女舍監	matron
女色	female charms; femininity
女衛	women's bathroom (abbr. for 女衛生間|女卫生间)
女裝	women's clothes
女襯衫	blouse
女警	policewoman
女警員	a policewoman
女貞	privet (genus Ligustrum)
女賓	female guest; female visitor
女足	women's soccer; women's football; women's soccer team
女郎	young woman; maiden; girl
女陰	vulva; pudenda
女雙	women's doubles (in tennis, badminton etc)
女體盛	nyotaimori or "body sushi", Japanese practice of serving sushi on the body of a naked woman
女高	(slang) female high school student; all-girls high school
女高音	soprano
女鬼	female ghost
奴	slave
奴僕	servant
奴兒干	part of Heilongjiang and the Vladivostok area ruled by the Ming dynasty
奴兒干都司	the Ming dynasty provincial headquarters in the Heilongjiang and Vladivostok area
奴化	to enslave; to subjugate
奴婢	slave servant
奴家	(old) your servant (humble self-reference by young female)
奴工	slave labor; slave worker
奴役	to enslave
奴性	servility; doormat mentality
奴才	slave; fig. flunkey
奴隸	slave
奴隸主	slave owner
奴隸制	slavery
奴隸制度	slavery
奴隸社會	slave-owning society (precedes feudal society 封建社會|封建社会 in Marxist theory)
奴顏婢膝	servile and bending the knee (idiom); fawning
奶	breast; milk; to breastfeed
奶名	pet name for a child; infant name
奶品	dairy product
奶嘴	nipple (on a baby's bottle); pacifier
奶奶	(informal) grandma (paternal grandmother)
奶奶灰	granny gray (hair color)
奶奶的	damn it!; blast it!
奶娘	(dialect) wet nurse
奶媽	wet nurse
奶子	(coll.) milk; (coll.) breast; booby
奶帥	(slang) (of a young man) sweet and boyish in appearance
奶拽	(slang) (of a young man) cute, with a touch of swagger
奶昔	milkshake (Note: 昔[xi1] is loaned from English "shake" via Cantonese 昔, pr. sik1)
奶母	wet nurse
奶水	breast milk
奶汁	milk from a woman's breast
奶汁烤	gratin
奶油	cream; butter; (coll.) effeminate
奶油小生	handsome but effeminate man; pretty boy
奶油果	avocado
奶油菜花	creamed cauliflower
奶油雞蛋	cream sponge
奶湯	white broth, or milky broth: an unctuous, milky white pork broth of Chinese cuisine
奶爸	stay-at-home dad
奶牛	milk cow; dairy cow
奶牛場	dairy farm
奶狗	very young puppy
奶瓶	baby's feeding bottle
奶白菜	milk cabbage (aka "white bok choy" and various other names), a variety of bok choy
奶站	dairy
奶粉	powdered milk
奶精	non-dairy creamer
奶素	(adjective) lacto-vegetarian
奶罩	bra; brassière
奶茶	milk tea
奶蛋素	ovo-lacto vegetarian
奶製品	dairy product
奶貓	very young kitten
奶農	dairy farming
奶酥	butter biscuit; butter bun
奶酪	cheese
奶酪火鍋	fondue
奶音	child's voice; childlike voice
奶頭	nipple; teat (on baby's bottle)
奶頭樂	(calque of "tittytainment") low-brow entertainment that distracts the poor from their circumstances; mindless entertainment
奶黃	custard
奶黃包	custard bun
奸	wicked; crafty; traitor
奸人	crafty scoundrel; villain
奸佞	crafty and fawning
奸商	profiteer; crooked merchant
奸夫	male adulterer
奸宄	evildoer; malefactor
奸官	a treacherous official; a mandarin who conspires against the state
奸官污吏	traitor minister and corrupt official (idiom); abuse and corruption
奸徒	a crafty villain
奸惡	crafty and evil
奸民	a scoundrel; a villain
奸狡	devious; cunning
奸猾	treacherous; crafty; deceitful
奸笑	evil smile; sinister smile
奸細	a spy; a crafty person
奸臣	a treacherous court official
奸計	evil plan; evil schemes
奸詐	treachery; devious; a rogue
奸賊	a traitor; a treacherous bandit
奸邪	crafty and evil; a treacherous villain
奸險	malicious; treacherous; wicked and crafty
奸黨	a clique of traitors
她	she
她們	they; them (females)
她瑪	Tamir (mother of Perez and Zerah)
她經濟	"she-economy" reflecting women's economic contribution
奼	(literary) beautiful
奼女	beautiful girl; mercury
奼紫嫣紅	lit. beautiful purples and brilliant reds (idiom)
好	to be fond of; to have a tendency to; to be prone to
好不	not at all ...; how very ...
好不好	(coll.) all right?; OK?
好不容易	with great difficulty; very difficult
好久	(coll.) for a long time
好久不見	long time no see
好了傷疤忘了疼	to forget past pains once the wound has healed (idiom)
好事	good action, deed, thing or work (also sarcastic, "a fine thing indeed")
好事不出門，惡事傳千里	lit. good deeds do not go beyond the door, evil deeds spread a thousand miles
好事之徒	busybody
好事多磨	the road to happiness is strewn with setbacks (idiom)
好事者	busybody
好些	a good deal of; quite a lot
好人	good person; healthy person
好人好事	admirable people and exemplary deeds
好似	to seem; to be like
好使	easy to use; to function well; so that
好像	as if; to seem like
好兵帥克	The Good Soldier Švejk (Schweik), satirical novel by Czech author Jaroslav Hašek (1883-1923)
好動	active; restless; energetic
好勝	eager to win; competitive; aggressive
好半天	most of the day
好去	bon voyage; Godspeed
好又多	Trust-Mart (supermarket chain)
好友	close friend; pal; (social networking website) friend
好受	feeling better; to be more at ease
好吃	to be fond of eating; to be gluttonous
好吃懶做	happy to partake but not prepared to do any work (idiom)
好命	lucky; blessed with good fortune
好哇	hurray!; hurrah!; yippee!
好喝	tasty (drinks)
好在	luckily; fortunately
好報	karmic reward (resulting from good deeds, in contrast to karmic retribution 惡報|恶报[e4 bao4])
好壞	good or bad; good and bad; standard; quality
好多	many; quite a lot; much better
好夢難成	a beautiful dream is hard to realize (idiom)
好大喜功	to rejoice in grandiose deeds
好奇	inquisitive; curious; inquisitiveness
好奇尚異	to have a taste for the exotic (idiom)
好奇心	interest in sth; curiosity; inquisitive
好好	in perfectly good condition; perfectly all right
好好先生	Mr Goody-goody; yes-man (sb who agrees with anything)
好好兒	erhua form of 好好[hao3 hao3]
好好學習，天天向上	study hard and every day you will improve (idiom)
好學	eager to study; studious; erudite
好學近乎知，力行近乎仁，知恥近乎勇	to love learning is akin to knowledge, to study diligently is akin to benevolence, to know shame is akin to courage (Confucius)
好客	hospitality; to treat guests well; to enjoy having guests
好家伙	my God!; oh boy!; man!
好容易	(idiomatic usage) with great difficulty
好市多	(Tw) Costco (warehouse club chain)
好幾	several; quite a few
好幾年	several years
好康	(Tw) benefit; advantage (from Taiwanese 好空, Tai-lo pr. [hó-khang])
好強	eager to be first
好心	kindness; good intentions
好心人	kindhearted person; good Samaritan
好心當成驢肝肺	(saying) to mistake good intentions for ill will
好惡	lit. likes and dislikes; preferences; taste
好惹	accommodating; easy to push around
好意	good intention; kindness
好意思	to have the nerve; what a cheek!; to feel no shame
好感	good opinion; favorable impression
好戰	warlike
好戲還在後頭	the best part of the show is yet to come
好手	expert; professional
好整以暇	to be calm and unruffled in the midst of chaos or at a busy time (idiom)
好料	sth of good quality; good person (usu. in the negative)
好日子	auspicious day; good day; happy life
好時	Hershey's (brand)
好景不長	a good thing doesn't last forever (idiom)
好朋友	good friend; (slang) a visit from Aunt Flo (menstrual period)
好望角	Cape of Good Hope
好棒	excellent (interjection)
好樣的	(idiom) a good person, used to praise sb's moral integrity or courage
好歹	good and bad; most unfortunate occurrence; in any case
好死不如賴活著	better a bad life than a good death (idiom)
好比	to be just like; can be compared to
好氣	(coll.) good mood (usu. used in the negative)
好氧	aerobic
好活當賞	(coll.) bravo; nice one; lovely
好漢	hero; strong and courageous person
好漢不吃眼前虧	a wise man knows better than to fight when the odds are against him (idiom)
好漢不提當年勇	a real man doesn't boast about his past achievements (idiom)
好漢做事好漢當	daring to act and courageous enough to take responsibility for it (idiom)
好為人師	to like to lecture others (idiom)
好物	fine goods
好玩	to be playful; to be fond of one's fun
好球	(ball sports) good shot!; nice hit!; well played!
好生	(dialect) very; quite; properly; well; thoroughly
好用	useful; serviceable; effective
好男不跟女鬥	a real man doesn't fight with womenfolk (idiom)
好看	good-looking; nice-looking; (of a movie, book, TV show etc) good
好睇	good-looking (Cantonese)
好睡	good night
好立克	Horlicks (brand of malted milk powder for making a hot drink)
好端端	perfectly all right; without rhyme or reason
好笑	laughable; funny; ridiculous
好聚好散	to part without hard feelings; to cut the knot as smoothly as you tied it
好聽	pleasant to hear
好自為之	to do one's best; to shape up; to fend for oneself; you're on your own
好色	to want sex; given to lust; lecherous
好色之徒	lecher; womanizer; dirty old man
好萊塢	Hollywood; also pr. [Hao3lai2wu1]
好處	benefit; advantage; merit; gain; profit; also pr. [hao3chu4]
好言	kind words
好言好語	sincere, well-meant, kind words
好記	easy to remember
好記性不如爛筆頭	the palest ink is better than the best memory (idiom)
好評	favorable criticism; positive evaluation
好話	friendly advice; words spoken on sb's behalf; a good word
好說	easy to deal with; not a problem; (polite answer) you flatter me
好說歹說	(idiom) to try one's very best to persuade sb; to reason with sb in every way possible
好象	to seem; to be like (variant of 好像[hao3 xiang4])
好走	bon voyage; Godspeed
好起來	to get better; to improve; to get well
好轉	to improve; to take a turn for the better; improvement
好辦	easy to do; easy to manage
好辯	argumentative; quarrelsome
好逸惡勞	to love ease and comfort and hate work (idiom)
好運	good luck
好運符	good luck charm
好過	to have an easy time; (feel) well
好道	don't tell me ...; could it be that...?
好酒沉甕底	lit. the best wine is at the bottom of the jug (idiom)
好酒貪杯	fond of the bottle (idiom)
好險	to have a close call; to have a narrow escape
好面子	to be overly concerned with face
好飯不怕晚	the meal is remembered long after the wait is forgotten
好馬不吃回頭草	lit. a good horse doesn't turn around and graze the same patch again (idiom)
好高騖遠	to bite off more than one can chew (idiom); to aim too high
好鬥	to be warlike; to be belligerent
好鳥	person of good character; nice person
妁	(literary) matchmaker (on the bride's side)
如	as; as if; such as
如一	consistent; the same; unvarying
如下	as follows
如人飲水，冷暖自知	the person who drinks it knows best whether the water is hot or cold (Zen proverb); self-awareness comes from within
如今	nowadays; now
如何	how; what way; what
如來	tathagata (Buddha's name for himself, having many layers of meaning - Sanskrit: thus gone, having been Brahman, gone to the absolute etc)
如來佛	Tathagata, one of the ten sacred names of Buddha
如來佛的掌心	the palm of the Buddha's hand (a metaphor for a higher authority or force from whose control one cannot break free, from 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 ji4], "Journey to the West")
如假包換	replacement guaranteed if not genuine; fig. authentic
如其所好	as one pleases (idiom)
如出一轍	to be precisely the same; to be no different
如初	as before; as ever
如同	like; as
如喪考妣	(lit.) as if in mourning for one's parents (idiom)
如坐針氈	lit. as if sitting on pins and needles (idiom)
如墮五里霧中	as if lost in a thick fog (idiom); in a fog; muddled
如墮煙霧	as if degenerating into smoke (idiom); ignorant and unable to see where things are heading
如夫人	(old) concubine
如實	as things really are; realistic
如履薄冰	(lit.) as if walking on thin ice (idiom); (fig.) extremely cautious
如常	as usual
如廁	to go to the toilet
如影隨形	(lit.) as the shadow follows the body (idiom)
如意	as one wants; according to one's wishes
如意套	(dialect) condom
如意算盤	counting one's chickens before they are hatched
如意郎君	ideal husband; Mr. Right
如故	as before; as usual; (to be) like old friends
如數	in the amount stipulated (by prior agreement); in full
如數家珍	lit. as if enumerating one's family valuables (idiom)
如斯	(literary) in this way; so
如日中天	lit. like the sun at noon (idiom)
如是	thus
如是我聞	so I have heard (idiom)
如有所失	to seem as if something is amiss (idiom)
如期	as scheduled; on time; punctual
如東縣	Rudong, a county in Nantong City 南通市[Nan2 tong1 Shi4], Jiangsu
如果	if; in case; in the event that
如果說	if; if one were to say
如此	like this; so; such
如此這般	thus and so; such and such
如法炮製	lit. to follow the recipe (idiom); fig. to follow a set pattern
如泣如訴	(lit.) as if weeping and complaining (idiom)
如火	fiery
如火如荼	like wildfire (idiom); unstoppable
如狼似虎	lit. like wolves and tigers; ruthless
如獲至寶	as if gaining the most precious treasure
如畫	picturesque
如癡如醉	(idiom) enthralled; mesmerized; enraptured
如皋市	Rugao, a county-level city in Nantong City 南通市[Nan2 tong1 Shi4], Jiangsu
如簧之舌	lit. a tongue like a reed (idiom); fig. a glib tongue
如約而至	to arrive as planned; right on schedule
如膠似漆	stuck together as by glue (of lovers); joined at the hip
如臂使指	as the arm moves the finger (idiom); freely and effortlessly
如臨大敵	lit. as if meeting a great enemy (idiom); fig. cautious
如臨深淵	(lit.) as if on the brink of a deep abyss (idiom)
如花	flowery
如花似玉	delicate as a flower, refined as a precious jade (idiom)
如若	if
如草	grassy
如虎添翼	lit. like a tiger that has grown wings; with redoubled power (idiom)
如蛆附骨	lit. like maggots feeding on a corpse (idiom); fig. fixed on sth
如蟻附膻	like ants pursuing a stink (idiom); the mob chases the rich and powerful
如蠅逐臭	like flies pursuing a stink (idiom); the mob chases the rich and powerful
如許	(literary) like this; such (as this); so much
如詩如畫	(of scenery) stunning; spectacular; picturesque
如釋重負	as if relieved from a burden (idiom); to have a weight off one's mind
如金似玉	like gold or jade (idiom); gorgeous; lovely
如雲	like the clouds in the sky (i.e. numerous)
如雷貫耳	lit. like thunder piercing the ear; a well-known reputation (idiom)
如題	as the title suggests; as indicated in the title
如願	to have one's wishes fulfilled
如願以償	to have one's wish fulfilled
如飢似渴	to hunger for sth (idiom); eagerly; to long for sth
如魚得水	like a fish back in water (idiom); glad to be back in one's proper surroundings
如鯁在喉	lit. as if having a fish bone stuck in one's throat (idiom)
如鳥獸散	(lit.) to scatter like birds and beasts (idiom)
妃	imperial concubine
妃嬪	imperial concubine
妃子	imperial concubine
妃子笑	concubine's smile, a cultivar of lychee
妄	absurd; fantastic; presumptuous
妄下雌黃	to alter a text indiscriminately (idiom)
妄人	presumptuous and ignorant person
妄動	to rush indiscriminately into action
妄取	to take sth without permission
妄圖	to try in vain; futile attempt
妄念	wild fantasy; unwarranted thought
妄想	to attempt vainly; a vain attempt; delusion
妄想狂	paranoia; megalomaniac
妄想症	delusional disorder; (fig.) paranoia
妄斷	to jump to an unfounded conclusion
妄求	inappropriate or presumptuous demands
妄為	to take rash action
妄生穿鑿	a forced analogy (idiom); to jump to an unwarranted conclusion
妄稱	to make a false and unwarranted declaration
妄自尊大	ridiculous self-importance (idiom); arrogance
妄自菲薄	to be unduly humble (idiom); to undervalue oneself
妄言	lies; wild talk; to tell lies
妄言妄聽	unwarranted talk the listener can take or leave (idiom); sth not to be taken too seriously
妄語	to tell lies; to talk nonsense; lies; nonsense
妄說	to talk irresponsibly; ridiculous presumption talk
妊	pregnant; pregnancy
妊娠	pregnancy; gestation
妊娠紋	stretch marks (due to pregnancy)
妊娠試驗	pregnancy test
妊婦	expecting mother
妍	beautiful
妍麗	beautiful
妏	(used in female names)
妒	to envy (success, talent); jealous
妒嫉	to be jealous of (sb's achievements etc); to be envious; envy
妒忌	to be jealous of (sb's achievements etc); to be envious; envy
妒能害賢	jealous of the able, envious of the clever (idiom)
妓	prostitute
妓女	prostitute; hooker
妓寨	brothel
妓院	brothel; whorehouse
妓館	brothel
妖	goblin; witch; devil
妖人	magician; sorcerer
妖冶	pretty and flirtatious
妖女	beautiful woman
妖姬	(literary) beauty (usually of a maid or concubine)
妖婦	witch (esp. European)
妖媚	seductive; captivating; alluring
妖嬈	enchanting; alluring (of a girl)
妖孽	evildoer
妖怪	monster; devil
妖氣	sinister appearance; monster-like appearance
妖物	monster
妖精	evil spirit; alluring woman
妖艷	pretty and flirtatious
妖術	sorcery
妖術師	warlock; sorcerer
妖言	heresy
妖言惑眾	to mislead the public with rumors (idiom)
妖邪	evil monster
妖風	evil wind
妖魔	demon
妖魔化	to demonize
妖魔鬼怪	(idiom) all kinds of evil spirits or malevolent beings
妗	wife of mother's brother
妗子	(informal) mother's brother's wife; maternal uncle's wife
妘	surname Yun; (used in given names, mostly female names)
妙	clever; wonderful
妙不可言	too wonderful for words
妙品	a fine work of art
妙在不言中	the charm lies in what is left unsaid (idiom)
妙妙熊歷險記	Adventures of the Gummi Bears (Disney animated series)
妙手	miraculous hands of a healer; highly skilled person
妙手回春	(idiom) (of a doctor) to effect a miracle cure
妙手空空	petty thief (lit. quick fingered and vanish); empty-handed
妙招	smart move; clever way of doing sth
妙探尋兇	Cluedo (board game)
妙智慧	wondrous wisdom and knowledge (Buddhism)
妙法	brilliant plan; ingenious method; perfect solution
妙法蓮華經	The Lotus Sutra
妙用	to use (sth) in an ingenious way; marvelously effective use
妙筆	talented, gifted or ingenious writing
妙筆生花	gifted or skillful writing
妙處	ideal place; suitable location; merit
妙計	excellent plan; brilliant scheme
妙語	witticism
妙語如珠	sparkling with wit (idiom)
妙語橫生	to be full of wit and humor
妙語連珠	sparkling with wit (idiom)
妙趣	witty; clever; amusing
妙趣橫生	endlessly interesting (idiom); very witty
妙齡	(of a girl) in the prime of youth
妚	embryo
妝	(of a woman) to adorn oneself; makeup; adornment
妝奩	trousseau; lady's dressing case
妝容	a look (achieved by applying makeup)
妝造	makeup and styling
妝飾	to dress up
妝點	to decorate
妞	girl
妞妞	little girl
妣	deceased mother
妤	used in 婕妤[jie2 yu2]
妥	suitable; adequate; ready
妥協	to compromise; to reach terms; a compromise
妥善	appropriate; proper
妥妥的	(neologism c. 2009) don't worry, it's all taken care of
妥實	proper; appropriate
妥帖	properly; satisfactorily; firmly
妥投	(of mail or a package) to have been successfully delivered
妥瑞症	Tourette syndrome
妥當	appropriate; proper; ready
妨	to hinder; (in the negative or interrogative) (no) harm; (what) harm
妨功害能	to constrain and limit successful, capable people
妨害	to jeopardize; to be harmful to; to undermine
妨害公務	(law) obstructing government administration
妨礙	to hinder; to obstruct
妨礙球	(golf) stymie
妭	(literary) beautiful woman
妮	girl; phonetic "ni" (in female names); Taiwan pr. [ni2]
妮可·基德曼	Nicole Kidman (1967-), film actress
妮子	(coll.) lass; (dialect) little girl
妮維婭	Nivea, skin and body care brand
妮維雅	Nivea, skin and body care brand
妯	used in 妯娌[zhou2 li5]
妯娌	wives of brothers; sisters-in-law
妲	female personal name (archaic)
妲己	Daji (c. 11th century BC), concubine of the last Shang dynasty king Zhou Xin 紂辛|纣辛[Zhou4 Xin1]
妳	you (Note: In Taiwan, 妳 is used to address females, but in mainland China, it is not commonly used. Instead, 你 is used to address both males and females.)
妵	(feminine name); beautiful; fair
妸	(used in female given names)
妹	younger sister
妹夫	younger sister's husband
妹妹	younger sister; young woman
妹妹頭	bob (hairstyle)
妹婿	brother-in-law (younger sister's husband)
妹子	(dialect) younger sister; girl
妹紙	(Internet slang) (pun on 妹子[mei4 zi5])
妺	wife of the last ruler of the Xia dynasty
妻	to marry off (a daughter)
妻兒	wife and child
妻妾	wives and concubines (of a polygamous man); harem
妻妾成群	to have many wives and concubines; to have a harem
妻子	wife and children
妻室	wife
妻小	wife and children; (old) wife
妻管嚴	henpecked male
妻離子散	a family wrenched apart (idiom)
妽	(used in female names)
妾	concubine; I, your servant (deprecatory self-reference for women)
妾侍	maids and concubines
妾室	concubine
姁	chatter like old woman; cheerful
姄	(used in female given names) (old)
姅	menstruation
姆	(old) female tutor; used in 保姆[bao3 mu3]
姆佬	Mulao ethnic group of Guangxi
姆佬族	Mulao ethnic group of Guangxi
姆媽	(dialect) mom; mother
姆巴巴內	Mbabane, administrative capital of Eswatini
姆拉迪奇	Mladić (name)
姈	(literary) (of a woman) intelligent; (used mostly in female names)
姊	older sister; Taiwan pr. [jie3]
姊丈	older sister's husband
姊夫	older sister's husband
姊妹	(older and younger) sisters; sister (school, city etc)
姊姊	older sister; Taiwan pr. [jie3 jie5]
始	to begin; to start; then
始作俑者	(lit.) the first person to make funerary figurines (idiom)
始建	to start building
始料未及	not expected at the outset (idiom); unforeseen
始新世	Eocene (geological epoch from 55m-34m years ago)
始新紀	Eocene (geological epoch from 55m-34m years ago)
始新統	Eocene system (geology)
始末	whole story; the ins and outs
始業式	school opening ceremony (to mark the start of a semester) (Tw)
始發	(of trains etc) to set off (on a journey)
始祖	primogenitor; founder of a school or trade
始祖鳥	archaeopteryx
始終	from beginning to end; all along
始終不渝	unswerving; unflinching
始終如一	unswerving from start to finish (idiom)
始興縣	Shixing, a county in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
始點	starting point
姍	used in 姍姍|姗姗[shan1 shan1]
姍姍	(of gait) unhurried; leisurely
姍姍來遲	to be late; to arrive slowly; to be slow in the coming
姐	older sister
姐丈	older sister's husband; brother-in-law
姐倆	(coll.) two sisters; two close female friends
姐們	(coll.) close female friend; sis (between female friends)
姐們兒	erhua form of 姐們|姐们[jie3 men5]
姐夫	(coll.) older sister's husband
姐妹	sisters; siblings; sister (school, city etc)
姐妹花	beautiful sisters
姐姐	older sister
姐弟戀	love between an older woman and a younger man
姑	paternal aunt; husband's sister; husband's mother (old)
姑丈	husband of paternal aunt
姑且	for the time being; tentatively
姑夫	father's sister's husband; husband of paternal aunt; uncle
姑奶奶	paternal great-aunt (father's father's sister)
姑妄言之	to just talk for the sake of talking
姑姑	paternal aunt
姑姥姥	mother's father's sister (coll.); great aunt
姑娘	girl; young woman; young lady
姑婆	grandfather's sister; sister of a woman's father-in-law
姑婆芋	night-scented lily (Alocasia odora)
姑媽	(coll.) father's married sister; paternal aunt
姑子	husband's sister; (coll.) Buddhist nun
姑息	excessively tolerant; to overindulge (sb); overly conciliatory
姑息遺患	to tolerate is to abet
姑息養奸	to tolerate is to nurture an evildoer (idiom); spare the rod and spoil the child
姑母	father's sister; paternal aunt
姑父	father's sister's husband; husband of paternal aunt; uncle
姑爹	husband of father's sister; uncle
姑爺	son-in-law (used by wife's family); uncle (husband of father's sister)
姑置勿論	(idiom) to put (an issue) to one side for the moment
姑蘇區	Gusu, a district of Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
姒	wife or senior concubine of husbands older brother (old)
姒文命	Si Wenming, personal name of Yu the Great 大禹[Da4 Yu3]
姓	family name; surname; to be surnamed ...
姓名	surname and given name; full name
姓氏	family name
姓蔣還是姓汪	friend or foe? (quote from 沙家浜[Sha1 jia1 bang1]) (蔣|蒋[Jiang3] here refers to Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石[Jiang3 Jie4 shi2] and 汪[Wang1] refers to Wang Jingwei 汪精衛|汪精卫[Wang1 Jing1 wei4])
委	to entrust; to cast aside; to shift (blame etc)
委以	(literary) to entrust with (a task); to appoint to (a role)
委以重任	(literary) to entrust (sb) with an important task
委任	to appoint
委任書	letter of appointment
委任統治	mandate (territory administration)
委內瑞拉	Venezuela
委內瑞拉馬腦炎病毒	Venezuelan equine encephalitis (VEE) virus
委員	committee member
委員會	committee; commission
委員長	head of a committee
委培	to commission another organization (a school or training center etc) to train one's personnel (abbr. for 委托培養|委托培养[wei3 tuo1 pei2 yang3])
委外	to outsource
委委屈屈	to feel aggrieved
委婉	tactful; euphemistic; (of voice etc) suave
委婉詞	euphemism
委婉語	euphemism
委實	indeed; really (very much so)
委屈	wronged; aggrieved
委托人	(law) client; trustor
委曲	to feel wronged; to feel aggrieved
委曲求全	to accept a compromise
委派	to appoint
委蛇	used in 虛與委蛇|虚与委蛇[xu1 yu3 wei1 yi2]
委託	to entrust; to trust; to commission
委託書	commission; proxy; power of attorney
委身	to give oneself wholly to; to put oneself at sb's service
姘	to be a mistress or lover
姘夫	lover (of a woman); illicit partner; paramour
姘婦	mistress; concubine; kept woman
姘居	to cohabit with a lover illicitly
姘頭	lover; mistress
姚	handsome; good-looking
姚安縣	Yao'an, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
姚思廉	Yao Silian (557-637), Tang writer and compiler of 梁書|梁书[Liang2 shu1] and 陳書|陈书[Chen2 shu1]
姚文元	Yao Wenyuan (1931-2005), one of the Gang of Four
姚明	Yao Ming (1980-), retired Chinese basketball player, played for CBA Shanghai Sharks 1997-2002 and for NBA Houston Rockets 2002-2011
姚濱	Yao Bin (1957-), PRC champion ice skater during early 1980s and more recently national skating coach
姚雪垠	Yao Xueyin (1910-1999), PRC novelist, author of historical novel Li Zicheng 李自成
姜	surname Jiang
姜堰區	Jiangyan, a district of Taizhou City 泰州市[Tai4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
姜太公釣魚，願者上鉤	Jiang Ziya is fishing, if you want it, take the hook (idiom, refers to early sage 姜子牙 fishing with no bait and the hook above the water); to put one's head in the noose
姜子牙	Jiang Ziya (c. 1100 BC, dates of birth and death unknown), partly mythical sage advisor to King Wen of Zhou 周文王[Zhou1 Wen2 wang2] and purported author of “Six Secret Strategic Teachings” 六韜|六韬[Liu4 tao1], one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1]
姜戎	Jiang Rong (1946-), pseudonym of Lü Jiamin 呂嘉民|吕嘉民[Lu:3 Jia1 min2], Chinese writer
姜文	Jiang Wen (1963-), sixth generation Chinese movie director
姜石年	Jiang Shinian (c. 2000 BC), birth name of Shennong 神農|神农[Sheng2 nong2] Farmer God, first of the legendary Flame Emperors 炎帝[Yan2 di4] and creator of agriculture in China
姝	pretty woman
姞	surname Ji
姣	cunning; pretty
姣好	(literary) good-looking; attractive
姤	copulate; good
姥	governess; old woman
姥姥	(coll.) mother's mother; maternal grandmother
姥娘	maternal grandmother (dialectal)
姥爺	(coll.) mother's father; maternal grandfather
姥鯊	basking shark (Cetorhinus maximus)
姦	to fornicate; to defile; adultery
姦夫淫婦	adulterous couple
姦宿	to fornicate; to rape
姦屍	to have sex with a corpse
姦情	adultery
姦殺	to rape and murder
姦污	to rape; to violate
姦淫	illicit sex; to rape or seduce
姦雄	person who seeks advancement by any means; career climber
姨	mother's sister; aunt
姨丈	mother's sister's husband; husband of mother's sister
姨太太	concubine
姨夫	mother's sister's husband; husband of mother's sister
姨奶奶	father's mother's sister (coll.); great aunt
姨妹	wife's younger sister; sister-in-law
姨姐	wife's elder sister; sister-in-law
姨姥姥	mother's mother's sister; great-aunt
姨娘	maternal aunt; father's concubine (old)
姨婆	(strictly speaking) sister of one's maternal grandmother; (more broadly) grandaunt; sister of one's mother's mother or mother's father
姨媽	(coll.) mother's sister; maternal aunt
姨媽巾	(coll.) sanitary towel
姨母	mother's sister; maternal aunt
姨母笑	(neologism c. 2017) (slang) kindly, indulgent smile (usu. on the face of a woman)
姨父	husband of mother's sister; uncle
姪	brother's son; nephew
姪女	brother's daughter; niece
姪女婿	brother's daughter's husband; niece's husband
姪媳婦	brother's son's wife; nephew's wife
姪子	brother's son; nephew
姪孫	grandnephew
姪孫女	grand niece
姬	woman; concubine; female entertainer (archaic)
姬佬	(slang) lesbian
姬妾	concubine
姬松茸	himematsutake mushroom (Agaricus subrufescens or Agaricus blazei Murill)
姬濱鷸	(bird species of China) least sandpiper (Calidris minutilla)
姬田雞	(bird species of China) little crake (Zapornia parva)
姬路	Himeji (city in Japan)
姬路城	Himeji Castle in Hyogo prefecture, Japan
姬鷸	(bird species of China) jack snipe (Lymnocryptes minimus)
姮	feminine name (old)
姱	fascinating; pretty
姵	(used in female names)
姶	wonderful; beautiful; (used in female given names and as a surname)
姸	beautiful
姺	name of an ancient state
姻	marriage connections
姻緣	a marriage predestined by fate
姻親	relation by marriage; in-laws
姽	quiet and nice
姿	beauty; disposition; looks
姿勢	posture; position
姿容	looks; appearance
姿態	attitude; posture; stance
姿色	good looks (of a woman)
娀	name of an ancient state
威	power; might; prestige
威亞	(loanword) stunt wires
威信	prestige; reputation; trust
威信掃地	to lose every scrap of reputation
威信縣	Weixin, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
威儀	majestic presence; awe-inspiring manner
威克島	Wake Island (North Pacific Ocean)
威利	Wylie (name)
威利斯	Willis (name)
威力	might; formidable power
威勢	might; power and influence
威化	(loanword) wafer (cookie)
威化餅乾	(loanword) wafer (cookie)
威卜	vaporizer (e-cigarette) (loanword)
威厲	awe-inspiring; majestic
威名	fame for fighting prowess; military glory
威嚇	to threaten; to intimidate; to cow
威嚴	dignified; imposing; august
威基基	Waikiki (Hawaii)
威士	Visa (credit card)
威士忌	whiskey (loanword)
威士忌酒	whiskey (loanword)
威奇托	Wichita (city in Kansas)
威妥瑪	Sir Thomas Francis Wade (1818-1895), British diplomat and sinologist, originator of the Wade-Giles Chinese romanization system
威妥瑪拼法	Wade-Giles system (romanization of Chinese)
威妥瑪拼音	Wade-Giles system (romanization of Chinese)
威客	(neologism c. 2005) freelancer
威容	grave and dignified
威寧彝族回族苗族自治縣	Weining Yi, Hui, and Miao Autonomous County, in Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
威尊命賤	(idiom) the dignity of authority is above life; one must be willing to sacrifice one's life rather than disobey a military order
威尼斯	Venice; Venezia
威尼斯商人	The Merchant of Venice by William Shakespeare
威廉	William or Wilhelm (name)
威廉·福克納	William Faulkner (1897-1962), American novelist and poet
威廉·莎士比亞	William Shakespeare (1564-1616), poet and playwright
威廉斯堡	Williamsburg, Virginia
威德	power and virtue
威懾	to deter
威懾力量	deterrent force; deterrent
威斯康星	Wisconsin, US state
威斯康辛	Wisconsin
威斯敏斯特教堂	Westminster Abbey, London
威望	prestige
威末酒	vermouth (loanword)
威權	authority; power; authoritarianism
威武	might; formidable
威武不屈	not to submit to force
威氏註音法	Wade-Giles transliteration scheme for Chinese
威海市	Weihai, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
威海衛	Weihaiwei, late Qing naval port in Weihai 威海, Shandong
威烈	fierce; formidable
威爾士	Wales, constituent nation of UK
威爾士語	Welsh (language)
威爾特郡	Wiltshire (English county)
威爾遜	Wilson (name)
威猛	bold and powerful
威瑪	(Tw) Weimar, Germany
威瑪共和國	Weimar Republic (German Reich, 1919-1933)
威瑪拼法	Wade-Giles system (romanization of Chinese)
威瑪拼音	Wade-Giles system (romanization of Chinese)
威福自己	to exercise power arbitrarily (idiom)
威縣	Wei County or Weixian, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
威翟	Wade-Giles (romanization system for Chinese)
威而鋼	Viagra (male impotence drug) (Tw)
威脅	to threaten; to menace
威迫	coercion; to intimidate
威逼	to threaten; to coerce; to intimidate
威逼利誘	to make threats and promises
威遠縣	Weiyuan, a county in Neijiang City 內江市|内江市[Nei4 jiang1 Shi4], Sichuan
威重	august; majestic
威震	to inspire awe
威震天下	to inspire awe throughout the empire (idiom)
威靈	authority; prestige; supernatural spirit
威靈頓	Wellington, capital of New Zealand (Tw); Wellington (name)
威顯	awe-inspiring; power
威風	awe-inspiring bearing; authority; power
威風凜凜	majestic; awe-inspiring presence; impressive power
威駭	to intimidate
威鳳一羽	lit. one phoenix feather; fig. a glimpse that reveals the whole
娂	(used in female names)
娃	baby; doll
娃兒	children (colloquial)
娃娃	baby; small child; doll
娃娃兵	child soldier
娃娃生	infant's part in opera, usually played by child actor
娃娃臉	baby face; doll face
娃娃菜	baby Chinese cabbage (mini-sized variety)
娃娃裝	baby-doll dress
娃娃親	arranged betrothal of minors
娃娃車	kindergarten bus; baby carriage; stroller
娃娃音	childlike voice; babyish voice
娃娃魚	Chinese giant salamander (Andrias davidianus)
娃子	baby; small child; (arch.) slave among ethnic minorities
娉	used in 娉婷[ping1 ting2]
娉婷	(literary) (of a woman) to have a graceful demeanor; beautiful woman
娉婷裊娜	(idiom) (of a woman) gorgeous and graceful; lithe and lovely
娌	used in 妯娌[zhou2 li5]
娑	(phonetic)
娒	(used in personal names)
娓	used in 娓娓[wei3 wei3]
娓娓	(to speak) at length; engagingly; captivatingly
娓娓動聽	(idiom) to speak in a pleasant and captivating manner
娓娓而談	(idiom) to speak engagingly
娘	mother; young lady; (coll.) effeminate
娘倆	(coll.) mother and her child
娘兒們	(dialect) woman; wife
娘娘	queen; empress; imperial concubine
娘娘廟	temple of Goddess of Fertility
娘娘腔	sissy; effeminate
娘媽	(coll.) woman
娘子	(dialect) form of address for one's wife
娘家	wife's family (before marriage)
娘家姓	maiden name (of married woman)
娘希匹	(dialect) fuck!
娘惹	Nyonya
娘炮	(slang) effeminate man; sissy; effeminate
娘的	same as 媽的|妈的[ma1 de5]
娘胎	womb
娘親	mother
娛	to amuse
娛樂	to entertain; to amuse; entertainment
娛樂中心	amusement park; recreation center; entertainment center
娛樂圈	the entertainment world; show business
娛樂場	place of entertainment; casino; resort
娛樂場所	place of entertainment
娛樂界	the entertainment world; show business
娛遣	amusement
娜	elegant; graceful
娜塔莉	Natalie (name)
娜娜	Nana (name); Nana (1880 novel by Émile Zola)
娟	beautiful; graceful
娟秀	beautiful; graceful
娠	pregnant
娣	wife of a younger brother
娣姒	sisters-in-law (old); various concubines of a husband (old)
娥	good; beautiful
娩	to give birth to a child
娭	granny (dialect); respectful form of address for older lady
娭姐	father's mother; granny (dialect)
娵	(feminine name); (star)
娶	to take a wife; to marry (a woman)
娶妻	to take a wife; to get married (man)
娶媳婦	to get oneself a wife; to take a daughter-in-law
娶親	to take a wife
娸	to ridicule; ugly
娼	prostitute
娼女	prostitute
娼妓	prostitute
娼婦	prostitute
娼家	brothel
婀	graceful; willowy; unstable
婀娜	(of a woman) graceful; elegant; lithe
婁	surname Lou; one of the 28 lunar mansions in Chinese astronomy
婁子	trouble; blunder
婁宿	Bond (Chinese constellation)
婁底市	Loudi, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
婁星區	Louxing, a district of Loudi City 婁底市|娄底市[Lou2 di3 Shi4], Hunan
婁煩縣	Loufan, a county in Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
婆	(bound form) grandmother; (bound form) matron
婆姨	(dialect) wife; married woman
婆娑	to swirl about; (of leaves and branches) to sway
婆娘	(dialect) wife; (derog.) woman
婆婆	husband's mother; mother-in-law; grandma
婆婆媽媽	effeminate; old-womanish; garrulous
婆媳	mother-in-law and daughter-in-law
婆子	old woman
婆家	husband's family (traditionally where the wife moves into)
婆心	(literary) kindheartedness
婆羅洲	Borneo island (of Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei)
婆羅浮屠	Borobudur (in Java, Indonesia)
婆羅門	Brahmin
婆羅門教	Brahmanism; Hinduism
婉	graceful; tactful
婉妙	sweet; soft; lovely (of sounds and voices)
婉拒	to tactfully decline; to turn down gracefully
婉稱	euphemism (tactful expression for sth unpleasant such as death)
婉約	graceful and subdued (style)
婉言	tactful; diplomatic; mild and indirect
婉詞	euphemism
婉轉	(voice, music) suave; mellow; (speech) indirect
婉辭	tactful expression; to politely decline
婊	prostitute
婊子	prostitute; whore
婐	(archaic) maid
婕	used in 婕妤[jie2 yu2]
婕妤	second-rank concubine (title for an imperial concubine ranked two levels below the empress)
婚	(bound form) marriage; wedding; (bound form) to marry
婚事	wedding; marriage
婚介	matchmaking; marriage introduction service (abbr. for 婚姻介紹|婚姻介绍[hun1 yin1 jie4 shao4])
婚介所	matchmaking agency; dating service (abbr. for 婚姻介紹所|婚姻介绍所[hun1 yin1 jie4 shao4 suo3])
婚俗	marriage custom
婚假	marriage leave
婚典	wedding; marriage celebration
婚前	premarital; prenuptial
婚前性行為	premarital sex
婚前財產公證	prenuptial agreement; dowry contract
婚友	singles seeking marriage partners; in-laws and friends
婚史	marital history
婚外	extramarital
婚外情	extramarital affair
婚姻	marriage; matrimony
婚姻介紹所	marriage agency
婚姻法	marriage law
婚姻調解	marriage counseling
婚嫁	marriage
婚宴	wedding reception
婚後	after getting married
婚慶	wedding celebration
婚戀	love and marriage
婚戒	wedding ring
婚房	newlyweds' home
婚書	(old) marriage contract
婚期	wedding day
婚神星	Juno, an asteroid
婚禮	wedding ceremony; wedding
婚筵	wedding reception
婚約	engagement; wedding contract
婚紗	wedding dress
婚紗攝影	wedding photos (done in studio, kit and caboodle taken care of by the studio)
婚變	marriage upheaval (infidelity, divorce etc); marriage breakup
婚車	wedding car
婚配	to marry
婚驢	(derog.) (slang) married woman (term used by some feminists to imply that by marrying, women make themselves subservient to the patriarchal order)
婚齡	length of married life; marriageable age; actual marrying age
婞	upright
婢	slave girl; maid servant
婢女	slave girl; servant girl
婤	(feminine name)
婥	used in 婥約|婥约[chuo4 yue1]
婦	woman
婦人	married woman
婦人之仁	excessive tendency to clemency (idiom); soft-hearted (pejorative)
婦女	woman
婦女主任	director of the local committee of the Women's Federation
婦女節	International Women's Day (March 8)
婦女能頂半邊天	Woman can hold up half the sky
婦女運動	women's movement; feminism
婦好	Fu Hao (c. 1200 BC), or Lady Hao, female Chinese general of the late Shang Dynasty 商朝[Shang1 chao2]
婦姑勃谿	dispute among womenfolk (idiom); family squabbles
婦孺	women and children
婦孺皆知	understood by everyone (idiom); well known; a household name
婦幼	women and children
婦檢	gynecological examination (abbr. for 婦科檢查|妇科检查[fu4 ke1 jian3 cha2])
婦洗器	bidet
婦產科	department of gynecology and obstetrics; birth clinic
婦科	gynecology
婦聯	women's league; women's association
婦道人家	woman (derog.)
婧	(literary) (of a woman) slender; delicate
婨	(used in female names) (old)
婪	avaricious
婬	obscene, licentious, lewd
婭	(literary) term of address between husbands of sisters
婮	(used in female names)
婷	graceful
婹	svelte; sylphlike
婺	beautiful
婺城區	Wucheng, a district of Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
婺女	(name of a constellation)
婺源縣	Wuyuan, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
婼	recalcitrant
婽	good
婿	son-in-law; husband
媁	to appear displeased; beautiful
媄	beautiful
媅	content; happy
媊	planet Venus in the morning
媏	(used in female names) (old)
媒	medium; intermediary; matchmaker
媒人	matchmaker
媒人婆	female matchmaker
媒介	intermediary; vehicle; vector
媒合	to match up (employers and jobseekers, men and women seeking a partner, blind people and guide dogs etc)
媒妁	(literary) (marital) matchmaker; go-between
媒妁之言	(idiom) matchmaker's services (in establishing an arranged marriage)
媒婆	female matchmaker
媒材	medium (art) (Tw)
媒界	media industry
媒質	medium
媒體	media, esp. news media
媒體自由	freedom of the media
媒體訪問控制	Media Access Control; MAC
媕	used in 媕婀[an1 e1]
媕婀	(literary) hesitant; indecisive
媖	(complimentary name for a woman)
媚	(bound form) to flatter; (bound form) charming
媚世	(literary) to pander to popular tastes; to conform opportunistically to prevailing trends
媚俗	to cater to the public's taste; kitsch; commercial
媚外	to fawn on foreigners; to pander to foreign powers
媚娃	Veela (Harry Potter)
媚惑	to charm; to bewitch
媚態	seductive appearance; fawning manner
媚男	(slang) to pander to men
媚眼	charming eyes; coquettish glances
媚笑	enchanting smile
媚詞	flattery
媛	(bound form) beautiful woman (in practice, often pronounced [yuan2])
媞	used as phonetic; female name
媟	to lust for
媠	beautiful
媢	envious
媧	surname Wa; sister of legendary emperor Fuxi 伏羲[Fu2 xi1]
媩	(used in female names) (old)
媬	governess; nurse
媮	improper; irregular
媯	surname Gui; name of a river
媰	pregnant woman (archaic)
媲	to match; to pair
媲美	to match; is comparable with
媳	daughter-in-law
媳婦	(dialect) wife; (dialect) young married woman
媳婦兒	erhua form of 媳婦|媳妇[xi2 fu4]
媳婦熬成婆	lit. even a submissive daughter-in-law will one day become a domineering mother-in-law (idiom)
媵	maid escorting bride to new home; concubine
媵侍	concubine (old)
媸	ugly woman
媺	beautiful
媻	to move
媼	old woman
媼神	(archaic) Earth Deity (name used in the Han dynasty, but later largely superseded by 后土[Hou4 tu3])
媽	ma; mom; mother
媽了個巴子	fuck!; motherfucker!; fucking
媽咪	mommy (loanword)
媽媽	mama; mommy; mother
媽媽桑	(from Japanese "mama-san") female manager of a hostess club, brothel or similar establishment; madam
媽寶	mama's boy
媽惹法克	motherfucker (loanword)
媽拉個巴子	fuck!; motherfucker!; fucking
媽的法克	motherfucker (loanword)
媽祖	Matsu, name of a sea goddess still widely worshipped on the SE China coast and in SE Asia
媽賣批	(vulgar) your mom's a prostitute (from Sichuan pronunciation of 媽賣屄|妈卖屄[ma1 mai4 bi1])
媾	to marry; to copulate
媾合	to copulate
媾和	to make peace; to copulate
嫁	(of a woman) to marry; to marry off a daughter; to shift (blame etc)
嫁人	(of a woman) to get married; to take a husband
嫁女	to marry off a daughter
嫁妝	dowry
嫁娶	marriage
嫁接	to graft (a branch or bud onto a rootstock)
嫁禍	to impute; to shift the blame onto someone else
嫁禍於人	to pass the misfortune on to sb else (idiom); to blame others
嫁資	dowry
嫁雞隨雞	If you marry a chicken, follow the chicken (idiom); A woman should follow whatever her husband orders.
嫁雞隨雞，嫁狗隨狗	if you marry a chicken follow the chicken, if you marry a dog follow the dog (idiom)
嫂	(bound form) older brother's wife; sister-in-law
嫂嫂	older brother's wife; sister-in-law
嫂子	(coll.) older brother's wife; sister-in-law
嫄	name of an empress
嫈	attentively; carefully
嫉	jealousy; to be jealous of
嫉妒	to be jealous of; to envy
嫉恨	to hate out of jealousy; to resent
嫉惡如仇	(idiom) to hate evil as one hates an enemy
嫉賢妒能	(idiom) to envy the virtuous and talented
嫋	delicate; graceful
嫌	to dislike; suspicion; resentment
嫌厭	to loathe
嫌忌	suspicion
嫌怨	grievance; hatred
嫌恨	hatred
嫌惡	to loathe; to abhor; hatred
嫌棄	to regard with disdain; to shun
嫌犯	criminal suspect
嫌猜	suspicion
嫌疑	suspicion; to have suspicions
嫌疑人	a suspect
嫌疑犯	a suspect
嫌貧愛富	to favor the rich and disdain the poor (idiom); snobbish
嫌隙	hostility; animosity
嫏	used in 嫏嬛[Lang2 huan2]
嫏嬛	mythical place where the Celestial Emperor stores his books
嫐	to tease; to play around with
嫑	(dialect) don't; must not (contracted form of 不要[bu4 yao4])
嫕	compliant; yielding; easygoing
嫖	to visit a prostitute
嫖妓	to visit a prostitute
嫖娼	to visit prostitutes; to go whoring
嫖客	patron of a brothel
嫖宿	to spend the night at a brothel
嫖資	prostitute's fee for service
嫗	old woman; to brood over; to protect
嫘	surname Lei
嫘縈	rayon
嫙	beautiful; fine
嫚	(dialect) girl
嫚子	(dialect) girl
嫜	husband's father
嫠	(bound form) widow
嫠婦	(formal) widow
嫠節	chastity of a widow (old usage)
嫡	(bound form) of or by the wife, as opposed to a concubine (contrasted with 庶[shu4])
嫡傳	handed down in a direct line from the founder
嫡出	born of the wife (i.e. not of a concubine)
嫡堂	having the same paternal grandfather but different father
嫡子	son, esp. the eldest son, of the wife (contrasted with 庶子[shu4 zi3])
嫡母	father's wife (term used by the children of a concubine to address their father's primary wife)
嫡系	direct line of descent; under one's personal command
嫡親	closely related by blood
嫣	(literary) lovely; sweet
嫣然	beautiful; sweet; engaging
嫣然一笑	(idiom) to smile sweetly
嫣紅	bright red
嫦	used in 嫦娥[Chang2 e2]; used in female given names
嫦娥	Chang'e, the lady in the moon (Chinese mythology)
嫩	young and tender; (of food) tender; lightly cooked; (of color) light
嫩主	newbie
嫩江市	Nenjiang, a county-level city in Heihe City 黑河市[Hei1 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
嫩綠	tender green; soft green
嫩肉粉	meat tenderizer powder
嫩芽	tender shoots
嫩苗	seedling; tender young shoot; sprout
嫩葉	tender young leaves
嫪	longing (unrequited passion)
嫪毐	Lao Ai (-238 BC), man of Qin famous for his giant penis
嫫	ugly woman
嫬	old character used in female names
嫭	beautiful; a beauty
嫵	used in 嫵媚|妩媚[wu3 mei4]
嫵媚	lovely; charming
嫻	elegant; refined; to be skilled at
嫻淑	ladylike
嫻熟	adept; skilled
嫻雅	refined; graceful; elegant
嫻靜	gentle and refined
嫽	good; smart; to play
嫿	tranquil
嬃	(dialect) elder sister (old)
嬅	beautiful; used in girls' names
嬈	graceful
嬉	(literary) to amuse oneself; to play; to have fun
嬉戲	to frolic; to romp
嬉皮	hippie (loanword) (Tw)
嬉皮士	hippie (loanword)
嬉皮笑臉	all smiles; smiling mischievously or ingratiatingly
嬉笑	to be laughing and playing; to giggle
嬉笑怒罵	lit. laughs, jeers, anger and invective (idiom)
嬉耍	to play
嬉遊	to amuse oneself; to have fun
嬋	used in 嬋娟|婵娟[chan2 juan1] and 嬋媛|婵媛[chan2 yuan2]
嬋娟	(literary) beautiful woman; (literary) lovely; graceful
嬋媛	(literary) (of a woman) graceful; (literary) to be interwoven
嬌	lovable; pampered; tender
嬌兒	beloved son
嬌喘	faint breathing
嬌嗔	(of a girl) to feign anger coquettishly
嬌妻	lovely wife
嬌媚	flirtatious; coquettish; sweet and charming
嬌嫩	tender and lovely; fragile; delicate
嬌嬌女	pampered girl from an affluent family
嬌寵	to indulge; to spoil
嬌小	petite; delicate; dainty
嬌弱	delicate
嬌惰	pampered and lazy; indolent; without energy
嬌態	charming attitude; lascivious pose
嬌慣	to pamper; to coddle; to spoil
嬌氣	delicate; squeamish; finicky
嬌滴滴	sweet; cute; delicately pretty
嬌生慣養	pampered and spoiled since childhood
嬌痴	spoilt and naive
嬌紅	tender pink
嬌縱	to indulge (a child); to pamper; to spoil
嬌美	dainty
嬌羞	bashful; shy; shyness
嬌翠	tender green (shoots)
嬌豔	tender and beautiful
嬌貴	pampered; fragile; finicky
嬌黃	tender yellow
嬎	(dialect) (of birds) to lay eggs
嬎蛋	(dialect) (of birds) to lay eggs
嬔	(archaic) baby rabbit
嬖	(treat as a) favorite
嬗	(literary) to go through successive changes; to evolve
嬗變	(literary) to evolve; to change; (physics) transmutation
嬙	female court officials
嬛	used in 便嬛[pian2 xuan1]
嬝	delicate; graceful
嬡	used in 令嬡|令嫒[ling4 ai4]
嬤	dialectal or obsolete equivalent of 媽|妈[ma1]; Taiwan pr. [ma1]
嬤嬤	(dialect) elderly lady; wet nurse; Catholic nun
嬦	(archaic) used in ladies' names
嬪	imperial concubine
嬪妃	imperial concubine
嬫	(used in female names)
嬬	mistress, concubine; weak
嬭	mother
嬰	infant; baby
嬰兒	infant; baby; lead (Pb)
嬰兒床	crib; baby's bed
嬰兒手推車	baby buggy
嬰兒期	infancy
嬰兒潮	baby boom
嬰兒猝死綜合症	sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS); crib death
嬰兒車	baby carriage; pram; stroller
嬰孩	infant
嬰幼兒	baby
嬰猴	galago; bush baby
嬲	to tease; to disturb
嬴	surname Ying
嬴政	Ying Zheng (260-210 BC), personal name of the first emperor 秦始皇[Qin2 Shi3 huang2]
嬸	wife of father's younger brother
嬸娘	wife of father's younger brother; aunt
嬸嬸	wife of father's younger brother; aunt
嬸子	(coll.) wife of father's younger brother; aunt
嬸母	wife of father's younger brother; aunt
嬿	lovely
孀	(bound form) widow
孀婦	(formal) widow
孀居	to live in widowhood (formal)
孀閨	a widow's chamber (old usage)
孅	cunning; slender
孌	beautiful
孌童	catamite (boy as homosexual partner); kept man; gigolo
孌童戀	pederasty
子	noun suffix, as in 椅子[yi3 zi5] "chair"
子丑	first two of the twelve earthly branches 十二地支
子丑寅卯	(idiom) a full and coherent account of a matter; the complete facts of the case; the whole story
子代	offspring; child's generation
子供向	(of a game, movie etc) intended for children (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 子供向け "kodomo-muke")
子兒	(coll.) penny; buck
子公司	subsidiary company; subsidiary corporation
子午線	meridian
子句	clause (grammar)
子品牌	sub-brand
子嗣	son; heir
子囊菌	ascomycete
子域	subfield (math.)
子夜	midnight
子女	children; sons and daughters
子子孫孫	(idiom) one's posterity
子孫	offspring; posterity
子孫娘娘	goddess of fertility
子宮	uterus; womb
子宮內膜異位症	(medicine) endometriosis
子宮內避孕器	intrauterine device (IUD)
子宮壁	wall of the uterus
子宮托	pessary
子宮環	intrauterine device (IUD)
子宮肌瘤	fibroid tumor of the uterus; hysteromyoma
子宮頸	cervix; the neck of the uterus
子宮頸抹片	cervical smear (Tw)
子宮頸癌	cervical cancer
子宮頸管	(anatomy) cervical canal
子層	sublayer
子弟	child; the younger generation
子彈	bullet
子房	ovary (botany)
子承父業	(idiom) (of a son) to carry on one's father's business or profession
子時	11 pm-1 am (in the system of two-hour subdivisions used in former times)
子曰	Confucius says:
子模型	submodel
子母	mother and son; interest and capital
子母彈	(military) cluster bomb; shrapnel
子母扣	snap fastener
子母炮彈	artillery cluster bomb
子母炸彈	cluster bomb
子民	people
子洲縣	Zizhou, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
子爵	viscount
子產	Zi Chan (?-522 BC), statesman and philosopher during the Spring and Autumn period
子癲前症	pre-eclampsia, toxaemia of pregnancy (medicine)
子目	subheading; specific item
子目錄	(computing) subdirectory
子程序	subroutine
子空間	(math.) subspace
子粒	seed
子系統	subsystem
子級	(computing) (attributive) child (in a hierarchy)
子細胞	daughter cell
子網	subnetwork
子網屏蔽碼	subnet mask (computing)
子群	subgroup (math.)
子菜單	(computing) submenu
子葉	(botany) cotyledon; seed leaf
子虛烏有	(idiom) to have no basis in fact; to be the product of sb's imagination
子規	cuckoo
子貢	Zi Gong or Duanmu Ci 端木賜|端木赐[Duan1 mu4 Ci4] (520 BC-), disciple of Confucius
子路	Zi Lu (542-480 BC), disciple of Confucius 孔夫子[Kong3 fu1 zi3], also known as Ji Lu 季路[Ji4 Lu4]
子長市	Zichang, a county-level city in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
子集	(math.) subset
子集合	(math.) subset
子音	consonant
子鼠	Year 1, year of the Rat (e.g. 2008)
孑	(literary) lonely; all alone
孑孑	outstanding; conspicuous; prominent
孑孑為義	petty favors
孑孓	mosquito larva; wiggler
孑然	solitary; lonely; alone
孑然一身	to be all alone in the world
孑立	to be alone; to stand in isolation
孑立無依	to stand alone; to have no one to rely on
孑身	all by oneself; all alone
孑遺	survivors; remnants; relict (species etc)
孑遺生物	living fossil
孓	used in 孑孓[jie2 jue2]
孔	hole; classifier for cave dwellings
孔丘	Confucius
孔乙己	Kong Yiji, protagonist of a short story of the same name by Lu Xun 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4] depicting the life of a poor, unsuccessful scholar who clings to his Confucian ideals despite his dismal circumstances
孔叢子	the K'ung family Masters' anthology, collection of dialogues between Confucius and his disciples, possibly forged in third century by Wang Su 王肅|王肃[Wang2 Su4]
孔夫子	Confucius (551-479 BC), Chinese thinker and social philosopher, also known as 孔子[Kong3 zi3]
孔子	Confucius (551-479 BC), Chinese thinker and social philosopher, also known as 孔夫子[Kong3 fu1 zi3]
孔子學院	Confucius Institute, organization established internationally by the PRC, promoting Chinese language and culture
孔子家語	The School Sayings of Confucius, a supplement to the Analects
孔孟	Confucius and Mencius
孔孟之道	the teaching of Confucius and Mencius
孔尚任	Kong Shangren (1648-1718), Qing dramatist and poet, author of The Peach Blossom Fan 桃花扇[Tao2 hua1 Shan4]
孔廟	Confucian temple
孔徑	diameter of hole
孔德	Auguste Comte (1798-1857), French philosopher
孔教	Teaching of Confucius; Confucianism
孔斯貝格	Kongsberg (city in Norway)
孔方兄	(coll., humorous) money (so named because in former times, Chinese coins had a square hole in the middle)
孔明	courtesy name of Zhuge Liang 諸葛亮|诸葛亮[Zhu1 ge3 Liang4]
孔明燈	sky lantern (miniature hot-air balloon used during festivals)
孔林	the Confucius family mausoleum at Qufu 曲阜, rebuilt and extended by every dynasty
孔武	(literary) valorous
孔武有力	courageous and strong (idiom); Herculean (physique etc)
孔殷	urgent; numerous
孔洞	small hole in an object
孔版印刷	screen printing
孔眼	hole (e.g. of sieve or colander)
孔穎達	Kong Yingda (574-648), Confucian scholar
孔穴	aperture; hole; cavity
孔聖人	the Sage Confucius
孔融	Kong Rong (153-208), poet of the Three Kingdoms period
孔融讓梨	Kong Rong giving up pears, classic moral story about Kong Rong 孔融[Kong3 Rong2] picking up smaller pears while leaving the bigger ones to his older brothers, still used nowadays to educate the young on courtesy and modesty
孔道	opening providing access; the teaching of Confucius
孔門	Confucius' school (i.e. his direct disciples)
孔院	Confucius Institute (abbr. for 孔子學院|孔子学院[Kong3 zi3 Xue2 yuan4])
孔隙	pore (geology)
孔雀	peafowl; peacock
孔雀女	(Internet slang) spoiled city girl from a rich family
孔雀座	Pavo (constellation)
孔雀河	Peacock River in Xinjiang
孔雀王朝	Maurya Dynasty of India (322-185 BC)
孕	pregnant
孕吐	morning sickness (during pregnancy)
孕婦	pregnant woman
孕婦裝	maternity wear
孕嬰童	(market segment) maternity and early childhood
孕寶寶	(coll.) child in the womb
孕期	pregnancy; gestation
孕激素	progesterone
孕產	pregnancy and childbirth; obstetrics and gynecology
孕穗	(grain farming) booting (i.e. the swelling of the leaf sheath due to panicle growth)
孕童	(market segment) maternity and early childhood
孕育	to be pregnant; to produce offspring
孕酮	progesterone
孖	twins
字	letter; symbol; character
字串	(computing) character string (Tw)
字元	character (computing) (Tw)
字元集	character set
字典	Chinese character dictionary (containing entries for single characters, contrasted with a 詞典|词典[ci2 dian3], which has entries for words of one or more characters)
字句	words; expressions; writing
字圖	glyph
字型	font; typeface
字字珠玉	every word a gem (idiom); magnificent writing
字字珠璣	(idiom) every word is a gem
字尾	suffix
字帖	piece of paper with short note; short letter
字帖兒	piece of paper with short note; short letter
字幕	subtitles; captions (of a movie etc)
字彙	Zihui, Chinese character dictionary with 33,179 entries, released in 17th century
字形	form of a Chinese character
字據	written pledge; contract; IOU
字數	number of written characters; number of words; word count
字斟句酌	weighing every word
字書	character book (i.e. school primer)
字林	Zilin, Chinese character dictionary with 12,824 entries from ca. 400 AD
字根	component of a Chinese character; (linguistics) word root; etymon
字根表	table of components used in wubi input method 五筆輸入法|五笔输入法[wu3 bi3 shu1 ru4 fa3]
字根通用碼	common coding for components of Chinese character
字條	brief note
字樣	model or template character; written slogan or phrase
字正腔圓	to enunciate beautifully (in speaking or singing) (idiom)
字段	(numeric, data) field
字母	letter (of the alphabet)
字母表	alphabet
字母詞	word that contains one or more letters of an alphabet (e.g. HSK, PK, WTO, PO文, PM2.5, γ射線|γ射线[γ she4 xian4])
字母順序	alphabetical order
字源	etymology (of a non-Chinese word); origin of a character
字畫	the strokes of a character; calligraphy and painting
字眼	wording
字碼	character code
字符	character (computing)
字符串	string (computing)
字符集	character set (e.g. ASCII 美國資訊交換標準碼|美国资讯交换标准码 or Unicode 統一碼|统一码)
字節	(computing) byte
字節數	byte count
字節跳動	ByteDance, Beijing-based Internet technology company founded in 2012
字紙簍	wastepaper basket
字素	grapheme
字組	block (of data); code word
字義	meaning of a character
字腳	serif; hook at the end of brushstroke
字號	characters and numbers (as used in a code); alphanumeric code
字裡行間	between the words and the lines (idiom); implied meaning; connotations
字詞	letters or words; words or phrase
字調	tone of a character
字謎	letter puzzle
字跡	handwriting
字重	font weight
字集	character set
字面	literal; typeface
字音	phonetic value of a character
字頭	single-character headword (in a dictionary)
字首	prefix
字體	calligraphic style; typeface; font
存	to exist; to deposit; to store
存亡	to live or die; to exist or perish
存亡攸關	a make-or-break matter; a matter of life and death
存儲	to store up; to stockpile; (computer) to save
存儲卡	memory card
存儲器	memory (computing)
存入	to deposit (e.g. in a bank account)
存取	to store and retrieve (money, belongings etc)
存單	certificate of deposit
存在	to exist; to be; existence
存在主義	existentialism
存在感	sense of presence; sense of existence
存心	deliberately
存戶	depositor (in bank or shares)
存摺	passbook; bankbook
存放	to deposit; to store; to leave in sb's care
存有	to hold in storage; to retain; to harbor (feelings)
存根	stub
存檔	to archive; to place on file; saved data (for a video game etc)
存欄	(of livestock) being raised; on hand
存款	to deposit money (in a bank etc); bank savings; bank deposit
存款人	depositor
存款准備金	reserve requirement (finance)
存款單	certificate of deposit
存款準備金率	deposit-reserve ratio
存款證	certificate of deposit
存水彎	trap (plumbing); U-bend
存活	to survive (a serious accident); survival
存活率	(med.) survival rate; (med.) recovery rate
存留	remaining; extant
存疑	to leave a question open; to hold doubts; to be skeptical
存簿	savings book; bank account passbook
存續	to continue to exist
存託憑證	depository share; depository receipt (DR)
存貨	stock; inventory (of material)
存貸	bank deposits and loans
存貸款	savings deposits and loans
存車場	bike park
存車處	parking lot (for bicycles)
存量	reserves
存錢	to deposit money; to save money
存錢罐	piggy bank; coin bank; money box
存食	(of food) to retain in stomach due to indigestion (TCM)
孚	to trust; to believe in
孛	comet
孛星	comet (arch.)
孜	used in 孜孜[zi1 zi1]
孜孜	diligent; hardworking; industrious
孜孜不倦	lit. diligent and never slacking (idiom); continuous concentrated effort
孜孜以求	diligent and tireless (idiom)
孜孜矻矻	diligently
孜然	(loanword from Uyghur) cumin (Cuminum cyminum)
孜然芹	cumin
孝	filial piety or obedience; mourning apparel
孝南區	Xiaonan, a district of Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
孝子	filial son
孝廉	xiaolian, two examination subjects in Han, later a single subject in Ming and Qing
孝心	filial piety (a Confucian obligation)
孝思不匱	to be forever filial (idiom)
孝悌	filial piety and fraternal duty
孝悌忠信	Confucian moral injunctions of fidelity
孝感市	Xiaogan, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
孝成王	King Xiaocheng of Zhao 趙國|赵国, reigned 266-245 BC
孝敬	to show filial respect
孝昌縣	Xiaochang, a county in Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
孝服	mourning clothes
孝經	Xiaojing (Classic of Filial Piety)
孝義市	Xiaoyi, a county-level city in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
孝聖憲	Empress Xiaoshengxian (1693-1777), consort of Emperor Yongzheng 雍正[Yong1 zheng4] and mother of Emperor Qianlong 乾隆[Qian2 long2]
孝肅	Xiaosu, posthumous name of Bao Zheng 包拯[Bao1 Zheng3] (999-1062), Northern Song official renowned for his honesty
孝衣	mourning garment
孝道	filial piety (Confucian virtue); to be a good son or daughter
孝順	filial; dutiful; devoted to one's parents (and grandparents etc)
孟	first month of a season; eldest amongst brothers
孟加拉	Bengal; Bangladesh
孟加拉人民共和國	People's Republic of Bangladesh (formerly East Pakistan)
孟加拉國	Bangladesh
孟加拉灣	Bay of Bengal
孟加拉語	Bengali (language)
孟嘗君	Lord Menchang of Qi, Chancellor of Qi and of Wei during the Warring States Period (475-221 BC)
孟夏	the first month of summer (i.e. the fourth lunisolar month)
孟姜女	heroine of Qin dynasty 秦朝 folk tale, who searched for her husband, and whose tears broke down a stretch of the Great Wall to reveal his body
孟婆	(Chinese folk religion) Meng Po, goddess who gives a potion to souls before they are reincarnated, which makes them forget their previous life
孟婆湯	potion given to souls by the goddess Meng Po 孟婆[Meng4 po2] before they are reincarnated that makes them forget their previous existence
孟子	Mencius (c. 372-c. 289 BC), Confucian philosopher second only to Confucius
孟州市	Mengzhou, a county-level city in Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
孟德斯鳩	Charles Montesquieu (1689-1755), French political philosopher
孟思誠	Maeng Saseong (1360-1438), Korean politician of the Goryeo-Joseon transition, famous for his honesty and wisdom
孟村回族自治縣	Mengcun Hui Autonomous County, in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
孟津區	Mengjin, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
孟浩然	Meng Haoran (689-740), Tang Dynasty Poet
孟浪	hasty; rash; impetuous
孟良崮	Mt Mengliang in Mengyin county 蒙陰縣|蒙阴县[Meng2 yin1 xian4], Linyi 臨沂|临沂[Lin2 yi2], Shandong
孟良崮戰役	Battle of Mt Mengliang in Shandong of 1947 between the Nationalists and Communists
孟菲斯	Memphis (Egypt or Tennessee)
孟買	Mumbai (formerly Bombay)
孟軻	Mencius 孟子 (c. 372-c. 289), Confucian philosopher
孟連傣族拉祜族佤族自治縣	Menglian Dai, Lahu and Va Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
孟郊	Meng Jiao (751-814), Tang dynasty essayist and poet
孢	spore
孢子	spore
季	season; the last month of a season
季世	final phase; end of a historical era
季候	season
季冬	final month of winter (i.e. twelfth month of lunar calendar)
季刊	quarterly publication
季報	quarterly report
季夏	final month of summer (i.e. sixth month of lunar calendar)
季子	youngest brother; a period of two or three months
季度	quarter of a year; season (sports)
季後賽	a playoff
季春	final month of spring (i.e. third month of lunar calendar)
季會	quarterly meeting
季父	uncle (father's youngest brother)
季相	characteristic nature of some season
季節	time; season; period
季節性	seasonal
季經	(coll.) menstruation that comes only once every three months
季羨林	Ji Xianlin (1911-2009), Chinese linguist and Indologist
季肋	(anatomy) the floating ribs
季肋區	(anatomy) hypochondriac region
季莫申科	Tymoshenko (name); Yulia Tymoshenko (1960-), Ukrainian politician
季諾	a promise that can be realized
季路	Ji Lu (542-480 BC), disciple of Confucius 孔夫子[Kong3 fu1 zi3], also known as 子路[Zi3 Lu4]
季軍	third in a race; bronze medalist
季雨林	monsoon forest
季風	monsoon
季黎諾	Quirinius, governor of Syria (c. 51 BC - AD 21)
孤	lone; lonely
孤例	isolated case; sole instance
孤傲	proud and aloof
孤僻	unsociable; withdrawn; reclusive
孤兒	orphan
孤兒藥	orphan drug
孤兒院	orphanage; child asylum
孤哀子	(literary) orphan
孤單	lone; lonely; loneliness
孤孀	widow
孤子	orphan; fatherless son
孤孑	lonesome; solitary
孤孑特立	to be all alone in the world
孤家寡人	one who is cut off from others (idiom)
孤寂	lonesome; desolate
孤寒	alone and poor; humble; (Cantonese) miserly
孤寡	orphans and widows; to be lonely; loneliness
孤山	Solitary Hill, located in West Lake, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province
孤島	isolated island
孤征	to act on one's own; to fight alone
孤拐	cheekbone; ankle
孤拔	Amédée Courbet (1826-1885), a French admiral who won a series of important land and naval victories during the Tonkin campaign and the Sino-French War
孤掌難鳴	It's hard to clap with only one hand.; It takes two to tango
孤本	the only extant copy of a book
孤沙錐	(bird species of China) solitary snipe (Gallinago solitaria)
孤注一擲	to stake all on one throw
孤獨	lonely; solitary
孤獨於世	alone in the world (idiom)
孤獨症	autism
孤男寡女	a single man and a single woman; bachelors
孤立	to isolate; isolated; unrelated; irrelevant
孤立子	soliton (physics)
孤立子波	instanton (math.)
孤立無援	isolated and without help
孤絕	isolated; solitary
孤老	solitary old man or woman; regular patron (at brothels)
孤膽	solitary hero; maverick
孤膽英雄	solitary hero; maverick
孤芳自賞	lone flower admiring itself (idiom); narcissism; self-love
孤苦伶仃	solitary and impoverished (idiom)
孤證	sole evidence
孤證不立	unacceptable as uncorroborated evidence (in law or in textual criticism)
孤身	alone; lonely
孤身隻影	lit. a lonely body with only a shadow for company
孤軍奮戰	lit. lone army putting up a brave fight (idiom)
孤陋	ignorant; ill-informed
孤陋寡聞	ignorant and inexperienced; ill-informed and narrow-minded
孤雌生殖	parthenogenesis (biol. a female reproducing without fertilization)
孤零零	lone; isolated and without help; all alone
孤高	arrogant
孤魂	lonely soul
孤魂野鬼	wandering ghosts without living descendants to pray for them (idiom)
孤鳥	lone bird; marginalized (country, person etc)
孤鸞年	inauspicious year for marriage
孥	child; offspring
孨	(Internet slang) the three 子's that symbolize success in life: a house, a car and a wife (房子[fang2 zi5], 車子|车子[che1 zi5] and 妻子[qi1 zi5])
孩	(bound form) child
孩兒	child
孩奴	"a slave to one's children", hard-working parents who would do everything to ensure their children's well-being, in disregard of their own needs
孩子	child
孩子們	children
孩子氣	boyish; childish; childishness
孩提	(literary) infant; young child
孩童	child
孫	grandson; descendant
孫中山	Dr Sun Yat-sen (1866-1925), first president of the Republic of China and co-founder of the Guomintang 國民黨|国民党
孫傳芳	Sun Chuanfang (1885-1935) one of the northern warlord, murdered in Tianjin in 1935
孫兒	son's son; grandson
孫吳縣	Sunwu, a county in Heihe City 黑河市[Hei1 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
孫堅	Sun Jian (155-191), famous general at end of Han dynasty, forerunner of the southern kingdom of Wu of the Three Kingdoms
孫大聖	Great-Sage Sun; Sun Wukong 孫悟空|孙悟空[Sun1 Wu4 kong1]
孫女	son's daughter; granddaughter
孫女兒	granddaughter (son's daughter)
孫女婿	son's daughter's husband; granddaughter's husband
孫媳婦	son's son's wife; grandson's wife
孫子	Sun Tzu, also known as Sun Wu 孫武|孙武[Sun1 Wu3] (c. 500 BC, dates of birth and death uncertain), general, strategist and philosopher of the Spring and Autumn Period (700-475 BC), believed to be the author of the “Art of War” 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3], one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1]
孫子兵法	“Art of War”, one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1], written by Sun Tzu 孫子|孙子[Sun1 zi3]
孫子定理	the Chinese remainder theorem
孫山	Sun Shan, Song Dynasty joker and talented scholar
孫思邈	Sun Simiao (c. 581-682), doctor and herbalist of the Sui and Tang dynasty, author of Prescriptions Worth a Thousand in Gold 千金要方[Qian1 jin1 Yao4 fang1]
孫悅	Sun Yue (1973-), PRC female pop star
孫悟空	Sun Wukong, the Monkey King, character with supernatural powers in the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]
孫文	the original name of 孫中山|孙中山[Sun1 Zhong1 shan1], Dr Sun Yat-sen (1866-1925), first president of the Republic of China and co-founder of the Guomintang 國民黨|国民党[Guo2 min2 dang3]
孫權	Sun Quan (reigned 222-252), southern warlord and king of state of Wu 吳|吴[Wu2] in the Three Kingdoms period
孫武	Sun Wu, also known as Sun Tzu 孫子|孙子[Sun1 zi3] (c. 500 BC, dates of birth and death uncertain), general, strategist and philosopher of the Spring and Autumn Period (700-475 BC), believed to be the author of the “Art of War” 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3], one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1]
孫武子	Sun Wu, famous general, strategist and Legalist philosopher, contemporary with Confucius 孔子[Kong3 zi3] (551-479 BC), author of "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3], also known as Sun Tzu 孫子|孙子[Sun1 zi3]
孫毓棠	Sun Yutang (1911-1985), historian and poet, studied in Tokyo, Oxford and Harvard
孫燕姿	Stefanie Sun (1978-), Singaporean singer-songwriter
孫犁	Sun Li (1913-2002), novelist
孫策	Sun Ce (175-200), general and major warlord of the Later Han Dynasty
孫繼海	Sun Jihai (1977-), Chinese footballer, played for Manchester City (2002-2008)
孫臏	Sun Bin (-316 BC), political strategist of the School of Diplomacy 縱橫家|纵横家[Zong4 heng2 jia1] during the Warring States Period (425-221 BC)
孫臏兵法	Sun Bin's "The Art of War"
孫行者	Sun Wukong 孫悟空|孙悟空[Sun1 Wu4 kong1], the Monkey King, character with supernatural powers in the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]
孫誅	Sun Zhu (1711-1778), poet and compiler of Three Hundred Tang Poems 唐詩三百首|唐诗三百首[Tang2 shi1 San1 bai3 Shou3]
孫輩	grandchildren
孫逸仙	Dr Sun Yat-sen (1866-1925), first president of the Republic of China and co-founder of the Kuomintang
孬	(dialect) contracted form of 不好[bu4 hao3]
孬種	coward; useless scoundrel
孭	to carry on the back or shoulders (Cantonese)
孰	who; which; what
孰優孰劣	which of the two is better?
孰料	who would have thought?; who could have imagined?; unexpectedly
孰真孰假	what is true and what is fake
孱	(bound form) weak; feeble
孱弱	delicate; frail; impotent; weak
孱頭	(dialect) weakling; coward
孳	industrious; produce; bear
孳乳	to multiply (kinds, difficulties); to reproduce; to derive (compounds)
孳息	interest (from an investment, esp. an endowment)
孳生	to breed; to multiply
孵	breeding; to incubate; to hatch
孵化	breeding; to incubate; innovation (esp. in commerce and marketing)
孵化器	incubator (for eggs or startup businesses)
孵化場	incubator; hatchery (for poultry etc)
孵化期	incubation period; time for sth to develop
孵卵	to hatch; to brood
孵育	to incubate; to rear (chicks)
孵蛋	to incubate
學	to learn; to study; to imitate
學乖	to learn one's lesson the hard way
學人	scholar; learned person
學以致用	(idiom) to study sth in order to apply it
學位	academic degree; place in school
學位論文	dissertation; thesis
學位證書	diploma (for a degree); degree certificate
學分	course credit
學分制	credit system; grading system (in schools, universities etc)
學分小時	credit hour (in an academic credit system)
學到	to learn (sth); to learn about
學制	educational system; length of schooling
學前教育	preschool education; early childhood education
學前班	preschool
學力	scholastic attainments
學區	school district
學區房	a residential property located within the designated catchment area of a desirable school, often sought after by parents to secure school admission for their children
學友	schoolmate; classmate
學名	scientific name; Latin name (of plant or animal)
學名藥	generic drug; generic medicine
學員	student; member of an institution of learning; officer cadet
學問	learning; knowledge; scholarship
學園	academy; campus
學堂	college; school (old)
學報	a scholarly journal; Journal, Bulletin etc
學壞	to follow bad examples; to be corrupted by bad examples
學士	bachelor's degree; person holding a university degree
學士學位	bachelor's degree
學好	to follow good examples
學如逆水行舟，不進則退	study is like rowing upstream – if you don't keep pushing forward, you fall behind
學妹	junior or younger female schoolmate
學姐	senior or older female schoolmate
學子	(literary) student; scholar
學富五車	of great erudition and scholarship (idiom)
學年	academic year
學府	educational establishment
學弟	junior or younger male schoolmate
學徒	apprentice; to serve an apprenticeship
學時	class hour; period
學會	to learn; to master
學會院士	academician; fellow of academy
學期	term; semester
學校	school
學業	studies; schoolwork
學業有成	to be successful in one's studies; academic success
學樣	to follow suit; to imitate sb's example
學步	to learn to walk; (fig.) to learn sth, making unsteady progress
學步車	baby walker; baby walking frame
學歷	educational background; academic qualifications
學派	school of thought
學海	sea of learning; erudite; knowledgeable person
學海泛舟	sailing on the sea of learning (idiom)
學海無涯	sea of learning, no horizon (idiom); no limits to what one still has to learn
學渣	(coll.) unenthusiastic, mediocre student; underachiever
學測	abbr. for 大學學科能力測驗|大学学科能力测验[Da4 xue2 Xue2 ke1 Neng2 li4 Ce4 yan4]
學潮	student protest; campus unrest
學無止境	no end to learning (idiom); There's always something new to study.
學然後知不足	to learn is to know one's ignorance (the Book of Rites 禮記|礼记[Li3 ji4])
學理	scientific principle; theoretical standpoint
學生	student; schoolchild
學生t檢驗	(statistics) Student's t-test
學生會	student union
學生證	student identity card
學生運動	student movement
學界	academic world; academic circles; academia
學監	school official responsible for supervising the students (old)
學碩	academic master's degree (abbr. for 學術學位碩士|学术学位硕士[xue2 shu4 xue2 wei4 shuo4 shi4])
學科	subject; branch of learning; course
學究	pedant
學童	schoolchild
學籍	registration as a current student
學級	class
學習	to learn; to study
學習強國	Xuexi Qiangguo, PRC app designed to teach Xi Jinping Thought, released in 2019
學習時報	Study Times, journal of the Central Party School 中央黨校|中央党校[Zhong1 yang1 Dang3 xiao4]
學者	scholar
學而不厭	study tirelessly (idiom, from Analects)
學而不厭，誨人不倦	study tirelessly, teach with endless enthusiasm (idiom, from Analects)
學而不思則罔，思而不學則殆	To learn without thinking is confusing, to think without learning is dangerous (Confucius)
學而優則仕	one who is successful in one's studies, can become an official (idiom)
學舍	school building; school; (Tw) student dormitory
學藝	to learn a skill or art
學號	student ID number
學術	learning; science; academic
學術圈	academic circles; academia
學術水平	academic level
學術界	academic circles; academia
學術自由	academic freedom
學說	theory; doctrine
學識	erudition; scholarly knowledge
學費	tuition fee; tuition
學運	student movement
學醫	to study medicine
學銜	academic title; rank
學長	senior or older male schoolmate
學門	(Tw) field of knowledge; academic discipline
學院	college; educational institute; school
學院派	academism (art)
學霸	(slang) straight-A student; academic prodigy
學風	style of study; academic atmosphere; school discipline
學齡	school age
孺	surname Ru
孺人	(old) wife; mother
孺子	(literary) child
孺子可教	(idiom) this young person is worth teaching (used to praise sb as promising or capable of being taught)
孻	last
孽	son born of a concubine; disaster; sin
孽報	bad karma
孽子	unfilial son; unworthy son; illegitimate son
孽海花	A Flower in a Sinful Sea, late-Qing novel by Jin Tianhe 金天翮[Jin1 Tian1 he2] and Zeng Pu 曾樸|曾朴[Zeng1 Pu3]
孽畜	evil creature (multipurpose curse); evil domestic animal
孽種	bane of one's existence; vile spawn
孽緣	ill-fated relationship
孽障	evil creature
孿	twins
孿生	(adj.) twin
孿生兄弟	twin brothers
孿生姐妹	twin sisters
宀	"roof" radical (Kangxi radical 40), occurring in 家, 定, 安 etc, referred to as 寶蓋|宝盖[bao3 gai4]
宁	to store; to stand; space between the door and the entrance screen
它	it
它們	they; them
它本身	itself
宄	traitor
宅	residence; (coll.) to stay in at home; to hang around at home
宅女	female geek; female nerd; otaku girl
宅子	house; residence
宅度假	staycation; residential vacation
宅男	a guy who stays at home all the time, typically spending a lot of time playing online games (derived from Japanese "otaku")
宅第	residence; mansion
宅經	The Yellow Emperor's Classic on the Feng Shui of Dwellings
宅舍	house; residence
宅邸	residence of a high-ranking official
宅配	delivery service, primarily C2C and B2C (Tw)
宅院	house; house with a courtyard
宇	room; universe
宇宙	universe; cosmos; space
宇宙學	cosmology
宇宙射線	cosmic ray
宇宙線	cosmic ray
宇宙號	Kosmos, series of earth-orbit satellites operated by the Soviet Union and subsequently Russia
宇宙觀	world view; conception of the universe
宇宙速度	escape velocity
宇宙飛船	spaceship; spacecraft
宇文	a branch of the Xianbei 鮮卑|鲜卑[Xian1 bei1] nomadic people
宇普西龍	upsilon (Greek letter Υυ)
宇航	space flight
宇航員	astronaut
宇航局	space agency
宇航服	spacesuit
守	to guard; to defend; to keep watch
守一而終	to be faithful to one's mate all one's life
守住	to hold on to; to defend; to keep
守信	to keep promises
守信用	to keep one's word; trustworthy
守候	to wait for; to expect; to keep watch
守備	to garrison; to stand guard; on garrison duty
守兵	guard; garrison soldier
守分	to abide by the law; to respect the law
守制	to go into mourning for one's parents
守則	rules; regulations
守勢	defensive position; guard
守口如瓶	lit. to guard one's mouth like a closed bottle (idiom); tight-lipped
守喪	to keep watch beside a coffin; to observe a period of mourning
守土	to guard one's territory; to protect the country
守土有責	duty to defend the country (idiom)
守夜	to be on all-night duty; to be on night watch; to keep a vigil
守孝	to observe mourning for one's parents
守宮	gecko; house lizard
守寡	to live as widow; to observe widowhood
守序	rule-abiding; lawful
守恆	conservation (e.g. of energy, momentum or heat in physics)
守恆定律	conservation law (physics)
守成	to preserve the accomplishments of previous generations
守拙	to remain honest and poor
守敵	enemy defense; enemy garrison
守時	punctual
守更	to keep watch during the night
守服	to observe mourning for one's parents
守望	to keep watch
守望台	watchtower
守望相助	to keep watch and defend one another (idiom, from Mencius); to join forces to defend against external aggressors
守株待兔	lit. to guard a tree-stump, waiting for rabbits (idiom)
守株待兔，緣木求魚	to guard a tree-stump, waiting for rabbits, and climb a tree to catch fish (idiom); without any practical course of action
守株緣木	abbr. for 守株待兔，緣木求魚|守株待兔，缘木求鱼[shou3 zhu1 dai4 tu4 , yuan2 mu4 qiu2 yu2]
守業	to preserve one's heritage
守正不阿	to be strictly just and impartial
守歲	to see in the New Year; to stay up all night on lunar New Year's Eve
守法	to abide by the law
守活寡	to stay at home while one's husband is away; grass widow
守禦	to defend
守空房	to stay home alone (of married woman)
守節	faithful (to the memory of betrothed)
守約	to keep an appointment; to keep one's word
守職	to observe one's duty steadfastly; devoted to one's job
守舊	conservative; reactionary
守舊派	person who sticks to old ways; traditionalist; a conservative
守衛	to guard; to defend
守衛者	defender; a guard
守規矩	to behave oneself; to abide by the rules
守護	to guard; to protect
守護神	protector God; patron saint
守財奴	miser; scrooge
守身	to keep oneself pure; to preserve one's integrity; to remain chaste
守身如玉	to keep oneself pure; to preserve one's integrity; to remain chaste
守車	guard's van (on train); caboose
守軍	defenders
守門	to keep goal; on duty as gatekeeper
守門人	gatekeeper
守門員	goalkeeper
守靈	to keep watch beside a coffin
守齋	to fast
安	(bound form) calm; peaceful; to calm; to set at ease
安丘市	Anqiu, a county-level city in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
安乃近	analgin (loanword)
安之若素	bear hardship with equanimity; regard wrongdoing with equanimity
安人	to pacify the people; landlady (old)
安仁縣	Anren, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
安保	security
安倍	Abe (Japanese surname)
安倍晉三	Abe Shinzo (1954-2022), Japanese LDP politician, prime minister 2006-2007 and from 2012-2020
安克拉治	Anchorage (Alaska)
安克雷奇	Anchorage (city in Alaska)
安全	safe; secure; safety; security
安全問題	safety issue; security issue
安全套	condom
安全局	security bureau
安全島	traffic island; pedestrian refuge
安全帶	seat belt; safety belt
安全帽	safety helmet; hard hat
安全性	security; safety
安全感	sense of security
安全掣	emergency stop
安全措施	safety measure; precaution
安全期	safe period
安全殼	containment vessel
安全氣囊	safety airbag (auto.)
安全港	safe harbor; safe haven
安全無事	safe and sound
安全無虞	safe and secure
安全燈	safety lamp; safelight
安全理事會	(United Nations) Security Council
安全眼罩	safety goggles
安全網	safety net
安全考慮	security concerns; safety considerations
安全褲	safety shorts (worn under a skirt or dress to prevent accidental exposure)
安全詞	(BDSM) safe word
安全閥	safety valve
安分	content with one's lot; knowing one's place
安分守己	to be content with one's lot (idiom); to know one's place
安利	to recommend (a product etc); to promote
安化縣	Anhua, a county in Yiyang City 益陽市|益阳市[Yi4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
安匝	ampere-turn (unit of magnetomotive force)
安卓	Android (operating system for mobile devices)
安南	Annam (Tang Dynasty protectorate located in what is now northern Vietnam)
安南區	Annan district of Tainan City 臺南市|台南市[Tai2 nan2 shi4], Taiwan
安南山脈	Annamite Range, aka Annamese Cordillera, mountain range forming the border between Vietnam and Laos
安卡拉	Ankara, capital of Turkey
安危	safety and danger; safety
安可	encore (loanword)
安史之亂	An-Shi Rebellion (755-763) of 安祿山|安禄山[An1 Lu4 shan1] and 史思明[Shi3 Si1 ming2], a catastrophic setback for Tang dynasty
安吉星	OnStar, an in-vehicle telematics service
安吉爾	angel (loanword)
安吉縣	Anji, a county in Huzhou City 湖州市[Hu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
安哥拉	Angola
安國市	Anguo, a county-level city in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
安圖縣	Antu, a county in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
安土重遷	to hate to leave a place where one has lived long
安圭拉	Anguilla
安地卡及巴布達	Antigua and Barbuda (Tw)
安地斯	the Andes mountains
安培	(loanword) ampere
安培小時	ampere-hour (Ah)
安培表	ammeter
安培計	ammeter
安塔那那利佛	Antananarivo, capital of Madagascar (Tw)
安塞區	Ansai, a district of Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
安士	(HK) (loanword) ounce
安多縣	Amdo, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
安多芬	endorphin (loanword)
安大略湖	Lake Ontario, one of the Great Lakes 五大湖[Wu3 da4 hu2]
安大略省	Ontario province, Canada
安太歲	to propitiate the god of the current year, Tai Sui 太歲|太岁[Tai4 sui4]
安好	safe and sound; well
安好心	to have good intentions
安如泰山	as secure as Mount Taishan; as solid as a rock
安如磐石	as solid as rock (idiom); as sure as houses
安妮	Annie (name)
安娜	Anna (name)
安娜·卡列尼娜	Anna Karenina, novel by Leo Tolstoy 列夫·托爾斯泰|列夫·托尔斯泰[Lie4 fu1 · Tuo1 er3 si1 tai4]
安安	(Tw) (Internet slang) Greetings! (used when it's unknown what time the reader will see one's post, or just to be cute)
安定	stable; calm; settled; to stabilize; Valium; diazepam
安定化	stabilization
安定區	Anding, a district of Dingxi City 定西市[Ding4 xi1 Shi4], Gansu
安定器	(Tw) electrical ballast
安定時間	(control theory) settling time
安定門	Andingmen neighborhood of Beijing
安家	to settle down; to set up a home
安家立業	stable household, established profession (idiom); settled and comfortably off
安家落戶	to make one's home in a place; to settle
安富尊榮	well-off and respected (idiom)
安富恤窮	to give sympathy to the rich and relief to the poor (idiom)
安富恤貧	to give sympathy to the rich and relief to the poor (idiom)
安寢	to sleep peacefully
安寧	peaceful; tranquil; calm
安寧區	Anning, a district of Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
安寧市	Anning, a county-level city in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
安寧片	meprobamate
安寧病房	hospice
安居	to settle down; to live peacefully
安居區	Anju, a district of Suining City 遂寧市|遂宁市[Sui4 ning2 Shi4], Sichuan
安居工程	housing project for low-income urban residents
安居樂業	to live in peace and work happily (idiom)
安山岩	andesite (geology)
安岳縣	Anyue, a county in Ziyang City 資陽市|资阳市[Zi1 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
安州區	Anzhou, a district of Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
安平區	Anping, a district of Tainan 臺南市|台南市[Tai2 nan2 Shi4], Taiwan
安平縣	Anping, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
安康	good health
安康市	Ankang, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
安徒生	Hans Christian Andersen (1805-1875)
安得	(literary) How can one get...?; Oh, if only there were... (rhetorical wish)
安得拉邦	Andhra Pradesh or Andhra State in southeast India
安德海	An Dehai (-1869), the Qing equivalent of Rasputin, all-powerful court eunuch with the dowager empress Cixi 慈禧太后[Ci2 xi3 tai4 hou4], executed in 1869 by her rival Empress Mother Empress Dowager Ci'an 慈安皇太后
安德烈	Andre (person name)
安德肋	Andrew (Catholic transliteration)
安德魯	Andrew (name)
安徽大學	Anhui University
安徽省	Anhui Province, capital Hefei 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4] (short name 皖[Wan3])
安心	at ease; to feel relieved; to set one's mind at rest
安息	Parthia (ancient country in central Asia)
安息國	Parthia
安息日	Sabbath
安息香	Styrax officinalis or Styrax benzoin; benzoin resin (used in TCM)
安息香屬	Styrax (tree genus); snowdrop; benzoin
安息香科	Styracaceae, tree family including silver-bell, snowdrop and benzoin
安息香脂	benzoinum; benzoin resin (used in TCM)
安慰	to comfort; to console
安慰劑	placebo
安慰獎	consolation prize
安慶市	Anqing, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
安打	base hit (baseball)
安抵	to arrive safely
安拉	Allah (Arabic name of God)
安捷倫科技	Agilent Technologies (research and manufacturing company)
安排	to arrange; to plan; to set up
安提法	antifa (loanword)
安提瓜和巴布達	Antigua and Barbuda
安提瓜島	Antigua
安插	to place in a certain position; to assign to a job; to plant
安撫	to placate; to pacify; to appease
安撫奶嘴	(baby's) pacifier
安放	to lay; to place; to put in a certain place
安新縣	Anxin, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
安於	to be content with; to be accustomed to
安於現狀	to take things as they are (idiom); to leave a situation as it is
安時	ampere-hour (Ah)
安曼	Amman, capital of Jordan
安替比林	antipyrine (loanword)
安東尼	Anthony (name)
安東尼與克莉奧佩特拉	Anthony and Cleopatra, 1606 tragedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚
安枕	to sleep soundly; (fig.) to rest easy; to be free of worries
安格斯	Angus, a traditional county of Scotland, now a "council area"
安格斯牛	Angus, Scottish breed of beef cattle
安格爾	Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres (1780-1867), French Neoclassical painter
安樂	peace and happiness
安樂區	Anle, a district of Keelung 基隆市[Ji1 long2 Shi4], Taiwan
安樂椅	comfortable armchair; easy chair; rocking chair
安樂死	euthanasia
安樂窩	comfortable niche
安檢	security check (abbr. for 安全檢查|安全检查[an1 quan2 jian3 cha2])
安次區	Anci, a district of Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
安歇	to go to bed; to retire for the night
安步當車	to go on foot (idiom); to do things at a leisurely pace
安民告示	a notice to reassure the public; advance notice (of an agenda)
安泰	at peace; healthy and secure
安源區	Anyuan, a district of Pingxiang City 萍鄉市|萍乡市[Ping2 xiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
安溪縣	Anxi, a county in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
安澤縣	Anze, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
安然	calmly; without qualms; free from worry
安然無恙	safe and sound (idiom)
安營	to pitch camp; to camp
安營紮寨	to set up camp; Taiwan pr. [an1 ying2 zha2 zhai4]
安特衛普	Antwerp (city in Belgium)
安理會	(United Nations) Security Council
安琪兒	angel (loanword)
安瓦爾	(name) Anwar
安瓶	ampoule (loanword)
安瓿	ampoule (loanword)
安瓿瓶	ampoule (loanword)
安生	peaceful; restful; quiet
安眠	to sleep peacefully
安眠藥	sleeping pill
安眠酮	methaqualone; hyminal
安睡	to sleep soundly
安睡褲	disposable period underwear (esp. for overnight use)
安石榴	pomegranate
安祖花	flamingo lily (Anthurium andraeanum)
安神	to calm (soothe) the nerves; to relieve uneasiness of body and mind
安祥	serene; composed; unruffled
安祿山	An Lushan (703-757), Tang general, leader of the An-Shi Rebellion 安史之亂|安史之乱[An1 Shi3 zhi1 Luan4]
安福縣	Anfu, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
安穩	steady; stable; sedate; calm; (of sleep) sound; (of a transition) smooth
安第斯山脈	the Andes Mountains (in South America)
安納托利亞	Anatolia; Asia Minor
安納波利斯	Annapolis (place name)
安置	to find a place for; to help settle down; to arrange for
安義縣	Anyi, a county in Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
安老院	(dialect) old people's home; nursing home
安聯	Allianz, German financial service company
安舒	at peace; relaxed; serene
安葬	to bury (the dead)
安藤	Andō (Japanese surname)
安裝	to install; to erect; to fix
安裝包	(computing) installation package
安親班	(Tw) after-school program
安設	to install; to set up
安詳	serene
安謐	tranquil; peaceful
安貞	Antei (Japanese reign name, 1227-1229)
安貧樂道	to be content with poverty and strive for virtue (idiom)
安賽蜜	acesulfame potassium
安身	to make one's home; to take shelter
安身立命	(idiom) to settle down and pursue one's path in life
安逸	easy and comfortable; easy
安道爾	Andorra
安道爾共和國	Republic of Andorra
安道爾城	Andorra la Vella, capital of Andorra
安達市	Anda, a county-level city in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
安達曼島	Andaman islands
安達曼海	Andaman Sea
安達曼群島	Andaman Islands
安遠縣	Anyuan, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
安適	quiet and comfortable
安邦	to bring peace and stability to a country, region etc
安邦定國	to bring peace and stability to the country
安鄉縣	Anxiang, a county in Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
安重根	An Jung-geun or Ahn Joong-keun (1879-1910), Korean independence activist, famous as assassin of Japanese prime minister ITŌ Hirobumi 伊藤博文[Yi1 teng2 Bo2 wen2] in 1909
安閑	at one's ease; carefree
安閑自在	leisurely and free (idiom); carefree and at ease
安閑自得	feeling comfortably at ease (idiom)
安閑隨意	leisurely and free (idiom); carefree and at ease
安閒	peaceful and carefree; leisurely
安閒舒適	leisurely and free (idiom); carefree and at ease
安陸市	Anlu, a county-level city in Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
安陽市	Anyang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
安陽縣	Anyang, a county in Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
安難	(classical) (of soldiers etc) resolute in the face of adversity
安靜	quiet; peaceful; calm
安非他命	amphetamine (medical) (loanword)
安非他明	amphetamine (loanword)
安順市	Anshun, prefecture-level city in Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
安頓	to find a place for; to help settle down; to arrange for
安養	to foster; to provide care (esp. for the elderly)
安養院	(Tw) nursing home; hospice
安魂彌撒	Requiem Mass (Catholic)
安龍縣	Anlong, a county in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
宋	surname Song; the Song dynasty (960–1279)
宋代	Song dynasty (960-1279)
宋任窮	Song Renqiong (1909-2005), general of the People's Liberation Army
宋史	History of the Song Dynasty, twentieth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], composed under Toktoghan 脫脫|脱脱[Tuo1 tuo1] in 1345 during the Yuan Dynasty 元[Yuan2], 496 scrolls
宋四大書	Four great compilations of Northern Song dynasty, namely: Extensive records of the Taiping era (978) 太平廣記|太平广记, Imperial readings of the Taiping era 太平御覽|太平御览, Prime tortoise of the record bureau 冊府元龜|册府元龟, Finest blossoms in the garden of literature 文苑英華|文苑英华
宋四家	four famous Song calligraphers, namely: Su Shi 蘇軾|苏轼[Su1 Shi4], Huang Tingjian 黃庭堅|黄庭坚[Huang2 Ting2 jian1], Mi Fu 米芾[Mi3 Fu2] and Cai Xiang 蔡襄[Cai4 Xiang1]
宋太祖	Emperor Taizu of Song, posthumous title of the founding Song emperor Zhao Kuangyin 趙匡胤|赵匡胤 (927-976), reigned from 960
宋干節	Songkran (Thai New Year festival)
宋徽宗	Emperor Huizong (Song Dynasty)
宋慈	Song Ci (1186–1249), author of "Collected Cases of Injustice Rectified" 洗冤集錄|洗冤集录[Xi3 yuan1 Ji2 lu4] (1247), said to be the world's first forensic science text
宋慶齡	Song Qingling (1893-1981), second wife of Sun Yat-sen 孫中山|孙中山[Sun1 Zhong1 shan1], influential political figure in China after Sun's death in 1925
宋教仁	Song Jiaoren (1882-1913), politician of the revolutionary party involved in the 1911 Xinhai revolution, murdered in Shanghai in 1913
宋書	History of Song of the Southern Dynasties 南朝宋[Nan2 chao2 Song4] or Liu Song 劉宋|刘宋[Liu2 Song4], sixth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled by Shen Yue 沈約|沈约[Shen3 Yue1] in 488 during Liang of the Southern Dynasties 南朝梁[Nan2 chao2 Liang2], 100 scrolls
宋朝	Song Dynasty (960-1279); also Song of Southern dynasties 南朝宋 (420-479)
宋楚瑜	James Soong (1942-), Taiwanese politician expelled from Guomindang in 2000 when he founded People First Party 親民黨|亲民党
宋武帝	Emperor Wu of Song (363-422), personal name Liu Yu 劉裕|刘裕[Liu2 Yu4], founder of Song of the Southern dynasties 劉宋|刘宋[Liu2 Song4], broke away from Eastern Jin in 420, reigned 420-422
宋江	Song Jiang, a principal hero of the novel Water Margin 水滸傳|水浒传
宋濂	Song Lian (1310-1381), Ming dynasty writer, historian and politician
宋白	Song Bai (936-1012), Northern Song literary man
宋祁	Song Qi (998-1061), Song dynasty poet and writer, coauthor of History of the Later Tang Dynasty 新唐書|新唐书
宋祖英	Song Zuying (1966-), Chinese folk music singer
宋美齡	Soong Mei-ling (1898-2003), Chiang Kai-shek's second wife
宋襄公	Duke Xiang of Song (reigned 650-637 BC), sometimes considered one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸
宋體	Mincho; Song font
完	to finish; to be over; whole
完了	to be finished; to be done for; ruined
完事	to be finished (with sth)
完事大吉	(idiom) (usu. after 就[jiu4]) (having done such-and-such) everything is now fine; that's the end of the matter; (one is) all set
完人	perfect person
完備	faultless; complete; perfect
完備性	completeness
完全	complete; whole; totally; entirely
完全歸納推理	inference by complete induction
完勝	to score a convincing win; to crush (one's opponent)
完善	(of systems, facilities etc) comprehensive; well-developed; excellent
完型填空	cloze (pedagogy)
完好	intact; in good condition
完好如初	intact; untouched; as good as before
完好無損	in good condition; undamaged; intact
完好無缺	in perfect condition; without any defect
完婚	(formal) to get married; to hold a wedding
完完全全	completely
完封	(baseball etc) shutout; to shut out (the opposing team)
完工	to finish work; to complete a project
完形	total form; coherent whole; Gestalt
完形填空	cloze (pedagogy)
完形心理學	Gestalt psychology (concerned with treating a subject as a coherent whole)
完形心理治療	Gestalt psychotherapy
完形測驗	Gestalt test
完成	to complete; to accomplish
完成時	perfect tense (grammar)
完敗	(sports) to be trounced (by an opponent); crushing defeat
完整	complete; intact
完整性	integrity; completeness
完滿	successful; satisfactory
完熟	fully ripe
完爆	(neologism c. 2010) (coll.) to kick (one's opponent's) ass
完犢子	(coll.) to be done for
完璧	flawless piece of jade; (fig.) perfect person or thing; virgin
完璧之身	undefiled (girl); virgin; (of computer system) clean
完璧歸趙	lit. to return the jade annulus to Zhao (idiom); fig. to return something intact to its rightful owner
完畢	to finish; to end; to complete
完稅	to pay tax; duty-paid
完結	to finish; to conclude; completed
完美	perfect
完美主義者	perfectionist
完美無瑕	flawless; immaculate; perfect
完美無缺	perfect and without blemish; flawless; to leave nothing to be desired
完虐	to trounce; to convincingly defeat; to significantly outperform
完蛋	(coll.) to be done for
完賽	to finish a competition; to complete a race (without withdrawing partway through)
完顏	two-character surname Wanyan
宏	great; magnificent; macro (computing)
宏偉	grand; imposing; magnificent
宏偉區	Hongwei, a district of Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
宏儒	learned scholar
宏圖	major undertaking; vast plan; grand prospect
宏大	great; grand
宏旨	gist; main idea
宏病毒	macro virus (computing)
宏碁	Acer, Taiwanese computer hardware company
宏碁集團	Acer, Taiwanese PC company
宏觀	macro-; macroscopic; holistic
宏觀世界	macrocosm; the world in the large
宏觀經濟	macroeconomic
宏觀經濟學	macroeconomics
宏觀調控	macro-control
宏都拉斯	Honduras (Tw)
宏願	great aspiration; great ambition
宓	still; silent
宕	used in 宕昌[Tan4 chang1] (the name of a place in Gansu)
宕昌縣	Tanchang, a county in Longnan City 隴南市|陇南市[Long3 nan2 Shi4], Gansu
宕機	(of a computer, server etc) to crash
宗	school; sect; purpose
宗主	head of a clan; natural leader
宗主國	suzerain state; mother country (of a colony)
宗主權	suzerainty
宗匠	person with remarkable academic or artistic attainments
宗喀巴	Tsongkhapa (1357-1419), Tibetan religious leader, founder of the Gelugpa school 格魯派|格鲁派[Ge2 lu3 pai4]
宗地	parcel of land
宗室	imperial clan; member of the imperial clan; clansman
宗師	great scholar respected for learning and integrity
宗廟	temple; ancestral shrine
宗教	religion
宗教儀式	religious ceremony
宗教團	religious order; religious grouping
宗教學	religious studies
宗教徒	adherent of religion; disciple
宗教改革	(Protestant) Reformation
宗教法庭	Inquisition (religion)
宗族	clan; clansman
宗旨	objective; aim; goal
宗正	minister in charge of the imperial clan
宗法	patriarchal clan system
宗派	sect
宗派主義	sectarianism
宗祠	ancestral temple; clan hall
宗筋	penis (Chinese medicine)
宗聖侯	hereditary title bestowed on Confucius' descendants
宗聖公	hereditary title bestowed on Confucius' descendants
官	government official; governmental; official
官二代	children of officials; word created by analogy with 富二代[fu4 er4 dai4]
官位	official post
官俸	salaries of government officials
官倒	speculation by officials; profiteering by government employees
官僚	bureaucrat; bureaucracy; bureaucratic
官僚主義	bureaucracy
官僚習氣	(derog.) bureaucracy; red tape
官價	official price
官兵	(military) officers and soldiers; officers and men
官制	the civil service system; the bureaucratic system
官印	official seal
官司	lawsuit
官名	name of job in Imperial bureaucracy; official position
官吏	bureaucrat; official
官員	official (in an organization or government); administrator
官報私仇	to take advantage of official post for personal revenge (idiom)
官場	officialdom; bureaucracy
官場現形記	Observations on the Current State of Officialdom, late Qing novel by Li Baojia 李寶嘉|李宝嘉[Li3 Bao3 jia4]
官威	the haughty demeanor of a government official; high-and-mighty attitude towards the public
官媒	official media; state media (abbr. for 官方媒體|官方媒体[guan1 fang1 mei2 ti3])
官子	endgame (in go)
官學	school or academic institution (old)
官官相護	officials shield one another (idiom); a cover-up
官客	male guest at party
官宣	official announcement (neologism c. 2018)
官宦	functionary; official
官宦人家	family of a functionary (i.e. educated middle class in Qing times)
官家	emperor; government; official
官差	official business; government workmen; odd-job men
官府	authorities; feudal official
官廳水庫	Guanting or Kuan-ting Reservoir in Hebei, one of the main water reservoirs serving Beijing
官復原職	restored to one's official post; to send sb back to his former post
官微	official (verified) account on Weibo 微博[Wei1 bo2] or WeChat 微信[Wei1 xin4]
官房長官	chief cabinet secretary (Japan)
官方	government; official (approved or issued by an authority)
官方語言	official language
官架子	putting on official airs
官桂	Chinese cinnamon (Cinnamomum cassia); also written 肉桂[rou4 gui4]
官樣	official manner
官樣文章	officialese; red tape
官渡之戰	Battle of Guandu of 199 that established Cao Cao's 曹操[Cao2 Cao1] domination over north China, at Guandu (near modern 許昌|许昌[Xu3 chang1] in north Henan)
官渡區	Guandu, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
官爵	official ranking; titles and honors
官私合營	public and private interests working together (idiom)
官稱	title; official appellation
官箴	rules of propriety for government officials
官網	official website (abbr. for 官方網站|官方网站[guan1 fang1 wang3 zhan4])
官署	official institution; state bureau
官翻	(of electronic goods) refurbished
官老爺	nickname for official
官職	an official position; a job in the bureaucracy
官能	organic function; physical faculty; sense (of sight, hearing, smell etc)
官能團	(chemistry) functional group
官能基	(Tw) (chemistry) functional group
官艙	(old) cabin class; second class (on a passenger ship)
官話	"officialese"; bureaucratic language; Mandarin
官費	government funded; paid by state stipend
官軍	(old) government troops
官辦	government-run; state-run
官逼民反	a government official drives the people to revolt (idiom); a minister provokes a rebellion by exploiting the people
官運亨通	(of a political career) everything is going smoothly (idiom)
官邸	official residence
官銜	title; official rank
官階	official rank
官非	lawsuit (from Cantonese)
官鹽	legally-traded salt (with salt tax paid)
宙	eternity; (geology) eon
宙斯	Zeus
宙斯盾戰鬥系統	Aegis Combat System (weapons system developed for the US Navy)
定	to fix; to set; to make definite
定下	to set (the tone, a target etc); to lay down (the beat)
定位	to orientate; to position; to categorize (as)
定位球	(football) set piece (a restart of play following a stoppage, including free kicks, corner kicks, penalty kicks, goal kicks and throw-ins)
定作	to have sth made to order
定例	usual practice; routine
定做	to have something made to order
定價	to set a price; to fix a price
定冠詞	definite article (grammar)
定出	to determine; to fix upon; to set (a target, a price etc)
定分	predestination; one's lot (of good and bad fortune)
定刑	to sentence (a criminal)
定力	ability to concentrate; willpower; resolve
定勢	attitude; mindset; prejudice
定南縣	Dingnan, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
定名	to name (sth)
定向	to orientate; directional; directed
定向培育	directed breeding
定向越野	cross-country orienteering
定命	predestined fate; destiny
定員	fixed complement (of crew, passengers etc)
定型	to finalize (a design etc); stereotype
定型水	hairspray
定場白	first soliloquy (introducing opera character)
定場詩	first soliloquy text (introducing opera character)
定奪	to make a decision; to determine
定子	(electricity) stator
定存	certificate of deposit; time deposit
定安	Ding'an county, Hainan
定安縣	Ding'an county, Hainan
定局	foregone conclusion; to be settled conclusively
定居	to settle (in some city, country etc); to take up residence
定居者	settler
定居點	settlement
定州市	Dingzhou, county-level city directly administered by Hebei Province
定常態	constant state; fixed state
定座率	occupancy (i.e. proportion of seats occupied)
定式	joseki (fixed opening pattern in go game)
定弦	tuning (stringed instrument); (fig.) to make up one's mind
定影	to fix a photographic image
定律	scientific law (e.g. law of conservation of energy)
定心丸	tranquilizer; sth that sets one's mind at ease
定性	to determine the nature (of sth)
定性分析	qualitative inorganic analysis
定性理論	qualitative theory
定情	to exchange love tokens or vows; to pledge one's love; to get engaged
定損	to assess damage or loss (for compensation, insurance etc)
定數	constant (math.); quota; fixed number (e.g. of places on a bus)
定於	set at; scheduled at
定於一尊	(idiom) to rely on a single authority to determine what is correct
定日縣	Tingri, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
定時	to fix a time; fixed time; timed (of explosive etc)
定時信管	timed detonator
定時器	timer
定時攝影	time-lapse photography
定時炸彈	time bomb
定時鐘	timer; timing clock; alarm clock
定期	at set dates; at regular intervals; periodic
定期儲蓄	fixed deposit (banking)
定期存款	fixed deposit; time deposit; certificate of deposit (banking)
定格	to fix; to confine to; freeze frame
定案	to reach a verdict; to conclude a judgment
定標	to calibrate (measure or apparatus); fixed coefficient
定標器	scaler
定檔	(of a film etc) to be set to be released on a specific date
定殖	(microbiology) to colonize; colonization
定洋	earnest money; deposit
定海	Dinghai district of Zhoushan city 舟山市[Zhou1 shan1 shi4], Zhejiang
定海區	Dinghai, a district of Zhoushan City 舟山市[Zhou1 shan1 Shi4], Zhejiang
定海神針	another name for 金箍棒[jin1 gu1 bang4], the Monkey King's golden cudgel
定焦鏡頭	prime lens
定然	certainly; of course
定理	theorem
定界	demarcation; boundary; delimited
定界符	delimiter (computing)
定當	settled; ready; finished
定盤星	the zero point indicator marked on a steelyard; fixed opinion
定睛	to stare at
定神	to compose oneself; to concentrate one's attention
定票	to reserve tickets
定禮	betrothal gift; bride-price
定稿	to finalize; to settle on the final version of (a text or creative work)
定約	to conclude a treaty; to make an agreement; contract (at bridge)
定級	to grade; to rank; to establish the level of sb or sth
定結縣	Dinggyê, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
定編	fixed allocation
定罪	to convict (sb of a crime)
定義	definition; to define
定義域	domain (math.)
定能	to be definitely able (to do sth)
定興縣	Dingxing, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
定艙	(of freight or cargo) to book
定製	custom-made; made-to-order; to have sth custom made
定襄縣	Dingxiang, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
定西市	Dingxi, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
定見	firm view; definite opinion
定規	to decide; to determine; established practice
定親	to settle a marriage; betrothal
定語	attributive (modifier)
定說	to assert categorically; generally accepted view
定調	to set the tone
定調子	to set the tone
定論	final conclusion; accepted argument
定讞	to judge a case; to render a verdict; verdict
定購	to order goods; to place an order
定速巡航	(automotive) cruise control
定遠縣	Dingyuan, a county in Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
定邊縣	Dingbian, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
定量	quantity; fixed amount; ration
定量分析	quantitative analysis
定金	down payment; advance payment
定銀	deposit; down payment
定錢	security deposit; earnest money (real estate); good-faith deposit
定陶區	Dingtao, a district of Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
定音	to call the tune; to make the final decision
定音鼓	timpani
定額	fixed amount; quota
定額組	quorum
定風針	wind vane; anemometer; weathercock
定食	set meal (esp. in a Japanese restaurant)
定點	to determine a location; designated; appointed
定點廠	factory designated by the state to make a particular product
定點茶	(Tw) (euphemism) prostitute service at a massage parlor or other place designated by the service provider
定鼎	lit. to set up the sacred tripods (following Yu the Great)
宛	winding; as if
宛城區	Wancheng, a district of Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
宛如	to be just like
宛然	as if; just like
宛若	to be just like
宛轉	sinuous; meandering; to take a circuitous route
宜	proper; should; suitable
宜人	nice; pleasant; charming; hospitable to people
宜君縣	Yijun, a county in Tongchuan City 銅川市|铜川市[Tong2 chuan1 Shi4], Shaanxi
宜城市	Yicheng, a county-level city in Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
宜家	IKEA, Swedish furniture retailer
宜居	livable
宜川縣	Yichuan, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
宜州區	Yizhou, a district of Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
宜於	to be suitable for
宜昌市	Yichang, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
宜春市	Yichun, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
宜秀區	Yixiu, a district of Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
宜章縣	Yizhang, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
宜興市	Yixing, a county-level city in Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
宜良縣	Yiliang, a county in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
宜蘭	Yilan city and county 宜蘭縣|宜兰县[Yi2 lan2 Xian4], northeast Taiwan
宜蘭市	Yilan City in Yilan County 宜蘭縣|宜兰县[Yi2 lan2 Xian4], northeast Taiwan
宜蘭縣	Yilan County in northeast Taiwan
宜豐縣	Yifeng, a county in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
宜賓市	Yibin, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
宜都市	Yidu, a county-level city in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
宜陽縣	Yiyang, a county in Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
宜黃縣	Yihuang, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
客	customer; visitor; guest
客串	to appear on stage in an amateur capacity
客人	visitor; guest; customer
客似雲來	to be bustling with customers
客商	nonlocal merchant; trader from another area
客單價	average transaction value per customer (i.e. the average amount a customer spends per visit or transaction)
客堂	(old) reception room; living room
客場	away-game arena; away-game venue
客套	polite greeting; civilities; to exchange pleasantries
客套話	conventional greeting; polite formula
客官	(old) polite form of address for a customer or guest
客室	guest room
客家	Hakka ethnic group, a subgroup of the Han that in the 13th century migrated from northern China to the south
客家人	Hakka people
客家話	Hakka dialect
客家語	Hakka (a Chinese dialect)
客居	to live in a foreign place; to live somewhere as a guest
客店	small hotel; inn
客座教授	visiting professor; guest professor
客廳	living room; sitting room
客戶	client; customer
客戶應用	client application
客戶服務	customer service; client service
客戶服務部	customer service division
客戶機	client (computer)
客戶機軟件	client software
客戶端	client (computing)
客房	guest room; room (in a hotel)
客房服務	room service
客服	customer service
客梯	passenger elevator; passenger lift
客棧	tavern; guest house; inn
客機	passenger plane
客死	to die in a foreign land; to die abroad
客死異鄉	to die in a foreign land (idiom)
客氣	polite; courteous; formal
客氣話	words of politeness; politesse; decorous talking
客流	passenger flow; customer flow
客源	source of customers
客滿	to have a full house; to be sold out; no vacancy
客群	market segment
客船	passenger ship
客艙	passenger cabin
客蚤	flea (Xenopsylla spp.)
客蚤屬	Xenopsylla (the flea genus)
客製化	customization (Tw)
客西馬尼園	Garden of Gethsemane
客觀	objective; impartial
客觀世界	the objective world (as opposed to empirical observation)
客觀主義	objectivist philosophy
客觀唯心主義	objective idealism (in Hegel's philosophy)
客觀性	objectivity
客訴	customer complaint; to complain about a company's product or service
客語	Hakka dialect
客車	coach; bus; passenger train
客輪	passenger ship
客運	passenger transportation; (Tw) intercity bus
客運量	amount of passenger traffic
客隊	visiting team (sports)
客飯	cafeteria meal specially prepared for a group of visitors; set meal
客體	object (philosophy)
宣	to declare (publicly); to announce
宣介	to promote; to publicize
宣傳	to disseminate; to give publicity to; propaganda
宣傳冊	commercial brochure; advertising pamphlet; flyer
宣傳攻勢	marketing campaign
宣傳畫	propaganda poster; advertising hoarding
宣傳部	Propaganda Department
宣判	to deliver one's judgement; to give one's verdict
宣化區	Xuanhua, a district of Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
宣告	to declare; to proclaim
宣城市	Xuancheng, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
宣威市	Xuanwei, a county-level city in Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
宣導	(Tw) to educate the public; to raise awareness
宣州區	Xuanzhou, a district of Xuancheng City 宣城市[Xuan1 cheng2 Shi4], Anhui
宣布	to declare; to announce; to proclaim
宣布破產	to declare bankruptcy
宣德	Xuande Emperor, reign name of fifth Ming emperor Zhu Zhanji 朱瞻基[Zhu1 Zhan1 ji1] (1398-1435), reigned 1426-1436, temple name 明宣宗[Ming2 Xuan1 zong1]
宣恩縣	Xuan'en, a county in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
宣戰	to declare war
宣揚	to publicize; to advertise; to spread far and wide
宣教	to preach a religion
宣明	to declare
宣武門	Xuanwumen, Beijing
宣洩	to drain (by leading off water); to unburden oneself; to divulge
宣漢縣	Xuanhan, a county in Dazhou City 達州市|达州市[Da2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
宣發	to promote; to publicize; to market
宣示	to vow; to pledge
宣禮塔	minaret
宣稱	to assert; to claim
宣紙	fine writing paper, originally from Jing county 涇縣|泾县, Xuancheng 宣城, Anhui
宣統	reign name (1909-1911) of the last Qing emperor Pu Yi 溥儀|溥仪
宣言	declaration; manifesto
宣認	public declaration
宣誓	to swear an oath (of office); to make a vow
宣誓供詞證明	(law) affidavit; deposition
宣誓就職	to swear the oath of office
宣誓書	affidavit
宣誓證言	sworn testimony
宣講	to preach; to explain publicly
宣讀	to read out loud to an audience
宣道	to preach (the gospel); to evangelize
室	room; work unit; grave
室內	indoor
室內樂	chamber music
室內裝潢	interior decorating
室內設計	interior design
室友	roommate
室外	outdoor
室女	unmarried lady; virgin; Virgo (star sign)
室女座	Virgo (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
室溫	room temperature
室町	Muromachi bakufu, the feudal government of Japan (1338-1573) under the Ashikaga shoguns
室町幕府	Muromachi bakufu, the feudal government of Japan (1338-1573) under the Ashikaga shoguns
室邇人遐	to long for sb far away; to grieve over the dead
室韋	the Shiwei tribes who inhabited an area to the northeast of Tang-dynasty China
室顫	ventricular fibrillation (V-fib), abbr. for 心室顫動|心室颤动[xin1 shi4 chan4 dong4]
宥	to forgive; to help; profound
宦	imperial official; court eunuch
宦官	court eunuch
宦海	officialdom; bureaucracy
宦海風波	lit. raging sea of bureaucracy; officials causing a big fuss
宦門	family of officials
宦騎	horse guard; imperial cavalry guard (of officials or eunuchs)
宧	northeastern corner of a room
宬	(literary) archive room; library (esp. in the imperial palace in the Ming and Qing dynasties)
宮	palace; temple; castration (as corporal punishment)
宮主	imperial empress; milady
宮人	imperial concubine or palace maid; imperial secretary (old)
宮位	house (astrology)
宮保雞丁	Kung Pao Chicken; spicy diced chicken
宮內節育器	intrauterine device (IUD)
宮刑	castration (archaic punishment)
宮商角徵羽	pre-Tang names of the five notes of the pentatonic scale, corresponding roughly to do, re, mi, sol, la
宮城	Miyagi (prefecture in Japan)
宮外孕	ectopic pregnancy
宮女	palace maid
宮崎	(Japanese surname) Miyazaki; Miyazaki (prefecture and city in Japan)
宮崎吾朗	Miyazaki Gorō (1967-), Japanese film director
宮崎駿	Miyazaki Hayao (1941-), Japanese director
宮廷	court (of king or emperor)
宮掖	palace apartments
宮本	Miyamoto (Japanese surname)
宮殿	palace
宮澤喜一	Kiichi Miyazawa (1919-2007), former Japanese prime minister
宮爆肉丁	stir-fried diced pork
宮爆雞丁	gong bao chicken; spicy diced chicken
宮縮	contraction of the uterus (during childbirth)
宮觀	Taoist temple
宮調	modes of ancient Chinese music
宮闕	palace
宮頸	cervix; the neck of the uterus
宮頸管	(anatomy) cervical canal
宰	to slaughter; to butcher; to kill (animals etc)
宰了	(coll.) (typically used hyperbolically) to kill (sb)
宰予	Zai Yu (522-458 BC), disciple of Confucius
宰人	to overcharge; to rip sb off
宰制	to rule; to dominate
宰割	to slaughter; (fig.) to ride roughshod over
宰客	to cheat customers; to overcharge
宰殺	to slaughter (an animal for meat); to butcher
宰相	prime minister (in feudal China)
害	to do harm to; to cause trouble to; harm
害人	to harm sb; to inflict suffering; to victimize
害人不淺	(idiom) (usu. of behaviors, systems or trends etc) to cause people tremendous harm
害人之心不可有，防人之心不可無	refrain from hurting others, yet guard against those trying to hurt you (proverb)
害人精	goblin that kills or harms people; fig. wicked scoundrel
害人蟲	pest; evildoer
害命	to kill sb; to murder
害喜	to react to pregnancy by experiencing morning sickness or a strong appetite for certain foods
害得	to cause or lead to sth bad
害怕	to be afraid; to be scared
害月子	morning sickness (in pregnancy)
害死	to kill; to cause death; to do sb to death
害獸	vermin; harmful animal
害病	to fall sick; to contract an illness
害相思病	sick with love
害眼	to have eye trouble
害羞	shy; embarrassed; bashful
害群之馬	lit. a horse that brings trouble to its herd (idiom)
害肚子	upset stomach; stomachache
害臊	to be bashful; to feel ashamed
害處	damage; harm
害蟲	injurious insect; pest
害鳥	pest bird (esp. one that feeds on farm crops or newly hatched fish)
宴	(bound form) to entertain at a banquet; (bound form) banquet; feast
宴客	to host a banquet; guest at a banquet
宴席	banquet; feast
宴會	banquet; feast; dinner party
宴會廳	ballroom; banqueting hall
宴樂	peace and happiness; feasting; making merry
宴請	to entertain (for dinner); to invite to dinner
宴飲	to wine and dine; to feast; banquet
宴饗	to host a banquet; feast; banquet
宵	night
宵夜	midnight snack; late-night snack
宵小	thief; bandit; scoundrel
宵征	night journey; punitive expedition by night
宵禁	night curfew
宵衣旰食	to dress before light and not eat before dark (idiom)
家	home; family; (polite) my (sister, uncle etc)
家丁	(old) servant hired to keep guard, run errands etc
家世	family background
家主	head of a household
家事	family matters; domestic affairs; housework
家人	family member; (old) servant
家什	utensils; furniture
家伙	household dish, implement or furniture; domestic animal; (coll.) guy
家信	letter to or from home or family
家傭	domestic helper
家傳	handed down in a family; family traditions
家僮	servant
家兄	(polite) my elder brother
家兒	(old) child, particularly referring to the son who resembles his father
家八哥	(bird species of China) common myna (Acridotheres tristis)
家公	head of a family; (polite) my father; (polite) my grandfather
家具	furniture
家務	household duties; housework
家務活	household chore
家去	(dialect) to go home; to return home
家叔	(polite) my uncle (father's younger brother)
家和萬事興	if the family lives in harmony all affairs will prosper (idiom)
家喻戶曉	understood by everyone (idiom); well known; a household name
家嚴	(polite) my father
家園	home; homeland
家境	family financial situation; family circumstances
家大業大	(idiom) to have a sprawling business
家奴	domestic slave; slave servant
家姊	my sister
家姐	(polite) my older sister
家姑	(polite) father's sisters
家姬	(old) female servants or concubines in homes of the rich
家娘	(dialect) husband's mother
家婆	(dialect) mother-in-law; (house)wife
家婦	wife (old)
家嫂	(polite) my sister-in-law
家子	household; family
家宅	home; residence; house
家室	wife; family; (literary) residence
家宴	dinner party held in one's home; family reunion dinner
家家戶戶	each and every family (idiom); every household
家家有本難念的經	every family has its problems (idiom)
家家酒	(Tw) house (children's game); playing house
家小	wife and children; wife
家居	home; residence; to stay at home (unemployed)
家居賣場	furniture store; furniture mall
家屬	family member; (family) dependent
家常	the daily life of a family
家常便飯	simple home-style meal; common occurrence; nothing out of the ordinary
家常菜	home cooking
家常豆腐	home-style tofu
家底	family property; patrimony
家庭	family; household
家庭主夫	househusband
家庭主婦	housewife; stay-at-home wife
家庭作業	homework
家庭地址	home address
家庭影院	home cinema; home theater
家庭成員	family member
家庭教師	tutor
家庭暴力	domestic violence
家庭煮夫	househusband
家弟	(polite) my younger brother
家徒四壁	lit. with only four bare walls for a home (idiom); fig. very poor
家慈	(polite) my mother
家政	housekeeping
家政員	housekeeping staff
家政學	family and consumer science
家教	family education; upbringing; to bring sb up
家數	the distinctive style and techniques handed down from master to apprentice within a particular school
家族	family; clan
家族樹	a family tree
家景	the family's financial circumstances
家暴	domestic violence (abbr. for 家庭暴力[jia1 ting2 bao4 li4])
家業	family property
家樂氏	Kellogg's (US food manufacturing company)
家樂福	Carrefour, French supermarket chain
家母	(polite) my mother
家法	the rules and discipline that apply within a family
家灶	hearth
家燕	(bird species of China) barn swallow (Hirundo rustica)
家父	(polite) my father
家爺	(old) a term servants used to refer to their master
家產	family property
家用	home-use; domestic; family expenses
家用電器	domestic electric appliance
家用電腦	home computer
家畜	domestic animal; livestock; cattle
家當	familial property; belongings
家的	(old) wife
家眷	one's wife and children
家破人亡	family bankrupt and the people dead (idiom); ruined and orphaned
家祖	(polite) my paternal grandfather
家禽	poultry; domestic fowl
家私	family property; family wealth
家童	servant
家紡	home textiles (bedding, towels, curtains, table linen etc)
家累千金，坐不垂堂	lit. a wealthy person does not sit under the eaves (idiom); fig. a rich man does not expose himself to danger
家給人足	lit. each household provided for, enough for the individual (idiom); comfortably off
家老	(old) a senior in one's household
家臣	counselor of king or feudal warlord; henchman
家舅	(polite) my maternal uncle
家花沒有野花香	lit. the flowers in one's garden cannot match the fragrance of wild flowers (idiom)
家蠅	house fly
家蠶	the common silkworm (Bombyx mori)
家裡	home
家裡蹲	recluse; hikikomori person
家規	family rules; family code of conduct
家親	older generation in one's household (often referring to one's parents)
家計	family livelihood; a household's economic situation; family property
家訓	instructions to one's children; family precepts
家訪	to pay a home visit, esp. (of a teacher) to visit a student's home
家語	The School Sayings of Confucius (abbr. for 孔子家語|孔子家语[Kong3 zi3 Jia1 yu3])
家譜	genealogy; family tree
家貓	domestic cat; house cat
家貧如洗	extreme poverty (idiom); destitute; penniless; poor as church mice
家貲萬貫	immensely rich
家轎	privately-owned car
家道	family financial circumstances
家道中落	to come down in the world (idiom); to suffer a reversal of fortune
家鄉	hometown; native place
家鄉菜	regional dish; local cuisine
家鄉話	native language; native dialect
家醜	family scandal; skeleton in the closet
家醜不可外傳	lit. family shames must not be spread abroad (idiom); fig. don't wash your dirty linen in public
家醜不可外揚	lit. family shames must not be spread abroad (idiom)
家長	head of a household; family head; patriarch
家長制	patriarchal system
家長家短	family goings-on
家長會	parent-teacher conference; parents' association
家門	house door; family clan
家雀兒	(coll.) sparrow
家電	household electric appliance; abbr. for 家用電器|家用电器
家養	domestic (animals); home reared
家馬	domestic horse
家鴉	(bird species of China) house crow (Corvus splendens)
家鴨	domestic duck
家鴨綠頭鴨	mallard; duck (Anas platyrhyncha)
家麻雀	(bird species of China) house sparrow (Passer domesticus)
宸	imperial apartments
容	to hold; to contain; to allow
容下	to hold; to admit; to accommodate
容不得	unable to tolerate; intolerant; unable to bear sth
容光煥發	face glowing (idiom); looking radiant; all smiles
容克	Junker (German aristocracy)
容受	to tolerate; to accept (criticism, resignation etc)
容器	receptacle; vessel; (computing) container
容城縣	Rongcheng, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
容忍	to put up with; to tolerate
容恕	to forgive; to pardon
容或	perhaps; maybe; probably
容易	easy; straightforward; likely; liable to; apt to
容止	looks and demeanor
容祖兒	Joey Yung (1980-), Hong Kong pop singer and actress
容積	volume; capacity
容積效率	volumetric efficiency (engine technology)
容納	to hold; to contain; to accommodate
容縣	Rong County or Rongxian, a county in Yulin City 玉林市[Yu4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
容華絕代	to be blessed with rare and radiant beauty (idiom)
容許	to permit; to allow
容讓	to make a concession; to be accommodating
容貌	one's appearance; one's aspect; looks
容身	to find a place where one can fit in; to make one's home
容量	capacity; volume; quantitative (science)
容量分析	quantitative analysis; volumetric analysis
容錯	(of a system) fault-tolerant
容顏	mien; complexion
容顏失色	(of complexion) to lose one's color; to blanch; to look wan
宿	lodge for the night; old; former
宿世	previous life
宿主	(biology) host
宿仇	feud; vendetta; old foe
宿便	(medicine) impacted stool
宿債	long-standing debt
宿儒	experienced scholar; old expert in the field
宿分	predestined relationship
宿務	Cebu (province in the Philippines)
宿務語	Cebuano (aka Bisaya), language spoken in parts of the Philippines
宿命	predestination; karma
宿命論	fatalism; fatalistic
宿命通	(Buddhism) recollection of past lives
宿城區	Sucheng, a district of Suqian City 宿遷市|宿迁市[Su4 qian1 Shi4], Jiangsu
宿夜	to stay overnight
宿娼	to visit a prostitute
宿將	veteran general
宿州市	Suzhou, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
宿弊	long-standing abuse; continuing fraud
宿怨	an old grudge; old scores to settle
宿恨	old hatred
宿敵	old enemy
宿昔	formerly; in the past
宿松縣	Susong, a county in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
宿根	perennial root (botany)
宿營	to camp; to bivouac; to lodge
宿營地	camp; campsite
宿疾	chronic ailment
宿管	dormitory management (abbr. for 宿舍管理[su4 she4 guan3 li3])
宿緣	(Buddhism) predestined relationship
宿舍	dormitory; dorm room; living quarters
宿舍樓	dormitory building
宿草	grass that has grown on a grave since last year; (fig.) grave
宿處	lodging house
宿見	long-held opinion; long-cherished view
宿諾	old promises; unfulfilled promises
宿豫區	Suyu, a district of Suqian City 宿遷市|宿迁市[Su4 qian1 Shi4], Jiangsu
宿遷市	Suqian, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
宿酒	hangover
宿醉	hangover
宿霧	Cebu, a province (and a city) in the Philippines (Tw)
宿霧語	Cebuano (aka Bisaya), language spoken in parts of the Philippines (Tw)
宿願	long-cherished wish
寀	feudal estate
寁	swift
寂	silent; solitary; Taiwan pr. [ji2]
寂寂	quiet
寂寂無名	unknown; unrenowned
寂寞	lonely; lonesome; (of a place) quiet
寂寥	(literary) quiet and desolate; lonely; vast and empty
寂滅	to die out; to fade away; nirvana (Buddhism)
寂然	silent; quiet
寂靜	quiet
寄	to entrust; to place in sb's care
寄主	host (of a parasite)
寄予	to place (hope, importance etc) on; to express; to show; to give
寄予厚望	to place high hopes
寄人籬下	to lodge under another person's roof (idiom); to live relying on sb else's charity
寄件人	sender
寄出	to mail; to send by post
寄名	adopted name; to take a name (of one's adoptive family)
寄售	sale on consignment
寄女	foster daughter
寄子	foster son
寄存	to deposit; to store; to leave sth with sb
寄存器	processor register (computing)
寄存處	warehouse; temporary store; left-luggage office
寄宿	to stay; to lodge; to board
寄宿學校	boarding school
寄宿生	boarder
寄居	to live away from home
寄居蟹	hermit crab
寄懷	emotions expressed in writing
寄放	to leave sth with sb
寄望	to place hopes on
寄母	foster mother
寄父	foster father
寄物	to check in items (at a cloakroom, locker etc)
寄物櫃	baggage locker; coin locker
寄物處	coat check; cloakroom; checkroom
寄生	to live in or on another organism as a parasite
寄生物	parasite
寄生生活	parasitic life (of an organism); (fig.) parasitic lifestyle (of a person)
寄生者	parasite (human)
寄生蟲	parasite (biology); (fig.) freeloader
寄發	to dispatch; to send out (mail)
寄籍	to register as domiciled in another land; naturalization
寄託	to entrust (to sb); to place (one's hope, energy etc) in
寄語	to give an earnest message of good wishes, encouragement, or advice etc; a message of this sort
寄賣	to consign for sale
寄跡	to live away from home temporarily
寄送	to send; to transmit
寄達	to send sth by mail
寄遞	delivery (of mail)
寄銷	to dispatch; consigned (goods)
寄頓	to place in safe keeping; to leave sth with sb
寄養	to place in the care of sb (a child, pet etc); to foster; to board out
寅	3rd earthly branch: 3-5 a.m., 1st solar month (4th February-5th March), year of the Tiger
寅吃卯糧	lit. eating away next year's food in advance
寅時	3-5 am (in the system of two-hour subdivisions used in former times)
寅虎	Year 3, year of the Tiger (e.g. 2010)
密	surname Mi; name of an ancient state
密不可分	inextricably linked (idiom); inseparable
密不透風	sealed off; impenetrable
密令	secret instruction; secret order
密件	secret documents; abbr. for 機密文件|机密文件
密使	secret envoy
密克羅尼西亞	Micronesia
密函	secret letter
密切	close; intimate; to strengthen (ties, cooperation etc)
密切接觸者	(epidemiology) close contact
密友	close friend
密合	close-fitting; tightly sealed
密告	to report secretly; to tip off
密商	to negotiate in secret; confidential discussions
密報	secret report
密宗	Vajrayana; Tantric Buddhism
密室	a room for keeping sth hidden; secret room; hidden chamber
密室逃脫	escape room
密密	thick; dense; close
密密匝匝	thick; concentrated; dense
密密實實	thick; concentrated
密密層層	tightly packed; closely layered
密密扎扎	thick; dense
密密麻麻	numerous and close together; densely packed; thickly dotted
密實	close (texture); dense; densely woven
密封	to seal up
密封膠	sealant; sealing glue
密封艙	sealed compartment
密山市	Mishan, a county-level city in Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
密布	to cover densely
密帳	secret account (e.g. bank account)
密度	density; concentration
密度波	density wave
密度計	density gauge
密恐	trypophobia (abbr. for 密集恐懼症|密集恐惧症[mi4 ji2 kong3 ju4 zheng4])
密排	to arrange closely; to lay densely
密探	secret agent; detective; covert investigator
密接	adjacent; in close proximity
密教	esoteric Buddhism
密文	ciphertext
密斯	Miss (loanword)
密斯脫	mister (loanword)
密會	secret meeting; to meet secretly
密林	jungle
密植	close planting
密歇根	Michigan, US state
密歇根大學	University of Michigan
密歇根湖	Lake Michigan, one of the Great Lakes 五大湖[Wu3 da4 hu2]
密爾沃基	Milwaukee (city)
密特朗	Mitterrand
密碼	cipher; secret code; password; PIN
密碼保護	password protection
密碼子	(biochemistry) codon
密碼學	cryptography
密碼鎖	combination lock
密碼電報	coded telegram; ciphered cable
密簷塔	multi-eaved pagoda
密約	secret appointment
密緻	compact; dense; close-spaced
密縣	Mi county in Henan
密織	closely woven
密蘇里	Missouri
密蘇里州	Missouri
密西根	Michigan, US state (Tw)
密西西比	Mississippi
密西西比河	Mississippi River
密訪	to pay a secret visit; to pay an undercover visit
密詔	secret imperial edict
密語	code word; coded language; to communicate in private
密談	commune; private discussion
密謀	conspiracy; secret plan; to conspire
密送	Bcc (for email); Blind carbon copy (for email)
密道	secret passage; hidden tunnel
密鑰	(cryptography) key
密閉	sealed; airtight
密閉艙	sealed cabin
密閉貨艙	sealed cabin
密閉門	airtight door
密集	concentrated; crowded together; intensive
密集恐懼症	trypophobia
密雲區	Miyun, a district of Beijing
密電	coded telegram; secret telegram
寇	to invade; to plunder; bandit
寇攘	to rob and steal
寇準	Kou Zhun (961-1023), Northern Song politician and poet
富	rich; abundant; wealthy
富不過三代	wealth never survives three generations (idiom)
富二代	children of entrepreneurs who became wealthy under Deng Xiaoping's economic reforms in the 1980s
富人	rich person; the rich
富可敵國	having wealth equivalent to that of an entire nation (idiom)
富含	to contain in great quantities; rich in
富哥	rich guy
富商	rich merchant
富商大賈	(idiom) tycoon; magnate
富商巨賈	(idiom) tycoon; magnate
富國	rich country; make the country wealthy (political slogan)
富國安民	to make the country rich and the people at peace
富國強兵	lit. rich country, strong army (idiom); slogan of legalist philosophers in pre-Han times
富士	Fuji (Japanese company)
富士山	Mt. Fuji, Japan
富士康	Foxconn Technology Group
富士康科技集團	Foxconn Technology Group
富士通	Fujitsu
富婆	wealthy woman
富孀	rich widow
富家翁	man of wealth; rich man
富富有餘	richly provided for; having enough and to spare
富寧縣	Funing, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
富川瑤族自治縣	Fuchuan Yao Autonomous County, in Hezhou City 賀州市|贺州市[He4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
富布賴特	Fulbright (scholarship)
富平縣	Fuping, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
富庶	populous and affluent
富強	rich and powerful
富得流油	affluent; very rich
富態	(euphemism) stout; portly
富戶	rich family; large landlord
富拉爾基區	Fularji, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
富文本	(computing) rich text
富於	to be full of; to be rich in
富春江	Fuchun River in Zhejiang
富時	FTSE (British provider of stock exchange indices such as FTSE 100)
富有	rich; wealthy; affluent; to be rich in; to be replete with
富民	to enrich the people
富民縣	Fumin, a county in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
富源縣	Fuyuan, a county in Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
富甲一方	(idiom) to be the richest person (or family) in a region; to possess great wealth in one's locality
富礦	high-grade ore
富納富提	Funafuti, capital of Tuvalu
富縣	Fu County or Fuxian, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
富翁	rich person; millionaire; billionaire
富良野	Furano, Hokkaidō, Japan
富色彩	colorful
富蘊縣	Fuyun, a county in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
富蘭克林	(name) Franklin
富裕	prosperous; well-to-do; well-off
富裕縣	Fuyu, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
富豪	rich and powerful person
富貴	riches and honor
富貴不能淫	not corrupted by wealth and honors
富貴包	dowager's hump
富貴壽考	rank, wealth, and long life
富貴病	rich person's ailment (needing expensive treatment and long recuperation)
富貴竹	lucky bamboo (Dracaena sanderiana)
富貴角	Cape Fukuei, the northernmost point of Taiwan Island
富足	rich; plentiful
富農	rich peasant
富錦市	Fujin, a county-level city in Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
富鐵土	ferrosol (soil taxonomy)
富陽區	Fuyang, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
富順縣	Fushun, a county in Zigong City 自貢市|自贡市[Zi4 gong4 Shi4], Sichuan
富養	to raise (a child) indulgently
富餘	in surplus
富饒	fertile; richly provided
富麗堂皇	(idiom) (of houses etc) sumptuous
寎	nightmare; start in sleep
寐	to sleep soundly
寐龍	Mei, dinosaur genus; Mei long, dinosaur species
寒	cold; poor; to tremble
寒亭區	Hanting, a district of Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
寒假	winter vacation
寒光閃閃	(of a bladed weapon etc) to gleam coldly
寒冬	cold winter
寒冷	cold (climate); frigid; very cold
寒噤	a shiver
寒士	(old) impoverished scholar
寒天	chilly weather; (loanword from Japanese) agar-agar
寒帶	polar climate
寒微	of humble origin
寒心	disillusioned; bitterly disappointed; terrified
寒意	a nip in the air; chilliness
寒戰	shiver
寒暄	to exchange conventional greetings; to exchange pleasantries
寒武爆發	the Cambrian explosion
寒武紀	Cambrian geological period (541-485.4 million years ago)
寒武紀大爆發	the Cambrian explosion
寒武紀生命大爆發	the Cambrian explosion
寒毛	fine hair on the human body
寒氣	cold air; a chill one feels in the body (when exposed to cold air)
寒流	cold air current; cold ocean current; cold stream
寒潮	cold wave
寒磣	ugly; shameful; to ridicule
寒窗	a life of strenuous studies (idiom)
寒腿	(coll.) arthritic condition affecting the legs, esp. one aggravated by cold or damp weather
寒舍	my humble home
寒荊	(polite) my wife (old)
寒蟬	a cicada in cold weather (used as a metaphor for sb who keeps their thoughts to themself)
寒蟬效應	the chilling effect of a climate of fear in which people are afraid to speak their mind
寒衣	winter clothing
寒酸	wretched; poverty-stricken; unpresentable (for clothing, gifts etc)
寒門	poor and humble family; my family (humble)
寒露	Hanlu or Cold Dew, 17th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 8th-22nd October
寒風	cold wind
寒風刺骨	bone chilling wind (idiom)
寒食	cold food (i.e. to abstain from cooked food for 3 days around the Qingming festival 清明節|清明节)
寒鴉	(bird species of China) western jackdaw; Eurasian jackdaw (Coloeus monedula)
寓	(bound form) to reside; to inhabit; (bound form) residence; dwelling
寓居	to make one's home in; to reside in; to inhabit
寓意	moral (of a story); lesson to be learned; implication
寓意深遠	the implied message is deep (idiom); having deep implications
寓意深長	to have profound import (idiom); to be deeply significant
寓所	dwelling
寓教於樂	to make learning fun; to combine education and entertainment
寓目	(literary) to look over; to view
寓管理於服務之中	to make administration service-oriented
寓言	fable; allegory; parable
寔	really; solid
寘	to put aside; to put down; to discard
寙	bad; useless; weak
寞	lonesome
察	short name for Chahar Province 察哈爾|察哈尔[Cha2 ha1 er3]
察合臺	Chagatai (died 1241), a son of Genghis Khan
察哈爾	Chahar Province (former province in North China existing from 1912-1936)
察哈爾右翼中旗	Chahar Right Center banner or Caxar Baruun Garyn Dund khoshuu in Ulaanchab 烏蘭察布|乌兰察布[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4], Inner Mongolia
察哈爾右翼前旗	Chahar Right Front banner or Caxar Baruun Garyn Ömnöd khoshuu in Ulaanchab 烏蘭察布|乌兰察布[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4], Inner Mongolia
察哈爾右翼後旗	Chahar Right Rear banner or Caxar Baruun Garyn Xoit khoshuu in Ulaanchab 烏蘭察布|乌兰察布[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4], Inner Mongolia
察察	clean; spotless
察察為明	keenly observant of trivial details
察布查爾錫伯自治縣	Qapqal Xibe Autonomous County, in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
察爾汗鹽湖	Qarhan Salt Lake in west Qinghai
察看	to watch; to look carefully at
察納	to investigate and accept
察覺	to sense; to perceive; to become aware of
察言觀色	to weigh up sb's words and observe their facial expression (idiom)
察訪	to make an investigative visit; to go and find out from the source
察隅縣	Zayu, a county in Nyingchi City 林芝市[Lin2 zhi1 Shi4], Tibet
察雅縣	Zhag'yab, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
察驗	to examine
寠	poor; rustic
寡	few; scant; widowed
寡不敵眾	the few are no match for the many; heavily outnumbered
寡二少雙	peerless; second to none (idiom)
寡人	I (first person pronoun used by royalty or nobility)
寡助	(esp. of an unjust cause) to receive little support
寡婦	widow
寡居	to live as a widow
寡情	heartless; unfeeling
寡淡	insipid; bland; indifferent
寡糖	oligosaccharide
寡言	taciturn; reticent
寡陋	having little knowledge; not well-read
寡頭	oligarch
寡頭壟斷	oligopoly
寡頭政治	oligarchy
寢	(bound form) to lie down to sleep or rest; (bound form) bedroom
寢具	bedding
寢室	bedroom; dormitory
寢苫枕塊	bed of straw and pillow of clay (idiom)
寢食難安	(lit.) unable to sleep or eat in peace (idiom)
寤	to awake from sleep
寤寐	(literary) awake or asleep; (fig.) all the time; constantly
寤寐求之	(idiom) to long for sb or sth day and night; to seek it unceasingly
寥	empty; lonesome; very few
寥寥	very few
寥寥可數	(idiom) very few
寥寥無幾	(idiom) very few
寥廓	(literary) vast; boundless
寥若晨星	rare as morning stars (idiom); few and far between; sparse
寥落	sparse; few and far between
實	real; true; honest
實不相瞞	truth to tell; to be quite honest...
實事	fact; actual thing; practical matter
實事求是	lit. to seek truth from facts (idiom)
實付	actually paid; net (payment)
實例	actual example; living example; illustration
實值	real-valued (math.); taking real numbers as values (of a function)
實分析	real analysis; calculus of real variables
實利	advantage; gain; net profit
實利主義	utilitarianism
實則	actually; in fact
實力	strength
實力主義	meritocracy
實務	practice (customary action, as opposed to theory); practical
實參	(computing) actual parameter; argument (abbr. for 實際參數|实际参数[shi2 ji4 can1 shu4])
實受資本	paid-up capital
實名	real-name (registration etc); non-anonymous
實名制	system for identifying users (on a rail network, the Internet etc)
實在	really; actually; indeed
實地	on-site
實地訪視	onsite visit
實報實銷	to be reimbursed for actual expenses
實女	female suffering absence or atresia of vagina (as birth defect)
實屬	(to) really (be)
實屬不易	really not easy (idiom)
實幹	to work industriously; to get things done
實幹家	sb who gets things done; doer
實彈	live ammunition
實心	sincere; solid
實心皮球	medicine ball
實情	the actual situation; the truth
實惠	tangible benefit; material advantages; cheap
實意	sincere; real meaning
實戰	real combat; actual combat
實打實	(coll.) rock-solid; no-nonsense; undeniably genuine (esp. of skills, effort, performance or service)
實拍	candid photograph; genuine photograph (not set up or doctored)
實控人	(corporations law) actual controller (abbr. for 實際控制人|实际控制人[shi2 ji4 kong4 zhi4 ren2])
實操	to actually do (sth) (as opposed to learning how to do it from books etc)
實據	factual evidence
實收	net receipts; real income
實收資本	paid-in capital; contributed capital (finance)
實效	actual effect; practical result; efficacy
實數	real number (math.); actual value
實數值	real-valued (math.); taking real numbers as values (of a function)
實數集	set of real numbers
實施	to implement; to carry out
實施例	(patent) implementation; embodiment
實時	(in) real time; instantaneous
實景	real scene (not set up or posed)
實木	solid wood
實根	real root (of a polynomial)
實業	industry; commercial enterprise
實業家	industrialist
實權	real power; genuine power
實歲	one's age (calculated as years from birth)
實況	live (e.g. broadcast or recording); what is actually happening; scene
實況主	live vlogger; live-streamer
實況照片	live photo; motion photo (a still photo with a few seconds of video captured before and after the photo is taken)
實況轉播	to broadcast live from the scene; live relay
實況錄音	live recording
實洋	(publishing industry) revenue generated from the sale of books in an edition
實測	to take measurements
實物	material object; concrete object; original object
實物教學	object lesson
實現	to achieve; to implement; to realize; to bring about
實生苗	seedling
實用	to apply in practice
實用主義	pragmatism
實用價值	practical value
實相	actual situation; the ultimate essence of things (Buddhism)
實穿	(of an item of clothing) practical
實線	solid line; continuous line
實繳資本	paid-in capital; contributed capital (finance)
實習	to practice; field work; to intern
實習生	intern (esp. a student in practical training)
實職	active participation
實肘	full arm (method of painting)
實至名歸	fame follows merit (idiom)
實行	to implement; to carry out; to put into practice
實詞	(linguistics) content word
實話	truth
實話實說	to tell the truth; to tell it as it is
實誠	sincere; honest
實證	actual proof; concrete evidence; empirical
實證主義	positivism; empiricism
實變	(math.) real variable
實變函數	function of a real variable (math.)
實變函數論	(math.) theory of functions of a real variable
實質	substance; essence
實質上	virtually; essentially
實質性	substantive; substantial; material
實足	full; complete; all of
實踐	practice; to put into practice; to live up to (a promise)
實踐是檢驗真理的唯一標準	Actual practice is the sole criterion for judging truth (item from Deng Xiaoping theory, from 1978)
實錘	(neologism c. 2014) (slang) solid proof; irrefutable evidence
實際	reality; practice; practical
實際上	in fact; in reality; as a matter of fact
實際參數	(computing) actual parameter; argument
實際性	practicality
實際情況	actual circumstances; the real situation; reality
實際應用	practical application
實際控制人	(corporations law) actual controller
實際控制線	Line of Actual Control (LAC), separating Indian-controlled territory from Chinese-controlled territory
實驗	experiment; test; experimental
實驗室	laboratory
實驗室感染	laboratory infection
實驗心理學	experimental psychology
實驗所	laboratory; institute
實驗組	experimental group; treatment group
實體	entity; substance
實體層	physical layer (OSI)
實體店	brick and mortar business; physical (rather than online) retail store
實體書	physical book
寧	abbr. for Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 寧夏回族自治區|宁夏回族自治区[Ning2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
寧做雞頭，不做鳳尾	lit. would rather be a chicken's head than a phoenix's tail (idiom)
寧化縣	Ninghua, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
寧南縣	Ningnan, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
寧可	preferably; one would prefer to...(or not to...); would rather
寧國市	Ningguo, a county-level city in Xuancheng City 宣城市[Xuan1 cheng2 Shi4], Anhui
寧城縣	Ningcheng, a county in Chifeng City 赤峰市[Chi4 feng1 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
寧夏回族自治區	Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, capital Yinchuan 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4] (short name 寧|宁[Ning2])
寧夏省	former Ningxia province, now Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 寧夏回族自治區|宁夏回族自治区[Ning2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
寧安市	Ning'an, a county-level city in Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
寧宗	Emperor Ningzong of Southern Song (1168-1224)
寧左勿右	(of one's political views) to prefer left rather than right (idiom during the Cultural Revolution)
寧強縣	Ningqiang, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
寧德市	Ningde, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
寧拆十座廟，不毀一樁婚	rather destroy ten temples than a single marriage (idiom)
寧明縣	Ningming, a county in Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
寧晉縣	Ningjin, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
寧武縣	Ningwu, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
寧死不屈	rather die than submit (idiom)
寧江區	Ningjiang, a district of Songyuan City 松原市[Song1 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
寧波市	Ningbo, sub-provincial city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
寧津縣	Ningjin, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
寧洱哈尼族彝族自治縣	Ning'er Hani and Yi Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
寧海縣	Ninghai, a county in Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
寧為玉碎，不為瓦全	Better broken jade than intact tile.
寧縣	Ning County or Ningxian, a county in Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
寧缺勿濫	same as 寧缺毋濫|宁缺毋滥[ning4 que1 wu2 lan4]
寧缺毋濫	better to have nothing (than substandard choice) (idiom); would prefer to go without than accept shoddy option
寧肯	would rather...; it would be better...; would prefer
寧蒗彝族自治縣	Ninglang Yi Autonomous County, in Lijiang City 麗江市|丽江市[Li4 jiang1 Shi4], Yunnan
寧遠縣	Ningyuan, a county in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
寧邊	Yongbyon (Ryeongbyeon), site of North Korean nuclear reactor
寧都縣	Ningdu, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
寧鄉市	Ningxiang, a county-level city in Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
寧陝縣	Ningshan, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
寧陵縣	Ningling, a county in Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
寧陽縣	Ningyang, a county in Tai'an City 泰安市[Tai4 an1 Shi4], Shandong
寧靜	tranquil; tranquility; serenity
寧靜致遠	tranquility yields transcendence (idiom); quiet life of profound study
寧願	would rather ... (than ...)
寨	stronghold; stockade; camp
寨卡病毒	Zika virus
審	to examine; to investigate; carefully
審判	a trial; to try sb
審判員	judge (in court)
審判官	judge; magistrate
審判席	judgment seat
審判庭	court; tribunal; courtroom
審判欄	judgment bar
審判權	jurisdiction; judicial authority
審判長	presiding judge
審問	to interrogate; to examine; to question
審定	to examine sth and make a decision; to screen; to evaluate
審察	to investigate; to examine closely
審幹	to examine the cadres (i.e. 審查幹部|审查干部[shen3 cha2 gan4 bu4])
審度	to observe and form a judgment
審度時勢	to examine and judge the situation
審慎	prudent; cautious
審慎行事	to act prudently; steering a cautious course
審批	to examine and approve; to endorse
審改	to check and revise
審斷	to examine
審時度勢	to judge the hour and size up the situation; to take stock
審查	to examine; to investigate; to censor out
審校	to proof-read; to review (a text)
審核	to audit; to investigate thoroughly
審理	to hear (a case)
審稿	to review (a paper or manuscript)
審稿人	reviewer (of a paper)
審級	appeal (to higher courts)
審級制度	system of appeals (to higher court)
審結	(law) to try (a criminal case) and reach a conclusion
審美	esthetics; appreciating the arts; taste
審美快感	esthetic pleasure
審美活動	appreciating the arts; esthetic activity
審美疲勞	aesthetic fatigue
審美眼光	an eye for beauty; aesthetic judgment
審美觀	esthetic conception; esthetic point of view; standard
審處	to deliberate and decide; to try and punish; trial and execution
審視	to look closely at; to examine
審訂	to revise; to examine and revise
審計	to audit; to examine finances
審計員	accountant; auditor
審計署	audit office; public accounts committee
審計長	auditor
審訊	inquest; trial; interrogation
審諦	to look at sth carefully; to examine
審議	(of a committee etc) to deliberate; to consider; to discuss
審讀	to read (a draft); to review
審酌	examination; to check and review
審閱	to review or peruse
寪	surname Wei
寫	used in 寫意|写意[xie4 yi4]
寫下	to write down
寫作	to write; to compose; writing
寫信	to write a letter
寫字	to write (by hand); to practice calligraphy
寫字板	writing tablet; clipboard
寫字樓	office building
寫字檯	writing desk
寫完	to finish writing
寫實	realism; realistic portrayal; realistic
寫意	to suggest (rather than depict in detail)
寫意畫	freehand drawing or painting in traditional Chinese style
寫手	person who writes articles - newspapers, magazines, blogs (informal)
寫本	handwritten copy of a book
寫死	to hard code (computing)
寫法	style of writing (literary style); way of writing a character
寫照	portrayal
寫生	to sketch from nature; to do a still life drawing
寫真	portrait; to describe sth accurately
寫真集	photobook (loanword from Japanese), generally sexy portraits of an actress or model
寫道	to write (used before or after a quoted passage)
寬	wide; broad; loose
寬亮	wide and bright; without worries; deep and sonorous (voice)
寬以待人	to be lenient with others (idiom)
寬假	to pardon; to excuse
寬免	to reduce payment; to annul (debts, bills, taxes etc)
寬厚	tolerant; generous; magnanimous
寬口	wide mouth
寬吻海豚	bottle-nosed dolphin (Tursiops truncatus)
寬嘴鶲鶯	(bird species of China) broad-billed warbler (Tickellia hodgsoni)
寬城區	Kuancheng, a district of Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
寬城滿族自治縣	Kuancheng Manchu Autonomous County, in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
寬大	spacious; wide; lenient
寬大為懷	magnanimous (idiom); generous
寬宏	magnanimous
寬宏大度	magnanimous; generous; broad-minded
寬宏大量	magnanimous (idiom); generous
寬宥	to pardon; to forgive
寬容	lenient; tolerant; indulgent
寬尾樹鶯	(bird species of China) Cetti's warbler (Cettia cetti)
寬屏	widescreen
寬展	happy
寬帶	broadband
寬度	width
寬廣	wide; broad; extensive
寬廣度	width; breadth
寬弘	magnanimous; generous; broad-minded
寬影片	wide-screen movie
寬待	to treat leniently; liberal treatment
寬心	relieved; comforted; to relieve anxieties
寬心丸	reassuring explanation; consolatory words
寬恕	to forgive; forgiveness
寬慰	to console; to soothe; relieved
寬打窄用	to give oneself leeway (idiom); to allow room for error
寬敞	spacious; wide
寬斧	broadax; ax with a wide blade
寬暢	with no worries; cheerful; spacious
寬曠	vast; extensive
寬泛	wide-ranging
寬洪	magnanimous; generous; broad-minded
寬洪大度	magnanimous; generous; broad-minded
寬洪大量	magnanimous; generous; broad-minded
寬減	tax relief
寬爽	happy
寬甸滿族自治縣	Kuandian Manchu Autonomous County, in Dandong City 丹東市|丹东市[Dan1 dong1 Shi4], Liaoning
寬窄	width; breadth
寬綽	spacious; relaxed; at ease; comfortably well-off
寬緩	relieved; tensions relax
寬膠帶	duct tape
寬舒	happy; carefree
寬衣	please take off your coat (honorific); loose-fitting garment
寬衣解帶	to undress
寬裕	comfortably off; ample; plenty
寬解	to relieve anxieties
寬貸	to pardon; to excuse
寬赦	to forgive
寬銀幕電影	widescreen movie
寬闊	expansive; wide; width
寬限	to extend (a deadline etc)
寬限期	grace period; period of grace
寬頻	broadband
寬餘	ample; plentiful; affluent
寬饒	to forgive; to spare
寬鬆	spacious; roomy; uncrowded; (of clothes) loose and comfortable
寮	hut; shack; small window
寮國	Laos (Tw)
寮屋	squatter shacks
寮房	hut; simple dwelling; monk's hut
寰	large domain; extensive region
寰宇	the whole earth; the universe
寰球	(literary) the globe; the entire world
寰螽	eastern shield-backed katydid (genus Atlanticus)
寵	to love; to pamper; to spoil
寵信	to dote on and trust
寵兒	pet; favorite; darling
寵壞	to spoil (a child etc)
寵妾	favored concubine
寵妾滅妻	favor the concubine and do away with the wife (idiom)
寵姬	favorite concubine
寵幸	(old) (esp. of the Emperor) to show special favor towards
寵愛	to dote on sb
寵擅專房	an especially favored concubine (idiom)
寵溺	to spoil; to indulge
寵物	house pet
寵物門	pet door; pet flap
寵粉	to reward one's fans with special treatment
寵臣	favored minister
寶	jewel; gem; treasure
寶典	canonical text; treasury (i.e. book of treasured wisdom)
寶刀不老	lit. a good sword always remains sharp (idiom)
寶刀未老	treasure knife does not age (idiom); old but still vigorous
寶劍	(double-edged) sword (esp. a valuable or famous one)
寶可夢	Pokémon
寶嘉康蒂	Pocahontas (c. 1595-1617), native American noted for her association with the colony of Jamestown, Virginia
寶地	blessed land; a place rich in beauty or natural resources etc
寶坻	Baodi rural district in Tianjin 天津[Tian1 jin1]
寶坻區	Baodi rural district in Tianjin 天津[Tian1 jin1]
寶塔	pagoda
寶塔區	Baota, a district of Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
寶塔菜	Chinese artichoke (Stachys affinis), perennial plant with an edible rhizome
寶媽	a mom (mother of a young child)
寶子	(coll.) babe; darling; (Internet slang) (term of endearment used to address one's followers) bestie; fam
寶安區	Bao'an, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
寶寶	darling; baby
寶山	Baoshang District of Shanghai
寶山區	Baoshang district of Shanghai
寶島	Formosa
寶座	throne
寶庫	treasure-house; treasury
寶應縣	Baoying, a county in Yangzhou City 揚州市|扬州市[Yang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
寶成鐵路	Baoji-Chengdu Railway
寶書	treasured book
寶林	Po Lam (area in Hong Kong)
寶武鋼鐵	Baowu, the world's largest steel maker, resulting from the merger of Baosteel 寶鋼集團|宝钢集团[Bao3 gang1 Ji2 tuan2] and Wuhan Iron and Steel 武漢鋼鐵|武汉钢铁[Wu3 han4 Gang1 tie3] in 2016
寶殿	king's palace; throne hall
寶清縣	Baoqing, a county in Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
寶潔	Procter & Gamble (consumer goods company)
寶潔公司	Procter & Gamble
寶爸	a dad (father of a young child)
寶物	treasure
寶特瓶	plastic bottle
寶玉	precious jade; treasures
寶瓶	Aquarius (star sign)
寶瓶座	Aquarius (constellation and sign of the zodiac); also called 水瓶座
寶生佛	Ratnasambhava Buddha
寶石	precious stone; gem
寶興歌鶇	(bird species of China) Chinese thrush (Turdus mupinensis)
寶興縣	Baoxing, a county in Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
寶興鶥雀	(bird species of China) rufous-tailed babbler (Moupinia poecilotis)
寶船	Chinese treasure ship, a type of large sailing ship in the fleet of Ming dynasty admiral Zheng He 鄭和|郑和[Zheng4 He2]
寶萊塢	Bollywood (film industry based in Mumbai, India)
寶葫蘆	magic gourd, granting your every wish
寶葫蘆的秘密	Secret of the Magic Gourd (1958), prize-winning children's fairy tale by Zhang Tianyi 張天翼|张天翼[Zhang1 Tian1 yi4]
寶蓋	name of the "roof" radical 宀[mian2] (Kangxi radical 40)
寶蓋草	henbit deadnettle (Lamium amplexicaule)
寶藍	sapphire blue
寶藏	precious mineral deposits; hidden treasure; (fig.) treasure
寶血	(Christianity) Precious Blood (of Jesus Christ); Blood of Christ
寶誌	Baozhi, or Pao-chih, Chinese monk (418–514), also known as 保誌|保志 or 誌公|志公
寶豐縣	Baofeng, a county in Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
寶貝	treasured object; treasure; darling
寶貝疙瘩	(of a child) apple of one's eye
寶貨	precious object; treasure
寶貴	valuable; precious; to value
寶貼	Blu-tack (brand)
寶鋼	Baosteel, Chinese steel maker formed in a 1998 merger, then merged to form Baowu 寶武鋼鐵|宝武钢铁[Bao3 wu3 Gang1 tie3] in 2016
寶雞市	Baoji, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
寶馬	BMW (car company)
寶馬香車	precious horses and magnificent carriage (idiom); rich family with extravagant lifestyle
寶麗來	Polaroid
寶麗金	PolyGram (record label)
寸	a unit of length; inch; thumb
寸口	location on wrist over the radial artery where pulse is taken in TCM
寸口脈	pulse taken at the wrist (TCM)
寸土寸金	land is extremely expensive (in that area) (idiom)
寸步不讓	(idiom) not to yield an inch
寸步不離	to follow sb closely (idiom); to keep close to
寸步難行	unable to move a single step (idiom)
寸脈	pulse taken at the wrist (TCM)
寸草不生	(idiom) barren; devoid of vegetation
寸金難買寸光陰	An ounce of gold can't buy you an interval of time (idiom); Money can't buy you time.
寸陰	a very brief period of time (lit. the time it takes for a shadow to move an inch)
寸頭	(male hair style) crew cut; butch cut
寺	Buddhist temple; mosque; government office (old)
寺廟	temple; monastery; shrine
寺院	cloister; temple; monastery
封	to confer; to grant; to bestow a title
封一	front cover
封三	inside back cover
封丘縣	Fengqiu, a county in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
封二	inside front cover
封入	to enclose
封凍	to freeze over (of water or land)
封刀	to hang up the sword
封包	to package up; (computer networking) packet
封印	seal (on envelopes)
封口	to keep one's lips sealed; (of a wound) to heal
封口費	hush money
封四	back cover
封國	vassal state
封土	to heap earth (to close a tomb); a mound (covering a tomb)
封地	feudal fiefdom; land held as a vassal in feudal society; enfeoffment
封城	to lock down a city
封塵	to gather dust
封套	envelope; wrapper; (book) jacket
封妻蔭子	(idiom) to bestow a title on the wife of a deserving official and make his son heir to his titles
封存	to sequester; to seal up (for safe keeping); to freeze (an account)
封官許願	to offer official positions and material benefits in order to buy people's allegiance
封山育林	to restrict access to a mountainous area to promote natural forest regeneration
封底	the back cover of a book
封底裡	inside back cover
封建	system of enfeoffment; feudalism; feudal
封建主	feudal ruler
封建主義	feudalism
封建制度	feudalism
封建思想	feudal way of thinking
封建時代	feudal times
封建社會	feudal society
封控	to lock down
封條	seal
封檐板	barge board; weather board; eaves board (construction)
封殺	to shut out; to block; to smother
封沙育林	to restrict access to a sandy area to promote natural forest regeneration
封河期	freezing over of river in winter
封泥	sealing clay; lute
封港	to seal off a port
封火	to cover a fire (to make it burn slowly)
封爵	to confer a title; to ennoble; to knight
封王	to win the championship
封疆	border region
封皮	outer skin; envelope; cover
封神榜	Investiture of the Gods, major Ming dynasty vernacular novel of mythology and fantasy, very loosely based on King Wu of Zhou's 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2] overthrow of the Shang, subsequent material for opera, film, TV series, computer games etc
封神演義	Investiture of the Gods, major Ming dynasty vernacular novel of mythology and fantasy, very loosely based on King Wu of Zhou's 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2] overthrow of the Shang, subsequent material for opera, film, TV series, computer games etc
封禁	to ban (narcotics, a movie etc); to block (a road etc)
封禪	(of an emperor) to pay homage to Heaven at Mount Tai and to Earth at Mount Liangfu
封筆	to retire from writing or drawing
封網	to intercept at the net (volleyball, tennis etc)
封聖	(Catholicism) to canonize
封蓋	cap; seal; cover
封號	(archaic) title granted to a person; to ban an (online) account
封裝	to encapsulate; to enclose; to wrap
封裡	inside front cover (sometimes refers to both inside front and inside back covers)
封裹	to wrap up; to pack up
封路	road closure; to close a road
封邑	grant of territory by an emperor or monarch (old)
封鎖	to blockade; to seal off; to lock down
封鎖線	blockade line; cordon
封閉	to close; to seal off; to close down (an illegal venue)
封閉性	closed; encapsulated
封開縣	Fengkai, a county in Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
封面	cover (of a publication)
封頂	to put a roof (on a building)
封頂儀式	ceremony of capping the roof (to mark the completion of a building project)
封齋	fast (in several religions); Ramadan (Islam)
封齋節	Lent
尃	to state to, to announce
射	to shoot; to launch; to allude to
射中	to hit the target
射出	emission; ejaculation
射干	blackberry lily (Belamcanda chinensis); leopard lily
射影	(geometry) projection
射影幾何	projective geometry
射影變換	a projective transformation
射手	archer; shooter; marksman
射手座	Sagittarius (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
射擊	to shoot; to fire (a gun)
射擊學	ballistics
射殺	to shoot dead (with a gun, or bow and arrow)
射洪市	Shehong, a county-level city in Suining City 遂寧市|遂宁市[Sui4 ning2 Shi4], Sichuan
射流	jet (math.)
射燈	spotlight
射程	range; reach; firing range
射箭	archery; to shoot an arrow
射精	ejaculation; to ejaculate
射精管	ejaculatory duct
射線	ray
射釘槍	nail gun; stud gun
射門	(soccer, handball etc) to kick or shoot the ball towards the goal
射陽縣	Sheyang, a county in Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
射電	radio wave (astronomy)
射電望遠鏡	radio telescope
射頻	radio frequency (RF)
射頻噪聲	radio frequency noise
射頻干擾	radio interference; RF interference
射頻調諧器	RF tuner
射頻識別	radio-frequency identification (RFID)
射鵰英雄傳	Legend of the Condor Heroes, wuxia (武俠|武侠[wu3 xia2], martial arts chivalry) novel by Jin Yong 金庸[Jin1 Yong1] and its screen adaptations
將	(bound form) a general; (literary) to command; to lead
將今論古	to observe the present to study the past
將令	(old) (military) a command; an order
將伯	to ask for assistance
將伯之助	assistance that one gets from another
將來	in the future; future; the future
將功補過	to make up for one's faults by doing good deeds (idiom)
將功贖罪	to atone for one's crimes by meritorious acts
將勤補拙	(idiom) to compensate for lack of ability with hard work
將士	officers and soldiers
將官	general
將就	to accept (a bit reluctantly); to put up with
將帥	commander-in-chief, the equivalent of king in Chinese chess
將心比心	to put oneself in sb else's shoes (idiom)
將息	(literary) to rest; to recuperate
將才	talented field commander (military)
將會	auxiliary verb introducing future action: may (be able to)
將棋	Japanese chess (shōgi)
將樂縣	Jiangle, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
將死	to checkmate (in chess); to be about to die
將牌	trump (suit of cards)
將至	to be about to arrive; to be around the corner
將要	will; shall; to be going to
將計就計	to beat sb at their own game (idiom)
將軍	general; high-ranking military officer; to check or checkmate
將軍肚	potbelly
將軍肚子	beer belly (complimentary)
將近	almost; nearly; close to
將錯就錯	lit. if it's wrong, it's wrong (idiom); to make the best after a mistake
將領	high-ranking military officer
專	for a particular person, occasion, purpose; focused on one thing
專一	single-minded; concentrated
專事	specialized
專人	specialist; person appointed for specific task
專任	full-time; to appoint sb to a specific task
專八	TEM-8 or Test for English Majors-Band 8, highest level proficiency test for English major students in PRC (abbr. for 英語專業八級考試|英语专业八级考试[Ying1 yu3 Zhuan1 ye4 Ba1 ji2 Kao3 shi4])
專列	special train; abbr. for 專門列車|专门列车[zhuan1 men2 lie4 che1]
專利	patent
專利局	patent office
專利權	patent right
專利法	patent law
專利藥品	patent drugs
專制	autocracy; dictatorship
專制主義	absolutism; despotism; autocracy
專制君主制	absolute monarchy; autocracy
專區	area established for a designated purpose
專司	to work solely on; to have as one's (or its) sole function
專名	proper noun
專名詞	proper noun
專員	assistant director; commissioner
專場	special performance
專家	expert; specialist
專家系統	expert system
專家評價	expert evaluation
專家評論	expert commentary
專屬	to belong or be dedicated exclusively to; proprietary; private; personal
專屬經濟區	exclusive economic zone
專心	to focus one's attention; to concentrate on (doing sth)
專心一意	to concentrate on
專心致志	(idiom) single-minded; fully focused
專意	deliberately; on purpose
專控	exclusive control
專擅	without authorization; to act on one's own initiative
專攻	to specialize in; to major in
專政	dictatorship
專斷	to act arbitrarily; to make decisions without consulting others
專有	exclusive; proprietary
專有名詞	technical term; proper noun
專案	project
專案小組	task force
專案組	special investigation team (legal or judicial)
專案經理	project manager
專業	specialty; specialized field; main field of study (at university)
專業人士	a professional
專業人才	expert (in a field)
專業化	specialization
專業性	professionalism; specialization
專業戶	rural household that specializes in a particular type of product
專業教育	specialized education; technical school
專機	chartered plane; VIP aircraft
專橫	imperious; peremptory
專櫃	sales counter dedicated to a certain kind of product (e.g. alcohol)
專欄	special column
專權	autocracy; dictatorship
專款	special fund; money allocated for a particular purpose
專治	(of medicine) to use specifically for the treatment of
專注	to focus; to concentrate; to give one's full attention
專營	to specialize in (a particular product or service); monopoly
專營店	exclusive agency; franchised shop; authorized store
專用	special; dedicated
專用網路	dedicated network
專用集成電路	application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC)
專碩	professional master's degree (abbr. for 專業學位碩士|专业学位硕士[zhuan1 ye4 xue2 wei4 shuo4 shi4])
專科	specialized subject; branch (of medicine); specialized training school
專科學校	specialized school; college for professional training; polytechnic
專科院校	academy
專程	specifically; specially (for that purpose)
專管	to be in charge of something specific
專線	special-purpose phone line or communications link; hotline
專美於前	to monopolize the limelight (idiom); to get all the glory
專職	special duty; assigned full time to a task
專著	monograph; specialized text
專訪	to interview (a particular person or on a particular topic)
專責	specific responsibility
專賣	monopoly; exclusive right to trade
專賣店	specialty store
專車	special (or reserved) train (or bus etc); limousine
專輯	album; record (music)
專遞	to make a special delivery; to courier
專長	specialty; special knowledge or ability
專門	specialized; dedicated (to a particular field or purpose)
專門人員	specialist; specialized staff
專門列車	special train
專門化	to specialize
專門家	specialist
專門機構	specialized agency
專項	special; dedicated
專題	specific topic (addressed by a book, lecture, TV program etc)
專題地圖	thematic map
專題報導	special report (in the media)
專題片	special report (shown on TV etc)
尉	used in 尉遲|尉迟[Yu4 chi2]
尉氏縣	Weishi, a county in Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
尉犁縣	Yuli, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
尉繚	Wei Lao (c. 450 BC, dates of birth and death unknown), advisor to the first Qin emperor Qin Shihuang 秦始皇[Qin2 Shi3 huang2], possible author of the Wei Liaozi 尉繚子|尉缭子[Wei4 Liao2 zi5] text on military strategy
尉繚子	Wei Liaozi, one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1], possibly written by Wei Liao 尉繚|尉缭[Wei4 Liao2] during the Warring States Period (475-220 BC)
尉遲	two-character surname Yuchi
尉遲恭	General Yuchi Gong (585-658), famous military man instrumental in founding the Tang dynasty
尊	senior; of a senior generation; to honor
尊公	(honorific) your father
尊卑	superior and subordinate; social ranking
尊君	(honorific) your father
尊命	your order (honorific)
尊嚴	dignity; sanctity; honor
尊堂	(honorific) your mother
尊奉	worship; to revere; to venerate
尊容	august countenance; your face (usually mocking)
尊尚	(literary) to esteem; to uphold
尊崇	to revere; to admire; to honor
尊師	revered master
尊師貴道	to revere the master and his teaching
尊意	(honorific) your respected opinion; What do you think, your majesty?
尊敬	to respect; to revere; to esteem
尊榮	honor and glory
尊稱	to address sb deferentially; title; honorific
尊翁	(honorific) your father
尊老	respect the aged
尊老愛幼	respect the old and cherish the young
尊者	honored sir (a person of higher status or seniority, or a Buddhist monk)
尊號	honorific title
尊親	(honorific) your parent
尊親屬	(law) elder relatives; relatives of a senior generation such as parents, uncles or grandparents
尊貴	respected; respectable; honorable
尊賢使能	to respect talent and make use of ability (Mencius)
尊賢愛物	to honor the wise and love the people
尊重	to esteem; to respect; to honor
尊長	one's superior; one's elders and betters
尊駕	lit. your honored carriage; your highness
尊魚	trout
尋	to search; to look for; to seek
尋事生非	to look for trouble
尋仇	to carry out a vendetta against sb
尋出	to find out; to search out; to uncover
尋味	to think sth over
尋呼機	pager; beeper
尋問	to inquire
尋回犬	retriever (dog breed group)
尋址	to address; to search for address; to input data into memory
尋寶	treasure hunt
尋常	usual; common; ordinary
尋思	to consider; to ponder
尋找	to seek; to look for
尋摸	to look for; to explore; to probe
尋根	to seek one's roots; to get to the bottom of a matter
尋根問底	lit. to examine roots and inquire at the base (idiom); to get to the bottom of sth
尋機	to look for an opportunity
尋歡	to seek pleasure (esp. sexual)
尋歡作樂	pleasure seeking (idiom); life of dissipation
尋死	to attempt suicide; to court death
尋水術	dowsing
尋求	to seek; to look for
尋烏縣	Xunwu, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
尋獲	to find; to track down; to recover (sth lost)
尋甸回族彝族自治縣	Xundian Hui and Yi Autonomous County, in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
尋的	homing; target-seeking (military)
尋短見	to commit suicide
尋租	rent seeking (economics)
尋花	flower-viewing; to visit a prostitute
尋花問柳	lit. to enjoy the beautiful spring scenery (idiom)
尋覓	to look for
尋訪	to inquire after; to look for (sb)
尋釁	to pick a quarrel; to start a fight
尋釁滋事罪	disorderly behavior (PRC law)
尋開心	to make fun of; to seek diversion
尌	standing up; to stand (something) up
對	right; correct; towards; at; for; concerning; regarding
對上	to fit one into the other; to bring two things into contact
對不上	to disagree; I can't agree with that.
對不住	to let sb down; to be unfair; I'm sorry
對不對	right or wrong?; Is it right?; OK, yes? (colloquial)
對不起	I'm sorry; excuse me; I beg your pardon
對世權	(law) absolute rights; erga omnes rights
對么	pair of aces (in dominoes); double one
對乙酰氨基酚	paracetamol; acetaminophen
對了	Correct!
對事不對人	it's nothing personal (idiom)
對仗	antithesis (two lines of poetry matching in sense and sound); to fight
對付	to handle; to deal with; to tackle; to get by with; to make do
對位	counterpoint (in music etc); to align; alignment
對偶	dual; duality; antithesis
對偶多面體	dual polyhedron
對偶性	(math.) duality
對價	consideration (in exchange for shares); a quid pro quo
對內	internal; national; domestic (policy)
對刺	bayonet practice in pairs
對勁	suitable; to one's liking; to get along well; to be compatible
對勁兒	erhua form of 對勁|对劲[dui4 jin4]
對半	in half; evenly (into two parts); fifty-fifty
對口	(of two performers) to speak or sing alternately
對口型	to lip-sync
對口徑	to arrange to give the same story
對口相聲	comic crosstalk
對口詞	dialogue (for stage performance)
對句	couplet
對合	a profit equal to the amount one invested; (math.) involution
對味兒	tasty; to one's liking
對唱	in duet; answering phrase; antiphonal answer
對嘴	to lip-sync
對地	targeted (e.g. attacks)
對坐	to sit facing each other
對壘	to face off against one's adversary (military, sports etc)
對外	external; foreign; pertaining to external or foreign (affairs)
對外政策	foreign policy
對外經濟貿易大學	University of International Business and Economics
對外聯絡部	CCP central committee's external affairs department (i.e. Chinese communist party's foreign office)
對外貿易	foreign trade
對外關係	foreign relations
對子	pair of antithetical phrases; antithetical couplet
對家	partner (in four person game); family of proposed marriage partner
對對子	to supply the answering phrase
對對碰	concentration (a pair-matching game)
對局	opposing sides (in chess etc); position (of opposing forces)
對岸	opposite bank (of a body of water)
對峙	(of mountains etc) to stand facing each other
對工	proper
對工兒	proper
對弈	to play go, chess etc
對待	to treat; treatment
對得起	not to let sb down; to treat sb fairly; be worthy of
對心	congenial; to one's liking
對應	to correspond (to); to be equivalent to; to be a counterpart to
對應詞	(linguistics) an equivalent; a translation of a term into the target language
對我來說	as far as I'm concerned
對戰	to do battle (with sb)
對手	opponent; rival; competitor
對打	to fight (one against one)
對抗	to withstand; to resist; to stand off
對抗性	antagonistic
對抗者	adversary; opponent
對抗賽	duel; match; competition between paired opponents (e.g. sporting)
對接	to join up; to dock; a joint (between components)
對換	to exchange; to swap
對摺	to sell at a 50% discount; to fold in two
對撞	to collide head-on
對撞機	a particle collider
對攻	to attack (one another)
對敵	to confront; to face the enemy
對數	(math.) logarithm
對數函數	logarithmic function
對方	the other person; the other side; the other party
對方付款電話	collect call
對方付費電話	collect call
對於	regarding; as far as (sth) is concerned; with regard to
對日	(policy etc) towards Japan
對映	to be the mirror image of sth; enantiomorphic; antipodal
對映異構	enantiomeric isomerism (chemistry)
對映異構體	enantiomeric isomer (chemistry)
對映體	enantiomer (chemistry)
對望	to look at each other
對本	(a return) equal to the capital; 100 percent profit
對杯	to raise glasses together; to toast one another
對案	counterproposal
對標	to compare a product with (a rival product)
對歌	answering phrase of duet; to sing antiphonal answer
對比	to contrast; contrast; ratio
對比度	contrast (balance of black and white in TV screen setup)
對比溫度	(thermodynamics) reduced temperature (used to compare fluids at different temperatures relative to their critical points)
對比聯想	(psychology) contrastive association
對比色	color contrast
對氨基苯丙酮	p-aminopropiophenone
對決	confrontation; contest; showdown
對沖	hedging (finance)
對沖基金	hedge fund
對流	convection
對流層	(meteorology) troposphere
對流層頂	tropopause; top of troposphere
對消	in equilibrium; to cancel out (of opposite forces) (physics)
對準	to aim at; to target; to point at
對火	to use the tip of another person’s lit cigarette to light one's own
對焦	to focus (a camera)
對照	to contrast; to compare
對照組	control group
對照表	comparison table
對版	(of a product) to match the advertised description
對牛彈琴	lit. to play the lute to a cow (idiom)
對生	(botany) opposite leaf arrangement; paired leaf arrangement
對症	correct diagnosis; to prescribe the right cure for an illness
對症下藥	lit. to prescribe the right medicine for an illness (idiom); fig. to study a problem to find the right way to solve it
對白	dialogue (in a movie or a play)
對眼	to squint; to one's liking
對稱	symmetry; symmetrical
對稱性	symmetry
對稱破缺	symmetry breaking (physics)
對稱空間	symmetric space (math.)
對稱美	symmetry (as an aesthetic quality)
對稱軸	axis of symmetry; central axis (in Chinese architecture)
對空射擊	anti-aircraft fire; to shoot at enemy planes
對空火器	anti-aircraft gun
對立	to oppose; to set sth against; to be antagonistic to
對立面	opposite; antonym; the opposite side (in a conflict)
對等	equal in status; on an equal footing; of equal standing (esp. between two parties)
對答	to reply; to answer; response
對答如流	able to reply quickly and fluently (idiom); having a ready answer
對策	countermeasure for dealing with a situation
對簿	to confront sb with accusation
對簿公堂	public courtroom accusation (idiom); legal confrontation
對罵	to trade insults
對美	(policy etc) towards America
對羥基苯甲酸酯	paraben (chemistry)
對聯	rhyming couplet
對胃口	to one's taste; to one's liking
對苯醌	1,4-benzoquinone (chemistry); para-benzoquinone
對茬兒	to agree with; of the same opinion; to coincide
對華	(policy etc) towards China
對著和尚罵賊禿	(lit.) in the presence of a monk, insult another monk, calling him a bald-headed bandit (saying)
對著幹	to adopt confrontational posture; to meet head-on; to compete
對號	tick; check mark (✓)
對號入座	to take one's seat according to the ticket number
對號座	reserved seat; assigned seat
對蝦	prawn; shrimp
對蝦科	penaeidae (the prawn or shrimp family)
對襟	buttoned Chinese jacket
對襯	to serve as foil to one another
對視	to look face to face
對親	courting; meeting for purpose of marriage
對角	opposite angle
對角線	(geometry) a diagonal
對詞	(of actors) to practice lines together; to rehearse a dialogue
對話	to talk (with sb); dialogue; conversation
對話框	dialog box (computing)
對話課	conversation class
對課	to give answering phrase (school exercise in memory or composition)
對調	to swap places; to exchange roles
對談	to talk with sb (face to face); discussion; talk
對講機	intercom; walkie-talkie
對講電話	intercom
對證	confrontation
對象	target; object; partner; boyfriend; girlfriend
對質	to confront (in court etc); confrontation
對賬	to verify accounting records
對賭	to place a bet (with sb)
對路	suitable; to one's liking
對蹠點	antipode
對過	across; opposite; the other side
對酌	to sit face-to-face and drink
對酒當歌	lit. sing to accompany wine (idiom); fig. life is short, make merry while you can
對錶	to set or synchronize a watch
對門	the building or room opposite
對開	running in opposite direction (buses, trains, ferries etc)
對陣	(of armies) to face each other, ready for battle
對面	opposite; across (the street etc); directly in front of one; up ahead
對頂角	angle to the vertical; angle (between two lines or two planes)
對頭	correct; normal; to be on good terms with
對馬	Tsushima Island, between Japan and South Korea
對馬島	Tsushima Island, between Japan and South Korea
對馬海峽	Tsushima Strait, between Japan and South Korea
對齊	to align; (typography) to justify
導	to transmit; to lead; to guide
導入	to introduce into; to channel; to lead
導入期	introductory phase or period
導出	to derive; derived; derivation
導出值	value deduced by calculation; derived value
導出範疇	(math.) derived category
導函數	derived function; derivative f' of a function f
導向	to be oriented towards; orientation
導員	(coll.) student counselor (in Chinese universities) (abbr. for 輔導員|辅导员[fu3 dao3 yuan2])
導報	guide (used in newspaper names)
導尿	to insert a urinary catheter
導尿管	urinary catheter
導師	tutor; teacher; academic advisor
導引	same as 引導|引导[yin3 dao3]
導彈	(guided) missile
導戲	to direct a movie or play
導播	to direct a television or radio broadcast; director (TV, radio)
導數	derivative (math.)
導樂	(loanword) doula
導正	(Tw) to guide sb in the right direction; to correct (behavior etc)
導流板	spoiler (automotive)
導液管	(medicine) catheter
導演	to direct; director (film etc)
導火索	fuse (for explosive)
導火線	fuse (for explosives); (fig.) proximate cause; the last straw
導熱性	heat conduction
導熱膏	thermal grease
導盲犬	guide dog (for the blind); Seeing Eye dog
導盲磚	(Tw) tactile paving tile
導盲道	(Tw) path for the visually impaired (made with tactile paving)
導管	duct; pipe; conduit; (botany) vessel; (medicine) catheter
導管組織	vascular tissue
導線	electrical lead
導致	to lead to; to create; to cause; to bring about
導航	(lit. and fig.) to navigate
導航員	navigator (on a plane or boat)
導覽	(visitor, tour, audio etc) guide; guided tour; (site) navigator
導言	introduction; preamble
導語	preamble; introduction; (journalism) lede
導論	introduction
導護	(Tw) (of a teacher or parent volunteer) to perform student safety duty, guiding students and maintaining traffic order during arrival and dismissal
導讀	guide (e.g. book or other printed material)
導購	shopper's guide; shop assistant; sales staff
導軌	(mechanics) guide rail; slideway
導輪	guide pulley; foreword; preface
導遊	tour guide; guidebook; to conduct a tour
導電	to conduct electricity
導電性	conductivity (elec.)
導體	conductor (of electricity or heat)
小	small; tiny; few
小case	(slang) a piece of cake; a simple matter
小三	mistress; the other woman (coll.); grade 3 in elementary school
小三勸退師	consultant who breaks up sb's extramarital relationship for a fee
小三和弦	minor triad la-do-mi
小三度	minor third (musical interval)
小不忍則亂大謀	(idiom) great plans can be ruined by just a touch of impatience
小不點	tiny; very small; tiny thing
小丑	clown
小丑魚	clownfish; anemonefish
小丘	hill; knoll
小乘	Hinayana, the Lesser Vehicle
小九九	multiplication tables; (fig.) plan; scheme
小事	trifle; trivial matter
小事一樁	trivial matter; a piece of cake
小二	waiter
小亞細亞	Asia Minor; Anatolia
小人	person of low social status (old)
小人得志	lit. a vile character flourishes (idiom)
小人書	children's picture story book
小人物	nonentity; a nobody
小人精	exceptionally bright kid; child prodigy
小仙女	girl fairy; beautiful girl or young woman
小仙鶲	(bird species of China) small niltava (Niltava macgrigoriae)
小企業	small enterprise
小伙	young guy; lad; youngster
小作怡情，大作傷身	an occasional display of histrionics can add a playful element to a relationship, but overdoing it can lead to a breakup (admonishment derived from the saying 小酌怡情，大酌傷身|小酌怡情，大酌伤身[xiao3 zhuo2 yi2 qing2 , da4 zhuo2 shang1 shen1])
小便	urine; to urinate; (euphemism) penis or vulva
小便器	urinal
小便宜	petty advantage; small gains
小便斗	urinal
小便池	urinal
小偷	thief
小偷兒	erhua form of 小偷[xiao3 tou1]
小偷小摸	to engage in petty theft
小傳	sketch biography; profile
小兒	(coll.) early childhood; (coll.) baby boy
小兒科	pediatrics; pediatric (department); sth of little importance
小兒經	Xiao'erjing, refers to the use of the Arabic alphabet to write Chinese
小兒軟骨病	(medicine) rickets
小兒麻痺	polio (poliomyelitis)
小兒麻痺病毒	poliovirus
小兒麻痺症	poliomyelitis; infantile paralysis
小兩口	(coll.) young married couple
小公主	lit. little princess; fig. spoiled girl
小公共	mini bus (used for public transportation)
小冊子	booklet; pamphlet; leaflet
小刀	knife
小刀會	Dagger Society, anti-Qing secret society who mounted an unsuccessful rebellion in 1855
小別勝新婚	reunion after an absence is sweeter than being newlyweds (idiom)
小動作	bad habit (e.g. nose-picking); petty maneuver; dirty trick
小勝	(sports) to secure a narrow win; to edge out
小包	packet
小區	housing estate; community; neighborhood; (telecommunications) cell
小區廣播	(telecommunications) cell broadcast
小升初	progression from elementary school to junior high (abbr. for 小學生升入初中生|小学生升入初中生[xiao3 xue2 sheng1 sheng1 ru4 chu1 zhong1 sheng1])
小半	a portion smaller than a half; the lesser part; the smaller part
小卒	foot soldier; minor figure; a nobody
小卷	young squid (Tw)
小叔	husband's younger brother; brother-in-law
小叔子	(coll.) husband's younger brother
小受	(slang) bottom (in a homosexual relationship)
小可	small; unimportant; (polite) my humble person
小可愛	cutie; sweetie; (Tw) camisole (women's garment)
小吃	street food; snack
小吃店	snack bar; lunch room
小同鄉	person from the same county
小名	pet name for a child; childhood name
小吞噬細胞	microphage (a type of white blood cell)
小品	short, simple literary or artistic creation; essay; skit
小哥	(coll.) young man; polite or friendly form of address or reference for a young male
小哥哥	little boy who is older than another young child (e.g. his playmate)
小商販	small trader; peddler
小嗓	falsetto (in Chinese opera)
小嘴烏鴉	(bird species of China) carrion crow (Corvus corone)
小嘴鴴	(bird species of China) Eurasian dotterel (Eudromias morinellus)
小團體主義	cliquism; small-group mentality
小型	small scale; small size
小型企業	small business
小型巴士	minibus; microbus
小型核武器	mini-nuke
小型櫃櫥	cabinet
小型汽車	compact car
小型貨車	light van
小型車	compact car
小城	small town
小報	tabloid newspaper
小壽星	child whose birthday is being celebrated; birthday boy; birthday girl
小夜	the first half of the night; evening (cf. 大夜[da4 ye4], early morning)
小夜曲	serenade
小夜班	evening shift; early night shift
小夥子	(coll.) young man; young fellow; lad
小天鵝	(bird species of China) tundra swan (Cygnus columbianus)
小太太	concubine; mistress
小太平鳥	(bird species of China) Japanese waxwing (Bombycilla japonica)
小太陽	parabolic heater; heat dish
小女	my daughter (humble)
小女人	dainty and delicate girl; concubine
小奶狗	(slang) naive, clingy, emotionally dependent, cute young guy (type of boyfriend)
小妖	small demon
小妖精	goblin; hussy; floozy
小妹	little sister; girl
小妹妹	little sister; little girl; (coll.) vulva
小姐	young lady; miss; (slang) prostitute
小姐姐	little girl who is older than another young child (e.g. her playmate)
小姑	father's youngest sister; husband's younger sister; sister-in-law
小姑子	(coll.) husband's younger sister; sister-in-law
小姨	mother's youngest sister; wife's younger sister; sister-in-law
小姨子	(coll.) wife's younger sister; sister-in-law (term not used to directly address her)
小娃	child
小娃娃	baby
小婊砸	(slang) little biyatch (variation of 小婊子)
小婿	my son-in-law (humble); I (spoken to parents-in-law)
小媳婦	young married woman; mistress; (fig.) punching bag
小媽	father's concubine; (coll.) stepmother (esp. a young stepmother)
小子	(coll.) boy; (derog.) joker; guy
小孩	child
小孩哥	(slang) young boy who displays skills, maturity, or coolness beyond his age
小孩堤防	Kinderdijk, village in the Netherlands with a large network of windmills attracting many tourists
小孩姐	(slang) young girl who displays skills, maturity, or coolness beyond her age
小孩子	child
小學	elementary school; primary school
小學生	primary school student; schoolchild; (fig.) beginner
小學而大遺	to concentrate on trivial points while neglecting the main problem (idiom)
小官	petty official; minor functionary
小家子氣	petty; small-minded
小家碧玉	pretty daughter in a humble family
小家鼠	house mouse
小寒	Lesser Cold, 23rd of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 6th-19th January
小寨	Xiaozhai neighborhood of Xi'an
小寫	lowercase
小寫字母	lowercase (letters)
小將	(in classical literature) young military officer of high rank for his age
小小	very small; very few; very minor
小小說	flash fiction
小屁孩	kid; youngster; (derog.) brat
小屋	cabin; lodge; cottage
小岩洞	grotto
小島	Kojima (Japanese surname and place name)
小川	Ogawa (Japanese surname)
小巧	small and exquisite; delicate; fine (features)
小巧玲瓏	(idiom) dainty; delicate; exquisite
小巫見大巫	lit. minor magician in the presence of a great one (idiom)
小己	an individual
小巴	minibus
小巷	alley
小幅	by a small margin; slightly (increase or decrease)
小年夜	(coll.) the night before lunisolar New Year's Eve
小年輕	(coll.) young person; youngster
小店	small store
小店區	Xiaodian, a district of Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
小康	Xiaokang, a Confucian near-ideal state of society, second only to Datong 大同[Da4 tong2]
小康社會	society in which the material needs of most citizens are adequately met
小廝	(literary) underage male servant
小廣播	grapevine; gossip; to spread rumors
小建	lunar month of 29 days; same as 小盡|小尽[xiao3 jin4]
小弟	little brother; I, your little brother (humble)
小弟弟	little brother; little boy; (coll.) penis
小強	(slang) cockroach ("Little Qiang" was originally the name given to a dead cockroach that had supposedly been a pet of the lead character in the 1993 Hong Kong comedy movie "Flirting Scholar". Subsequently, it came to be used as a name for any cockroach, and also for characters in film and television who are seemingly indestructible or repeatedly resurrected.)
小彈	bomblet (of cluster bomb)
小徑	alley; trail
小心	to be careful; to take care
小心地滑	(used on signs) caution – wet floor (lit. "be careful, the floor is slippery")
小心眼	narrow-minded; petty
小心眼兒	small-minded; petty; narrow-minded
小心翼翼	(idiom) cautious; careful; prudent
小心謹慎	cautious and timid (idiom); prudent; careful
小恭	(literary) urine
小意思	small token; mere trifle (used of one's gifts)
小憩	to rest for a bit; to take a breather
小懲大誡	lit. to punish a little to prevent a lot (idiom); to criticize former mistakes firmly to prevent large scale repetition
小我	the self; the individual
小扁豆	lentil
小手小腳	mean; stingy; to be lacking in boldness
小打小鬧	small-scale
小技	small skills; folk musical theater
小抄	cheat sheet; crib sheet
小折刀	pocketknife; penknife
小拇指	little finger; pinkie
小拐	to turn right (Shanghainese)
小括號	round brackets; parentheses ( )
小指	little finger
小提琴	fiddle; violin
小提琴手	violinist; fiddler
小插曲	episode; brief interlude
小攤	vendor's stall
小支氣管	bronchiole
小改改	(Internet slang) young lady (Cantonese-influenced alternative to 小姐姐[xiao3 jie3 jie5])
小攻	(slang) top (in a homosexual relationship)
小數	small figure; small amount
小數點	decimal point
小斑啄木鳥	(bird species of China) lesser spotted woodpecker (Dryobates minor)
小斑姬鶲	(bird species of China) little pied flycatcher (Ficedula westermanni)
小斑點	speckle
小於	less than, <
小日子	simple life
小日本	(derog.) Japanese person; Jap
小昊	Xiaohao (c. 2200 BC), leader of the Dongyi 東夷|东夷[Dong1 yi2] or Eastern Barbarians
小星頭啄木鳥	(bird species of China) Japanese pygmy woodpecker (Yungipicus kizuki)
小春	10th month of the lunar calendar; Indian summer
小昭寺	Ramoche Temple, Lhasa
小時	hour
小時了了，大未必佳	being bright at an early age does not necessarily bring success upon growing up (proverb)
小時候	in one's childhood
小時工	hourly worker; hourly job
小暑	Xiaoshu or Lesser Heat, 11th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 7th-22nd July
小曲	popular song; folk tune; ballad
小書籤	bookmarklet (computing)
小朋友	child; kid (used to refer to a child, or by an adult to address a child, or, in Taiwan, to refer to sb's own child)
小本	small capital; on a shoestring
小本生意	small business
小杓鷸	(bird species of China) little curlew (Numenius minutus)
小杜鵑	(bird species of China) lesser cuckoo (Cuculus poliocephalus)
小松菜	komatsuna, aka Japanese mustard spinach, a variety of Brassica rapa
小林	Kobayashi (Japanese surname)
小槌	mallet; drumstick
小樓	small multi-story building; modest house with two or more floors
小標題	subheading
小樣	galley proof (printing); unimpressive
小樹	shrub; small tree; sapling
小樹林	grove
小橋	Xiao Qiao, one of the Two Qiaos, according to Romance of the Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4], the two great beauties of ancient China
小橋流水	a small bridge over a flowing stream
小步舞曲	minuet
小段子	short paragraph; news article
小毛頭	(coll.) new-born baby; young boy
小民	ordinary people; commoner; civilian
小氣	stingy; miserly; narrow-minded
小氣候	microclimate; fig. local situation
小氣鬼	miser; penny-pincher
小池百合子	KOIKE Yuriko (1952-), Japanese LDP politician, minister of defense during 2008
小汽車	compact car
小河	creek; stream; brook
小油菜	a type of rapeseed plant (Brassica rapa) that yields a leafy green vegetable similar to baby bok choy
小泉	Koizumi (name)
小泉純一郎	KOIZUMI Jun'ichirō (1942-), Japanese LDP politician, prime minister 2001-2006
小泡	vesicles
小波	wavelet (math.)
小洞不補大洞吃苦	A small hole not plugged will make you suffer a big hole (idiom); a stitch in time saves nine
小淘氣	Rogue, Marvel Comics superhero
小淵	Obuchi (Japanese surname)
小淵惠三	Obuchi Keizo (1937-2000), Japanese politician, prime minister 1998-2000
小混混	hooligan; rogue; a good-for-nothing
小清新	hipster
小港	Xiaogang or Hsiaokang district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
小港區	Xiaogang or Hsiaokang district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
小湯山	Xiaotangshan town in Beijing municipality
小溪	brook; streamlet
小滴	droplet
小滿	Xiaoman or Lesser Full Grain, 8th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 21st May-5th June
小潮	neap tide (the smallest tide, when moon is at first or third quarter)
小濱鷸	(bird species of China) little stint (Calidris minuta)
小灰山椒鳥	(bird species of China) Swinhoe's minivet (Pericrocotus cantonensis)
小灶	mess hall for high-ranking cadres; (fig.) special treatment
小熊座	Ursa Minor (constellation)
小熊維尼	Winnie-the-Pooh (bear character in children's stories by A. A. Milne adapted by Disney)
小熊貓	lesser panda (Ailurus fulgens); red panda
小燕尾	(bird species of China) little forktail (Enicurus scouleri)
小牛	calf; (coll.) lower-priced model of Lamborghini
小牛肉	veal
小犬	puppy; my son (humble)
小犬座	Canis Minor (constellation)
小狗	pup; puppy
小獅座	Leo Minor (constellation)
小玩意	gadget; widget (small item of software)
小球	sports such as ping-pong and badminton that use small balls
小生產	small-scale production
小產	to miscarry; a miscarriage; an abortion
小田雞	(bird species of China) Baillon's crake (Zapornia pusilla)
小畑健	OBATA Takeshi, manga artist, illustrator of cult series Death Note 死亡筆記|死亡笔记[si3 wang2 bi3 ji4]
小番茄	cherry tomato
小病	minor illness; indisposition
小登	(slang) youngster; kid (humorous or self-deprecating neologism derived from 老登[lao3 deng1], established since c. 2022)
小發財	(coll.) (Tw) mini truck; Kei truck
小白	(slang) novice; greenhorn; (old) (slang) fool; idiot
小白兔	small white rabbit; (fig.) innocent and naive person
小白腰雨燕	(bird species of China) house swift (Apus nipalensis)
小白臉	attractive young man (usually derog.); pretty boy; gigolo
小白菜	bok choy (Brassica rapa subsp. chinensis)
小白額雁	(bird species of China) lesser white-fronted goose (Anser erythropus)
小白鼠	white mouse; lab mouse; lab rat; (fig.) human guinea pig
小百科全書	micropedia
小的	(coll.) young child; the little one(s) of the family
小皇帝	child emperor; (fig.) spoiled child; spoiled boy
小盡	lunar month of 29 days
小盤尾	(bird species of China) lesser racket-tailed drongo (Dicrurus remifer)
小看	to look down on; to underestimate
小眼角	outer corner of the eye
小眾	minority of the population; non-mainstream (activity, pursuit etc)
小睡	to nap; to doze
小瞧	(coll.) to look down on; to underestimate
小確幸	sth small that one can find pleasure in (e.g. a cold beer after a hard day or a serendipitous find in a second-hand store)
小祖宗	brat; little devil
小票	receipt; banknote of small denomination
小秘	(ironically) "secretary" (i.e. boss's mistress)
小筆電	mini laptop or notebook (computer); netbook
小算盤	lit. small abacus; fig. selfish calculations; bean-counting
小管	young squid (Tw)
小節	a minor matter; trivia; bar (music)
小節線	(music) bar line
小範圍	small-scale; local; to a limited extent
小篆	the small or lesser seal, the form of Chinese character standardized by the Qin dynasty
小籠包	steamed dumpling
小籠湯包	steamed soup dumpling
小米	Xiaomi, Chinese electronics company founded in 2010
小米椒	same as 朝天椒[chao2 tian1 jiao1]
小米辣	xiaomila, a hot chili pepper cultivar (Capsicum frutescens)
小粉	starch
小粉紅	young Chinese cyber-nationalists
小精靈	elf
小紅帽	Little Red Riding Hood
小紅書	REDnote (Chinese social networking platform)
小紅莓	cranberry
小紅蘿蔔	small red radish
小組	group
小組委員會	subcommittee
小組賽	(sports) group stage; group-stage match
小結	summary; short; brief
小絨鴨	(bird species of China) Steller's eider (Polysticta stelleri)
小綠人	(Tw) animated green pedestrian crossing signal figure
小編	social-media editor; page admin; creator of online content (often used by the writer as a self-referential persona)
小羊	lamb
小羊駝	(zoology) vicuña
小美洲鴕	(ornithology) lesser rhea; Darwin's rhea (Rhea pennata)
小羚羊	gazelle
小老婆	concubine; mistress; (dialect) woman
小老鼠	@; at symbol
小考	quiz
小聰明	clever-clever; clever in trivial matters; sharp but petty-minded
小聲	in a low voice; (speak) in whispers
小肚雞腸	lit. small belly, chicken's gut (idiom); narrow-minded; petty
小胖爪	(coll.) hand
小腦	cerebellum (part of the brain)
小腳	bound feet (traditional)
小腸	small intestine
小腹	underbelly; lower abdomen
小腿	lower leg (from knee to ankle); shank
小腿肚	calf (of the leg)
小舅子	(coll.) wife's younger brother
小舌	uvula
小船	boat
小花	(coll.) popular young actress
小花遠志	small-flowered milkwort (Polygala arvensis Willd. or P. telephioides), with roots used in Chinese medicine
小茴香	fennel; fennel seed
小菜	appetizer; small side dish; easy job
小菜一碟	a small appetizer; a piece of cake; very easy (idiom)
小葦鳽	(bird species of China) little bittern (Ixobrychus minutus)
小葵花鳳頭鸚鵡	(bird species of China) yellow-crested cockatoo (Cacatua sulphurea)
小蔥	green onion; spring onion
小薰	Xiao Xun (1989-), Taiwan actress
小蘇打	baking soda; sodium bicarbonate; Taiwan pr. [xiao3su1da3]
小蘿蔔頭	(coll.) kid; little tyke
小號	trumpet; small size (clothes etc); (coll.) a number one; a piss
小蜜	(derog.) girlfriend of a married man
小蜜蜂	honeybee; (fig.) industrious person (esp. one who shuttles back and forth)
小蝗鶯	(bird species of China) Pallas's grasshopper warbler (Helopsaltes certhiola)
小蝦	shrimp
小蝦米	shrimp; fig. small fry; minor player
小蠹	bark beetle (zoology)
小蠻腰	slim feminine waist; willow waist (from the name of a Tang dynasty woman Xiao Man, famed for her slender waist)
小行星	asteroid; minor planet
小行星帶	asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter
小衝突	skirmish; clash; dispute
小袋	pouch
小袋鼠	wallaby; pademelon
小裡小氣	stingy; petty
小褂	close-fitting (Chinese-style) upper garment
小視	to belittle; to look down upon; to despise
小覷	to despise; to have contempt for
小解	to urinate; to empty one's bladder
小計	subtotal
小試牛刀	to give a small demonstration of one's impressive skills (idiom)
小說	novel; fiction
小說家	School of Minor-talks, one of the Hundred Schools of Thought 諸子百家|诸子百家[zhu1 zi3 bai3 jia1] during the Warring States Period (475-221 BC)
小調	xiaodiao, a Chinese folk song genre; (music) minor key
小謊	fib
小豆蔻	Indian cardamom (Amomum cardamomum)
小貓	kitten
小貝	"Becks", nickname of British footballer David Beckham (see 貝克漢姆|贝克汉姆[Bei4 ke4 han4 mu3])
小貨車	small truck; light truck
小販	peddler; hawker
小費	tip; gratuity
小資	petit bourgeois; yuppie; abbr. of 小資產階級|小资产阶级
小資產階級	petty bourgeois
小賣部	kiosk; snack counter
小赤壁	Little Red Cliff, nickname of Bitan 碧潭[Bi4 tan2], Xindian, Taibei county, Taiwan
小跑	to trot; to jog
小路	minor road; lane; pathway; trail
小車	small model car; mini-car; small horse-cart
小軍艦鳥	(bird species of China) great frigatebird (Fregata minor)
小輩	the younger generation
小輩子	(Sichuan dialect) member of the younger generation
小輪車	BMX (bike); cycling BMX (sport)
小轉	to turn right (Shanghainese)
小轎車	(automobile) sedan; car
小辮	pigtail
小辮子	pigtail
小遊	outing; short trip
小過	little mistake; minor offense; slightly too much
小道	bypath; trail; bribery as a means of achieving a goal
小道具	(theater) hand prop (wine glass, pistol etc)
小道新聞	news from the grapevine
小道消息	hearsay; gossip
小酌	to have a few (alcoholic) drinks (often implying a small party)
小酒館	bistro
小野	Ono (Japanese surname and place name)
小野不由美	Ono Fuyumi (1960-), Japanese novelist
小量	a small quantity
小金庫	supplementary cash reserve; private fund; private hoard
小金縣	Xiaojin, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
小鋼珠	pachinko
小鋼砲	(coll.) piece of light artillery such as a mortar
小錢	a small amount of money
小鎮	small town; village
小鏟子	trowel
小開	(dialect) boss's son; rich man's son; young master
小除夕	the day before New Year's Eve
小隱隱於林，大隱隱於市	an ordinary hermit lives in the seclusion of the woods; the true recluse chooses the city (idiom)
小隱隱於野，大隱隱於市	an ordinary hermit lives in the seclusion of the wild; the true recluse chooses the city (idiom)
小雁塔	Small Wild Goose Pagoda in Xi'an
小雅	one of the three main divisions of the Book of Songs 詩經|诗经
小集團	faction; clique
小雞	chick
小雞雞	penis (child's word)
小雨	light rain; drizzle
小雨傘	(slang) condom
小雪	Xiaoxue or Lesser Snow, 20th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 22nd November-6th December
小雲雀	(bird species of China) oriental skylark (Alauda gulgula)
小電影	(slang) adult movie; pornographic film
小電驢	(coll.) electric scooter; electric moped; (dialect) scooter
小靈通	Personal Handy-phone System (PHS), mobile network system operating in China 1998-2013, branded "Little Smart"
小青年	young person; youngster
小青腳鷸	(bird species of China) Nordmann's greenshank (Tringa guttifer)
小韻	homophone group (group of homophone characters, in a rhyme book)
小項	small item; event (of program)
小頭	the smaller part or share of sth
小題大做	to make a big fuss over a minor issue (idiom)
小額融資	microfinance
小顎	mandible (lower jaw)
小食	snack; nibbles
小食中心	(Malaysia) food court
小飯桌	dining room for young schoolchildren unable to go home for lunch
小飯館	tearoom; canteen; cafeteria
小馬	colt; pony
小馬座	Equuleus (constellation)
小髒鬼	dirty little devil (affectionate, of child)
小鬆糕	muffin
小鬟	(historical) chignon worn by a young girl
小鬼	little demon (term of endearment for a child); mischievous child; imp
小鮮肉	(coll.) teen idol (male)
小鱗胸鷦鶥	(bird species of China) pygmy cupwing; pygmy wren-babbler (Pnoepyga pusilla)
小鳥	small bird; young bird (hatchling, nestling, fledgling, chick)
小鳥依人	lit. like a little bird relying on people (idiom)
小鳥球	(golf) birdie
小鳥胃	(fig.) small appetite; sb with a small appetite
小鳳頭燕鷗	(bird species of China) lesser crested tern (Thalasseus bengalensis)
小鴇	(bird species of China) little bustard (Tetrax tetrax)
小鴉鵑	(bird species of China) lesser coucal (Centropus bengalensis)
小鵐	(bird species of China) little bunting (Emberiza pusilla)
小鵑鳩	(bird species of China) little cuckoo-dove (Macropygia ruficeps)
小鵝	gosling
小鷗	(bird species of China) little gull (Hydrocoloeus minutus)
小鷹號	Kitty Hawk (US aircraft carrier)
小鷿鷈	(bird species of China) little grebe (Tachybaptus ruficollis)
小鹿亂撞	fig. restless, because of fear or strong emotions
小麥	wheat
小麥胚芽	wheat germ
小麵包	bread roll; bun
小黃	(Tw) (coll.) taxicab
小黃瓜	gherkin
小黃腳鷸	(bird species of China) lesser yellowlegs (Tringa flavipes)
小黃車	yellow bicycle (nickname for bicycles provided by the Ofo bike-sharing company, active 2014–2020)
小黑領噪鶥	(bird species of China) lesser necklaced laughingthrush (Garrulax monileger)
小鼓	snare drum
小鼠	mouse
小龍	snake (as one of the 12 Chinese zodiac animals 生肖[sheng1 xiao4])
小龍蝦	crayfish; (esp.) red swamp crayfish 克氏原螯蝦|克氏原螯虾[Ke4 shi4 yuan2 ao2 xia1]
小𥻗子	gruel made from maize ground finer than 大𥻗子[da4 cha2 zi3]
尐	(literary) few; a couple of
少	few; less; to lack
少不了	cannot do without; to be unavoidable; are bound to be many
少不得	cannot be avoided; cannot do without
少不更事	(idiom) young and inexperienced; wet behind the ears
少之又少	very few; very little
少來	refrain (from doing sth); (coll.) Come on!; Give me a break!
少先隊	Young Pioneers of China, abbr. for 少年先鋒隊|少年先锋队[Shao4 nian2 Xian1 feng1 dui4]
少兒	child
少兒不宜	not suitable for children
少刻	a short while; soon
少塊肉	(coll.) (usually used in the negative) (can't) hurt (to do sth)
少壯	young and strong; in the prime of youth
少壯不努力，老大徒傷悲	if you are lazy in your prime, you'll be sorry in your old age
少壯派	young guard; young and vigorous group with new ideas; new wave
少女	girl; young lady
少女峰	Jungfrau, peak in Switzerland
少奶奶	young lady of the house; wife of the young master
少婦	young married woman
少子化	declining birthrate (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 少子化 "shoushika")
少安毋躁	keep calm, don't get excited; don't be impatient
少將	major general; rear admiral; air vice marshal
少尉	second lieutenant (army rank)
少年	early youth; youngster; (literary) youth; young man
少年之家	children's center; children's club
少年人	(Tw) young people; youngster
少年先鋒隊	Young Pioneers of China (primary school league, a preparation for Communist Youth League)
少年夫妻老來伴	husband and wife in youth, companions in old age
少年宮	Children's Palace, institution where children can take part in various extracurricular activities
少年犯	young criminal; juvenile delinquent
少年老成	accomplished though young; lacking youthful vigor
少府	minister in charge of the palace treasury in imperial China
少放	to add less (of a spice etc)
少數	small number; few; minority
少數族裔	ethnic minority
少數民族	ethnic minority
少數民族鄉	ethnic township (formal village level subdivision of PRC county)
少有	rare; infrequent
少東	boss's son; young master; young boss
少東家	boss's son
少林	the Shaolin monastery and martial arts school
少林寺	Shaolin Temple, Buddhist monastery famous for its kung fu monks
少校	junior ranking officer in Chinese army; major; lieutenant commander
少根筋	(coll.) dim-witted; foolish; absent-minded
少爺	son of the boss; young master of the house; your son (honorific)
少男	young, unmarried male; young guy
少男少女	boys and girls; teenagers
少白頭	to be prematurely gray; young person with graying hair
少管閒事	Mind your own business!; Don't interfere!
少艾	young and pretty; pretty girl
少見	rare; seldom seen; (formal) it's a rare pleasure to see you
少見多怪	(lit.) a person who has seen little of the world will be astonished by certain things (idiom)
少許	a little; a few
少說為佳	Few words are best.; Brevity is the soul of wit.
少選	(literary) a little while
少部分	a small proportion of; Taiwan pr. [shao3bu4fen4]
少量	a smidgen; a little bit; a few
少間	(literary) after a short while; shortly
少陽病	name of disease in TCM
少陽經	lesser yang gallbladder meridian of the leg (one of the 12 principal meridians of TCM)
少頃	in a short while; presently
尕	little (dialect)
尖	pointed; tapering; sharp; (of a sound) shrill; piercing
尖刀	dagger
尖利	sharp; keen; cutting
尖刻	caustic; biting; piquant
尖厲	shrill (voice)
尖叫	to screech; to shriek
尖叫雞	squeaky rubber chicken
尖吻鱸	barramundi or Asian sea bass (Lates calcarifer)
尖嘴魚	Indo-Pacific wrasse (Gomphosus varius)
尖塔	spire; minaret
尖子	best of its kind; cream of the crop
尖子生	top student
尖尖	sharp; pointed
尖尾濱鷸	(bird species of China) sharp-tailed sandpiper (Calidris acuminata)
尖山區	Jianshan, a district of Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
尖峰	sharp peak (landform); (fig.) peak; spike
尖扎縣	Jainca, a county in Huangnan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 黃南藏族自治州|黄南藏族自治州[Huang2 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
尖括號	angle brackets < >
尖新	fresh; new and pointed
尖椒	chili pepper
尖沙咀	Tsim Sha Tsui, urbanized area in Hong Kong
尖牙	canine tooth; fang; tusk
尖窄	pointy; tapered
尖端	sharp pointed end; the tip; the cusp
尖管麵	penne pasta
尖細	(of an object) tapered; (of a voice) high-pitched
尖聲啼哭	squeal
尖草坪區	Jiancaoping, a district of Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
尖酸	harsh; scathing; acid (remarks)
尖酸刻薄	sharp and unkind (words)
尖銳	sharp; intense; penetrating
尖銳化	to intensify; to become acute; to come to a head
尖銳批評	sharp criticism
尖銳濕疣	genital wart; condyloma acuminatum
尖閣列島	Senkaku Islands (Japanese name for the Diaoyu Islands 釣魚島|钓鱼岛[Diao4 yu2 Dao3]), also known as the Pinnacle Islands
尖頂	pointed object; cusp; pinnacle
尖頭	pointed end; tip; (medicine) oxycephaly
尖頭鱥	Chinese minnow (Phoxinus oxycephalus)
尙	yet; to value; to esteem
尚	still; yet; to value
尚且	(not) even; yet; still
尚可	not bad; satisfactory
尚存	still remains; still exists; still has
尚志市	Shangzhi, a county-level city in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
尚慕傑	James Sasser (1936-), US Ambassador to China 1995-1999
尚方劍	imperial sword (giving bearer arbitrary powers)
尚方寶劍	imperial sword (giving bearer arbitrary powers)
尚書	same as 書經|书经[Shu1 jing1] Book of History
尚書經	Book of History
尚書郎	ancient official title
尚未	not yet; still not
尚未解決	unsolved; as yet unsettled
尚武	to promote a martial spirit; to revere military skills; warlike
尚比亞	Zambia (Tw)
尚無	not yet; not so far
尚義縣	Shangyi, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
尚饗	I beg you to partake of this sacrifice (used at the end of an elegiac address)
尜	toy formed of a spindle with two sharp ends
尜尜	toy formed of a spindle with two sharp ends
尢	lame
尤	outstanding; particularly, especially; a fault
尤克里里	ukulele (loanword)
尤其	especially; particularly
尤其是	especially; most of all; above all
尤利婭·季莫申科	Yulia Tymoshenko (1960-), Ukrainian politician
尤利西斯	Ulysses (novel)
尤加利	eucalyptus (loanword)
尤卡坦	Yucatan (Mexican province)
尤卡坦半島	Yucatan Peninsula (Mexico)
尤坎	Rjukan (city in Norway)
尤德	Sir Edward Youde (1924-1986), British diplomat, ambassador to Beijing 1974-1978, governor of Hong Kong 1982-1986
尤指	especially; particularly
尤文圖斯	Juventus, Italian football team
尤溪縣	Youxi, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
尤為	especially
尤爾欽科	Yurchenko (name); Natalia Yurchenko (1965-), Russian gymnast
尤物	rarity; rare object; rare person
尤詬	shame; disgrace
尤里斯·伊文思	Joris Ivens (1898-1989), Dutch documentary filmmaker and committed communist
尤金	(name) Eugene
尥	to give a backward kick (e.g. of a horse)
尥蹶子	(of mules, horses etc) to kick backward; to kick with the hind legs
尨	shaggy dog; striped
尪	feeble; lame
尬	(bound form) embarrassing; awkward
尬意	(Tw) to like; to prefer
尬聊	(slang) awkward conversation; to have a cringeworthy conversation
尬舞	(slang) to battle each other in street dancing (derived from Taiwanese 較, which sounds similar to Mandarin 尬[ga4])
尬電	(Tw) (Internet slang) (loanword) goddamn
尰	swell
就	(after a suppositional clause) in that case; then
就事論事	to discuss sth on its own merits; to judge the matter as it stands
就任	to take office; to assume a post
就伴	to act as companion
就便	at one's convenience; while one is at it
就口	(of a bowl, a cup etc) to be brought up to one's mouth
就口杯蓋	cup lid with a sipping spout
就地	locally; on the spot
就地取材	to draw on local resources; using materials at hand
就地正法	to execute on the spot (idiom); summary execution
就學	to attend school
就寢	to go to sleep; to go to bed (literary)
就座	to take a seat
就擒	to be taken prisoner
就是	exactly; precisely; only; simply; just
就是說	in other words; that is
就晚了	then it's too late (colloquial)
就服	(Tw) employment service (abbr. for 就業服務|就业服务[jiu4 ye4 fu2 wu4])
就木	to be placed in a coffin; (fig.) to die
就業	to get a job; employment
就業安定費	Employment Stability Fee (Taiwan), a minimum monthly fee for employing foreign workers
就業服務	employment service; job placement service; jobseeker assistance
就業機會	employment opportunity; job opening
就業率	employment rate
就正	(literary and deferential) to solicit comments (on one's writing)
就此	at this point; thus; from then on
就算	(coll.) even if
就範	to submit; to give in
就緒	to be ready; to be in order
就義	to be killed for a righteous cause; to die a martyr
就職	to take office; to assume a post
就職典禮	inauguration
就職演說	inaugural speech
就職演講	inaugural lecture
就著	(eat sth) with (sth else); taking advantage of; using
就裡	inside story
就要	will; shall; to be going to
就診	to see a doctor; to seek medical advice
就讀	to go to school
就近	nearby; in a close neighborhood
就道	to set off; to take to the road
就醫	to receive medical treatment
就餐	to dine; to have one's meal
尷	used in 尷尬|尴尬[gan1 ga4]
尷尬	awkward; embarrassed
尸	(literary) person representing the deceased (during burial ceremonies)
尸位素餐	to hold a sinecure (idiom)
尸祿	to hold a sinecure
尸羅	sila (Buddhism)
尹	(literary) to administer; to govern
尹潽善	Yun Poseon (1897-1990), South Korean Democratic party politician, mayor of Seoul from 1948, president 1960-1962
尺	one of the characters used to represent a musical note in gongche notation, 工尺譜|工尺谱[gong1 che3 pu3]
尺八	shakuhachi (Japanese bamboo flute)
尺子	ruler (measuring instrument)
尺寸	size; dimensions; measurements (esp. of clothes); (coll.) propriety
尺度	scale; yardstick
尺有所短，寸有所長	lit. for some things a foot may be too short, and for the other an inch will suffice (proverb)
尺牘	(literary) a one-foot-long strip of wood or bamboo, used for writing in ancient times; (as a metonym) letter; written message
尺短寸長	abbr. for 尺有所短，寸有所長|尺有所短，寸有所长[chi3 you3 suo3 duan3 , cun4 you3 suo3 chang2]
尺碼	size; fitting (of apparel)
尺素	(literary) a one-foot-long piece of white silk, used for writing in ancient times; (as a metonym) letter; written message
尺蠖	looper caterpillar, larva of moth in family Geometridae; inch worm
尺蠖蛾	moth in family Geometridae
尺規	ruler and compass (in geometric constructions)
尺規作圖	ruler and compass construction (geometry)
尺骨	ulna (anatomy); bone of the forearm
尻	(literary) buttocks; rump; coccyx; sacrum
尻門子	anus (rural coll.)
尻骨	coccyx; tailbone at end of spine
尼	Buddhist nun; (often used in phonetic spellings)
尼亞加拉瀑布	Niagara Falls
尼亞美	Niamey, capital of Niger
尼人	Neanderthal (abbr. for 尼安德特人[Ni2 an1 de2 te4 ren2])
尼克	Nick (name)
尼克松	Richard Nixon (1913–1994), US president 1969–1974
尼克森	Nixon (name); Richard M Nixon (1913-1994), US president 1969-1974
尼加拉瀑布	Niagara Falls (Tw)
尼加拉瓜	Nicaragua
尼勒克縣	Nilka, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
尼厄麗德	Nereids (Greek sea nymphs, fifty daughters of Nereus and Doris)
尼古丁	(loanword) nicotine
尼古西亞	Nicosia, capital of Cyprus (Tw)
尼哥	(loanword) nigger
尼哥底母	Nicodemus, prominent Jew of the time of Christ, mentioned in the Gospel of John
尼姆	Nîmes (city in France)
尼姑	Buddhist nun
尼安德塔人	Neanderthal man
尼安德特人	Neanderthal man
尼布楚條約	Treaty of Nerchinsk (1689) between Qing China and Russia
尼布甲尼撒	Nebuchadnezzar
尼希米記	Book of Nehemiah
尼康	Nikon corporation
尼德蘭	the Netherlands
尼散月	Nisan, the first month of the ecclesiastical year in the Jewish calendar
尼斯	Nice (city in France)
尼斯湖水怪	Loch Ness Monster
尼日	Niger (Tw)
尼日利亞	Nigeria
尼日爾	Niger (country in West Africa); Niger River, West Africa
尼日爾河	Niger River of West Africa
尼木縣	Nyêmo, a county in Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
尼格羅	negro (loanword)
尼桑	Nissan, Japanese car make
尼泊爾	Nepal
尼泊爾王國	Kingdom of Nepal
尼泊爾鷦鶥	(bird species of China) Nepal cupwing; immaculate cupwing; Nepal wren-babbler (Pnoepyga immaculata)
尼爾森	Nielsen or Nelson (name)
尼爾遜	Nelson or Nillson (name)
尼特	nit (symbol: nt), unit of luminance (loanword)
尼特族	(Tw) (neologism c. 2007) young person who is not studying, working or being trained for work (loanword from NEET: not in education, employment or training)
尼瑪	(Internet slang) alternative for 你媽|你妈[ni3 ma1]
尼瑪縣	Nyima, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
尼科西亞	Nicosia, capital of Cyprus
尼米茲	Chester William Nimitz (1885-1966), US admiral
尼米茲號	Nimitz class, US nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, 8 in commission since 1975
尼羅河	the Nile (river in northeastern Africa)
尼蘇	Nisu (language)
尼赫魯	Jawaharlal Nehru (1889-1964), Indian politician, first prime minister 1947-1964
尼采	Friedrich Nietzsche (1846–1900), German philosopher
尼雅	Niya, ancient kingdom near Khotan in Xinjiang, 1st century BC-4th century AD
尼雅河	Niya River in southern Xinjiang
尼龍	(loanword) nylon
尼龍搭釦	nylon buckle; velcro
尾	horse's tail; pointed posterior section of a locust etc
尾大不掉	large tail obstructs action (idiom); bottom heavy
尾子	tail; end; small change
尾巴	tail; colloquial pr. [yi3 ba5]
尾張國	Owari or Owari-no-kuni, Japanese fiefdom during 11th-15th century, current Aichi prefecture around Nagoya
尾擊	attack from the rear
尾數	remainder (after rounding a number)
尾期	final period; the end (of a term); the close
尾梢	the tip; the end; the very end
尾椎	coccyx; tailbone
尾欠	balance due; small balance still to pay; final remaining debt
尾款	balance (money remaining due)
尾氣	exhaust; emissions
尾水	tailwater; outflow (from mill or power plant)
尾水渠道	outflow channel
尾流	wake (trailing behind a ship, airplane etc); slipstream
尾燈	tail light (on vehicle)
尾牙	a year-end dinner for employees
尾班	last service (of train, bus, boat etc)
尾生	Wei Sheng (legendary character who waited for his love under a bridge until he was drowned in the surging waters)
尾礦	mining waste; waste remaining after processing ore; tailings
尾礦庫	slag heap; dump of mining waste
尾綴	(lit.) to follow sb; (linguistics) suffix; ending
尾羽	tail feathers
尾羽龍	caudipteryx (a feathered dinosaur)
尾翼	empennage (of an aircraft); fletching (of an arrow); fins (of a missile, rocket etc); rear spoiler (of a car)
尾聲	coda; epilogue; end
尾號	last digit (or last few digits) of a phone number, license plate number etc
尾蚴	tailed larva
尾註	endnote
尾部	back part; rear section; tail section
尾閭骨	coccyx; tailbone
尾隨	to tail behind; to tag along; to follow on the heels of
尾音	final sound of a syllable; rhyme (e.g. in European languages)
尾韻	rhyme
尾頁	last page
尾骨	coccyx; tailbone
尾鰭	tail or caudal fin
尿	to urinate; urine
尿不濕	(coll.) disposable diaper
尿嘧啶	uracil nucleotide (U, pairs with adenine A 腺嘌呤 in RNA)
尿失禁	urinary incontinence
尿尿	to pee
尿布	diaper
尿布疹	diaper rash
尿床	to wet the bed
尿急	urinary urgency
尿意	an urge to urinate
尿樣	urine sample
尿檢	urine test; urinalysis; to do a urine test
尿毒症	(medicine) uremia
尿泡	(dialect) bladder
尿液	urine
尿炕	to wet the bed
尿片	diaper
尿盆	chamber pot
尿素	carbamide; urea (NH2)2CO
尿脬	bladder
尿褲子	to wet one's pants
尿遁	(slang) pretext of needing to urinate (used to slip away to avoid having to do sth)
尿道	urethra; urinary tract
尿酸	uric acid
尿點	the boring part of something (film, show, etc.) where a bathroom break can be taken
局	office; situation; classifier for games: match, set, round etc
局中人	participant; protagonist; a player (in this affair)
局促一隅	to be cramped in a corner (idiom)
局促不安	ill at ease; uncomfortable
局勢	situation; state (of affairs)
局地	local; locally
局域網	local area network (LAN)
局外	outside (a group etc); not connected (with an event etc); external
局外中立	neutralism
局子	police station
局灶性	(medicine) focal; localized
局級	(administrative) bureau-level
局部	part; local
局部作用域	(computing) local scope
局部性	local
局部麻醉	local anesthesia
局部麻醉劑	local anesthetic
局長	bureau chief
局限	to limit; to confine; to restrict sth within set boundaries
局限性	limitations; (medicine) localized
局限於	to be limited to
局面	aspect; phase; situation
局麻	local anesthesia (abbr. for 局部麻醉[ju2 bu4 ma2 zui4])
局麻藥	local anesthetic
屁	fart; flatulence; nonsense
屁事	(vulgar) trifling matter; mere trifle; goddamn thing
屁墩兒	(dialect) a fall on the buttocks
屁屁	(child's term) buttocks; bottom
屁民	(slang) shitizen; commoner; hoi polloi
屁滾尿流	to piss one's pants in terror (idiom); scared witless
屁眼	anus
屁精	(slang) gay; sissy; poof
屁股	buttocks; bottom; butt
屁股決定腦袋	lit. the butt governs the head (idiom)
屁股眼	anus
屁股蛋	butt cheek; rump
屁股蹲兒	(dialect) a fall on the buttocks; pratfall
屁話	bullshit; nonsense
屁輕	very light
屁顛屁顛	lit. jolting buttocks; (colloquial intensifier) groveling; eager
屄	cunt (vulgar)
屄屄	(vulgar) to rattle on; to talk drivel
屄樣兒	(vulgar, offensive) a person's repulsive appearance
居	(literary) to reside; to live; (bound form) to occupy (a position)
居中	to be between two parties (as in mediation)
居中對齊	centered alignment (typography)
居人	inhabitant
居位	to occupy a high position (in administration)
居住	to reside; to dwell; to live in a place
居住地	current address; place of residence
居住於	to inhabit
居住者	inhabitant
居住證	residence permit
居功	to claim credit for oneself
居功自傲	satisfied with one's accomplishment and arrogant as a result (idiom); resting on one's laurels and despising others
居喪	to observe the ritual mourning
居多	to be in the majority
居奇	to hoard; to speculate; profiteering
居委會	neighbourhood committee
居孀	to remain widowed (formal)
居宅	dwelling
居安思危	to think of danger in times of safety
居官	to secure a position; to take an official appointment
居室	room; apartment
居家	to live at home; to stay at home; home (schooling etc)
居庸關	Juyongguan, frontier fortress on Great Wall north of Beijing, in Changping district 昌平區|昌平区[Chang1 ping2 qu1]
居心	to harbor (evil) intentions; to be bent on; a tranquil heart or mind
居心不良	to harbor evil intentions (idiom)
居心何在	What's (he) up to?; What's the motive behind all this?
居心叵測	harboring unfathomable motives (idiom)
居心險惡	to have sinister motives
居所	residence
居於	to occupy (a position)
居正	(literary) to follow the right path
居民	resident; inhabitant
居民區	residential area; neighborhood
居民樓	apartment building; residential tower
居民消費價格指數	consumer price index CPI
居民點	residential area
居無定所	to be without a fixed residence (idiom)
居然	unexpectedly; to one's surprise; go so far as to
居留	to reside
居留權	right of abode (law)
居留證	residence permit
居第	housing; high-class residence
居經	(TCM) menstruation that comes only once every three months
居處	dwelling place; home
居酒屋	izakaya (a kind of traditional Japanese pub)
居里	curie (Ci) (loanword)
居里夫人	Maria Skłodowska-Curie or Marie Curie (1867–1934), Nobel laureate in both physics (1903) and chemistry (1911)
居間	positioned between (two parties); to mediate between
居首	leading; in first place; top of the list
居高不下	(of prices, rates etc) to remain high
居高臨下	lit. to be in a high location, overlooking the scene below (idiom)
居魯士	Cyrus (name)
居魯士大帝	Cyrus the Great (ca. 600-530 BC), the founder of the Persian Empire and the conqueror of Babylon
屆	to arrive at (place or time); period; to become due
屆時	when the time comes; at the scheduled time
屆滿	(of a term of office) to expire
屇	cave; hole
屈	bent; to feel wronged
屈倫博赫	Culemborg, city in the Netherlands
屈光度	diopter
屈公病	chikungunya fever (Tw)
屈原	Qu Yuan (340-278 BC), famous Warring States statesman and poet, author of Sorrow at Parting 離騷|离骚 Lisao in Songs of Chu 楚辭|楚辞
屈原祠	Qu Yuan memorial temple on the Miluo river 汨羅江|汨罗江 at Yueyang 岳陽市|岳阳市, Hunan
屈原紀念館	Qu Yuan Memorial Hall in Zigui county 秭歸縣|秭归县[Zi3 gui1 Xian4], Hubei, built in 1982 and a major tourist attraction since then
屈尊	to condescend; to deign
屈尊俯就	to condescend; condescending; patronizing
屈從	to submit; to yield; to bow to sb's will
屈戌兒	staple (used with a hasp)
屈才	to waste talent
屈打成招	to obtain confessions under torture
屈折語	to inflect (in grammar); to decline; to conjugate
屈指	to count on one's fingers
屈指一算	to count on one's fingers
屈指可數	(lit.) can be counted on one's fingers (idiom); (fig.) very few
屈撓	to surrender; to yield; to flex
屈曲	crooked
屈服	to surrender; to succumb; to yield
屈肌	flexor (anatomy)
屈膝禮	curtsy
屈辱	to humiliate; humiliating
屈體	to bend at the waist; (fig.) to bow to; (diving) pike position
屋	(bound form) house; (bound form) room
屋企	(Cantonese) home; family (Mandarin equivalent: 家[jia1])
屋外	outdoors; outside
屋子	house; room
屋宇	(literary) house; building
屋架	a building; the frame of a building; roof beam
屋漏偏逢連夜雨	when it rains, it pours (idiom)
屋漏更遭連夜雨	when it rains, it pours (idiom)
屋簷	eaves; roof (i.e. home)
屋脊	roof ridge
屋面	roof
屋面瓦	room tiles
屋頂	roof
屌	penis; (slang) cool or extraordinary; (Cantonese) to fuck
屌毛	(vulgar) male pubic hair; (vulgar) asshole; jerk; dickhead
屌爆	(slang) awesome
屌絲	loser (Internet slang)
屍	(bound form) corpse
屍僵	rigor mortis
屍塊	body parts (of a mutilated corpse)
屍山血海	(lit.) mountains of corpses and oceans of blood (idiom)
屍布	pall (casket covering)
屍斑	livor mortis
屍橫遍野	(idiom) corpses are strewn across the field (typically after a battle)
屍檢	autopsy
屍臭	odor of a dead body
屍身	corpse; dead body
屍首	dead body; corpse (Note: In expressions like 屍首分離|尸首分离[shi1 shou5 fen1 li2] or 屍首異處|尸首异处[shi1 shou5 yi4 chu4], decapitation is implied.)
屍骨	skeleton of the dead
屍骸	corpse; skeleton
屍體	corpse; dead body
屍體剖檢	autopsy
屍體袋	body bag
屍體解剖	autopsy; postmortem
屎	feces; excrement; a stool
屎意	an urge to defecate
屎蚵螂	dung beetle
屏	to get rid of; to put aside; to reject
屏保	screensaver; abbr. for 屏幕保護程序|屏幕保护程序[ping2 mu4 bao3 hu4 cheng2 xu4]
屏南縣	Pingnan, a county in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
屏占比	screen-to-body ratio (of a smartphone etc)
屏山縣	Pingshan, a county in Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
屏幕	screen (TV, computer or movie)
屏幕保護程序	screensaver
屏息	hold one's breath
屏攝	to photograph or film a screen (esp. a movie screen during a screening)
屏東	Pingtung city, county and military airbase in south Taiwan
屏東市	Pingtung City in south Taiwan
屏東縣	Pingtung County in south Taiwan
屏條	set of (usually four) hanging scrolls
屏氣	to hold one's breath
屏營	with fear and trepidation
屏蔽	to screen; to block (sth or sb); to shield
屏蔽罐	cask
屏退	to send away; to dismiss (servants etc); to retire from public life
屏邊苗族自治縣	Pingbian Miao Autonomous County, in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
屏門	screen door
屏除	to get rid of; to dismiss; to brush aside
屏障	barrier
屏風	(furniture) screen
屐	clogs
屑	bits; fragments; crumbs
展	to spread out; to open up; to exhibit
展位	relative position of exhibition booth
展出	to put on display; to be on show; to exhibit
展列	to lay out one's products; to display
展品	exhibit; displayed item
展室	exhibition room
展寬	to widen
展布	to spread; distribution
展帆	to unfurl (a sail)
展平	to flatten out (paper, film, metal plates etc)
展弦比	(wing) aspect ratio (aerodynamics)
展播	to exhibit as broadcast; to show (on TV)
展會	exhibition event; expo; trade fair
展望	outlook; prospect; to look ahead
展期	to extend the period; to reschedule (a debt)
展櫃	display case
展玩	to view close up; to examine and admire
展現	to unfold before one's eyes; to emerge; to reveal; to display
展眉	to beam with joy; all smiles
展示	to reveal; to display; to show; to exhibit
展緩	to postpone; to extend
展翅	to spread wings
展翅高飛	to spread one's wings and soar (idiom)
展臺	display counter; stand; booth
展覽	to put on display; to exhibit; exhibition
展覽會	exhibition; show
展覽館	exhibition hall
展評	to display for evaluation; to exhibit and compare
展銷	to display and sell (e.g. at a fair); sales exhibition
展銷會	trade show; sales exhibition
展開	to unfold; to spread out; to open up; to launch; to carry out
展開圖	expanded view
展限	to extend a time limit
展陳	to exhibit; to display; exhibition; display
展露	to expose; to reveal
展館	exhibition hall; (expo) pavilion
屖	sharp
屘	the youngest
屙	(dialect) to excrete (urine or feces)
屙尿	to urinate
屙屎	to defecate
屜	drawer; tier; tray
屜子	drawer; stackable cooking vessel; woven mat on a bed frame or chair
屝	coarse; sandals
屠	to slaughter (animals for food); to massacre
屠伯	butcher; fig. brutal killer
屠刀	butcher's knife; abattoir hatchet
屠城	to massacre everyone in a captured city
屠場	slaughterhouse; abattoir
屠夫	butcher; fig. murderous dictator
屠妖節	Deepavali (Hindu festival)
屠宰	to slaughter; to butcher
屠宰場	slaughterhouse; abattoir
屠戮	slaughter; massacre
屠戶	butcher
屠格涅夫	Ivan Sergeevich Turgenev (1818-1883), Russian novelist
屠殺	to massacre; to slaughter
屠毒	poison; to murder by poison
屠毒筆墨	poisonous writing; disparaging writing; calumny
屢	time and again; repeatedly; frequently
屢出狂言	repeated gaffes
屢加	ply
屢勸不聽	(idiom) refusing to listen to advice or remonstrance; incorrigible
屢屢	again and again; repeatedly
屢戰屢敗	to suffer defeat in every battle (idiom)
屢敗屢戰	to keep on fighting despite continual setbacks (idiom)
屢教不改	lit. not to change, despite repeated admonition; incorrigible
屢次	repeatedly; time and again
屢禁不止	to continue despite repeated prohibition (idiom)
屢禁不絕	to continue despite repeated prohibition (idiom)
屢見不鮮	a common occurrence (idiom)
屢試不爽	well-tried; time-tested
屢遭	to suffer repeatedly
屣	slippers
層	to pile on top of one another; layer; stratum
層出不窮	more and more emerge; innumerable succession
層報	to report to higher authorities through layers of hierarchy
層壓	lamination
層壓式推銷	pyramid scheme
層子	stratum
層層	layer upon layer
層層傳達	to send down the line
層層加碼	to increase bit by bit; repeated increments
層巒	range upon range of mountains
層巒疊嶂	range upon range of mountains (idiom)
層巖	stratified rock; flagstone
層樓	multistoried building; tower; pagoda
層次	layer; level; gradation
層次分明	layered; structured; made up of distinct parts
層流	laminar flow
層狀	stratified; bedded (geology)
層理	stratification
層疊	layer upon layer; tiered
層積雲	stratocumulus cloud
層級	level; hierarchy
層見疊出	(idiom) to occur frequently; to occur repeatedly
層雲	stratus (cloud)
層面	aspect; facet; level (political, psychological, spiritual etc)
履	shoe; to tread on
履帶	caterpillar track (propulsion system used on bulldozers etc)
履新	(of an official) to take up a new post
履歷	background (academic and work); curriculum vitae; résumé
履歷片	curriculum vitae (CV)
履歷表	curriculum vitae (CV); resume
履約	to keep a promise; to honor an agreement
履約保證金	performance bond (international trade)
履職	to fulfill one's job or duty
履舄交錯	lit. shoes and slippers muddled together (idiom); fig. many guests come and go
履行	to fulfill (one's obligations); to carry out (a task)
履踐	to carry out (a task)
履險如夷	lit. to make one's way through a dangerous pass as if walking on level ground (idiom)
屧	wooden shoes
屨	sandals
屩	(old) hemp sandals; Taiwan pr. [jue2]
屪	penis
屬	to join together; to fix one's attention on; to concentrate on
屬下	subordinate; affiliated to; subsidiary
屬世	of this world
屬吏	(old) subordinate; underling
屬員	(old) subordinates (under sb's authority)
屬國	vassal state
屬地	dependency; possession; annexed territory
屬實	to turn out to be true; verified; true
屬性	attribute; property
屬意	to set one's heart on; to set one's choice on
屬文	to write prose
屬於	to belong to; to fall under (a category)
屬格	genitive case (in grammar)
屬相	colloquial term for 生肖[sheng1 xiao4] the animals associated with the years of a 12-year cycle
屬靈	spiritual
屬音	dominant (music)
屭	used in 贔屭|赑屃[bi4 xi4]
屮	plants sprouting
屯	to station (soldiers); to store up; village
屯區	Tun District – area of Taichung (in Taiwan) between the coastal (western) part of the city and the mountains to the east
屯墾	to garrison troops to open up land
屯子	village
屯戍	to garrison; to defend (a frontier); soldier garrisoned at a frontier
屯昌	Tunchang County, Hainan
屯昌縣	Tunchang County, Hainan
屯溪區	Tunxi, a district of Huangshan City 黃山市|黄山市[Huang2 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
屯特	Twente (region in the Netherlands)
屯特大學	University of Twente
屯留區	Tunliu, a district of Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
屯落	village
屯門	Tuen Mun district of New Territories, Hong Kong
屯駐	to station; to quarter; to garrison
山	mountain; hill (CL:座[zuo4])
山下	Yamashita (Japanese surname)
山不轉水轉	(lit.) if the mountain won't move, the river will go around it (idiom)
山不轉路轉	(lit.) if the mountain won't move, the road will go around it (idiom)
山丘	hill
山中無老虎，猴子稱大王	in the country of the blind the one-eyed man is king (idiom)
山中聖訓	the Sermon on the Mount
山丹	coral lily (Lilium pumilum)
山丹縣	Shandan, a county in Zhangye City 張掖市|张掖市[Zhang1 ye4 Shi4], Gansu
山亭區	Shanting, a district of Zaozhuang City 棗莊市|枣庄市[Zao3 zhuang1 Shi4], Shandong
山凹	col; valley
山勢	topography of a mountain; features of a mountain
山包	(dialect) hill
山區	mountain area
山南市	Lhoka, prefecture-level city in Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
山口	Yamaguchi (Japanese surname, prefecture, and city)
山口洋	Singkawang city (Kalimantan, Indonesia)
山嘴	mountain spur
山噪鶥	(bird species of China) plain laughingthrush (Pterorhinus davidi)
山地	mountainous region; hilly area; hilly country
山地同胞	(dated) Taiwanese indigenous peoples; Taiwanese aborigine
山地自行車	mountain bike
山地車	mountain bike
山坡	hillside
山埃	cyanide (loanword); same as 氰化
山城區	Shancheng, a district of Hebi City 鶴壁市|鹤壁市[He4 bi4 Shi4], Henan
山塢	nook; cove (in the hills)
山壑	gullies; valleys
山外有山，天外有天	(idiom) however good sth is, there is always sth better
山奈	(loanword) cyanide
山奈鉀	potassium cyanide KCN
山姆	(name) Sam
山姆大叔	Uncle Sam
山子	rock garden; rockery
山寨	fortified hill village; mountain stronghold (esp. of bandits)
山寨機	knockoff cell phone; counterfeit phone
山寨貨	a fake; imitation or counterfeit product
山岡	mound; small hill
山峰	(mountain) peak
山峽	gorge; canyon; mountain valley
山崎	Yamazaki or Yamasaki (Japanese surname)
山崖	cliff
山崩	landslide; landslip
山嵐	(literary) mountain mist
山嶺	mountain ridge
山嶽	mountain; hill; lofty mountain
山巒	mountain range; unbroken chain of peaks
山巒重疊	overlapping ranges of high mountains (idiom)
山巔	summit
山川	mountains and rivers; landscape
山形	Yamagata (prefecture and city in Japan)
山斑鳩	(bird species of China) oriental turtle dove (Streptopelia orientalis)
山斗	abbr. for 泰山北斗[Tai4 shan1 Bei3 dou3]
山旮旯	recess in mountains
山明水秀	lit. verdant hills and limpid water (idiom); fig. enchanting scenery
山本	Yamamoto (Japanese surname)
山本五十六	YAMAMOTO Isoroku (1884-1943), Japanese admiral
山本頭	(Tw) "Yamamoto haircut", similar to a butch cut, but with even length (no tapering on the sides and back), said to be named after Admiral Yamamoto 山本五十六[Shan1 ben3 Wu3 shi2 liu4]
山村	mountain village
山東半島	Shandong Peninsula
山東大學	Shandong University
山東省	Shandong Province, capital Jinan 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4] (short name 魯|鲁[Lu3])
山東科技大學	Shandong University of Science and Technology
山林	wooded mountain; mountain forest
山柰	Kaempferia galanga, one of four plants known as galangal
山核桃	hickory
山根	foot of a hill or mountain
山案座	Mensa (constellation)
山梁	mountain ridge
山梨	rowan or mountain-ash (genus Sorbus)
山梨酸鉀	potassium sorbate, E202 (a food preservative)
山梨醇	sorbitol C6H14O6 (sugar substitute and mild laxative)
山椒魚	Hynobius formosanus; Taiwan salamander
山楂	Chinese hawthorn (Crataegus pinnatifida)
山楂糕	haw jelly, a sweet jelly popular in northern China, made from Chinese hawthorn fruit
山欖科	Sapotaceae (botany)
山歌	folk song; mountain song
山毛櫸	beech
山水	water from a mountain; mountains and rivers; scenery
山水畫	landscape painting
山水詩	shanshui poetry, genre of Classical Chinese poetry
山河	mountains and rivers; the whole country
山泥傾瀉	a landslide
山洞	cavern; cave
山洪	deluge caused by torrential water flow off a mountain after heavy rain or snowmelt
山海	mountains and seas
山海經	Classic of Mountain and Sea, probably compiled c. 500 BC-200 BC, contains wide range of geography, mythology, witchcraft, popular customs etc
山海關	Shanhai Pass in Hebei, at the eastern terminus of the Ming dynasty Great Wall
山海關區	Shanhaiguan, a district of Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
山清水秀	lit. verdant hills and limpid water (idiom); fig. enchanting scenery
山溝	valley; gully; mountain region
山溝溝	(coll.) remote valley; backwoods
山澗	mountain stream
山澤	the countryside; wilderness areas
山火	wildfire; forest fire
山炮	mountain gun (portable artillery piece used in mountainous terrain)
山牆	gable
山獅	mountain lion
山珍海味	exotic delicacies; luxury foodstuff from distant locations
山珍海錯	rarities from the mountain and the sea (idiom); fig. a sumptuous spread of food delicacies
山瑞	wattle-necked soft-shelled turtle (Palea steindachneri)
山瑞鱉	wattle-necked soft-shelled turtle (Palea steindachneri)
山田	Yamada (Japanese surname)
山皇鳩	(bird species of China) mountain imperial pigeon (Ducula badia)
山盟海誓	to pledge undying love (idiom); oath of eternal love
山神	mountain god
山窪	mountain hollow; mountain depression
山窮水盡	mountain and river exhausted (idiom); at the end of the line
山竹	mangosteen
山精	mountain spirit; monster or creature said to inhabit mountains
山羊	goat; (gymnastics) small-sized vaulting horse
山羊座	(Tw, HK) see 摩羯座[Mo2 jie2 zuo4]
山羊絨	cashmere
山羊鬍子	goatee
山羌	(zoology) Reeves's muntjac (Muntiacus reevesi); Chinese muntjac
山胞	(dated) Taiwanese indigenous peoples; Taiwanese aborigine
山胡桃木	hickory
山脈	mountain range
山脊	mountain ridge
山腰	the mid-slope of a mountain
山腳	foot of a mountain
山芋	sweet potato
山茱萸	Japanese cornel (Cornus officinalis)
山茶	camellia
山茶花	camellia
山莊	manor house; villa; (used in hotel names)
山莓	raspberry
山萮菜	wasabi
山葵	wasabi
山藍仙鶲	(bird species of China) hill blue flycatcher (Cyornis whitei)
山藥	Chinese yam (Dioscorea polystachya); (dialect) sweet potato
山藥蛋	(dialect) potato; (dialect) rube; yokel
山蘇	bird's nest fern (Asplenium nidus)
山行	mountain hike
山西大學	Shanxi University
山西獸	Shansitherium fuguensis (early giraffe)
山西省	Shanxi Province, capital Taiyuan 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4] (short name 晉|晋[Jin4])
山谷	valley; ravine
山谷市	The Valley, capital of Anguilla (a British Overseas Territory in the Caribbean)
山貓	lynx; bobcat; leopard cat
山賊	brigand
山路	mountain road
山道年	santonin (loanword)
山達基	Scientology
山鄉	mountain area
山野	mountain and fields
山長水遠	(idiom) long and arduous journey
山門	monastery main gate (Buddhism); monastery
山阿	a nook in the mountains
山陬海澨	(idiom) remote and desolate area
山陰縣	Shanyin, a county in Shuozhou City 朔州市[Shuo4 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
山陽區	Shanyang, a district of Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
山陽縣	Shanyang, a county in Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
山隘	mountain pass
山雀	tit
山雉	pheasant
山雞	Reeves's pheasant (Syrmaticus reevesii); (dialect) pheasant
山難	mountain accident
山青水靈	scenic, with verdant hills and crystal-clear waters
山靛	(botany) the spurges, the mercuries (plants of genus Mercurialis)
山響	very loud; very noisy
山頂	hilltop
山頭	mountain top, esp. one occupied by a mountain stronghold
山頹木壞	lit. the mountains crumble and the trees lie ruined
山體	form of a mountain
山高水長	high as the mountain and long as the river (idiom); fig. noble and far-reaching
山高水險	lit. the mountains are high and the torrents swift
山高海深	high as the mountain and deep as the sea (idiom); fig. infinite bounty
山魈	mandrill (Mandrillus sphinx); legendary mountain spirit
山鶥	(bird species of China) Beijing babbler; Chinese hill warbler (Rhopophilus pekinensis)
山鶺鴒	(bird species of China) forest wagtail (Dendronanthus indicus)
山鷚	(bird species of China) upland pipit (Anthus sylvanus)
山鷦鶯	(bird species of China) striped prinia (Prinia striata)
山麓	foothills
山麻雀	(bird species of China) russet sparrow (Passer cinnamomeus)
屴	high mountain range
屹	high and steep
屹立	to tower; to stand straight (of person's bearing)
屺	(literary) a barren hill
屼	bare hill
屾	(literary) two mountains standing next to each other
岊	mountain peak
岌	lofty peak; perilous
岌岌可危	imminent danger (idiom); approaching a crisis
岌嶪	high and steep; towering; perilous
岍	name of a mountain
岐	surname Qi; also used in place names
岐山縣	Qishan, a county in Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
岐阜	Gifu (prefecture in Japan)
岑	surname Cen
岑彭	Cen Peng (died 35 AD), Chinese general
岑溪市	Cenxi, a county-level city in Wuzhou City 梧州市[Wu2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
岑鞏縣	Cengong, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
岒	character used in place names
岔	fork in road; bifurcation; branch in road, river, mountain range etc
岔口	junction; fork in road
岔子	branch road; setback; accident
岔流	branch stream
岔調	(of a voice) husky; hoarse; affected
岔路	fork in the road
岔道	side road; byway
岔開	to diverge; to branch off the road; to change (the subject)
岜	stony hill; rocky mountain; (used in place names)
岝	name of a mountain in Shandong
岞	(used in place names)
岡	ridge; mound
岡上肌	supraspinatus muscle
岡下肌	infraspinatus muscle
岡仁波齊	Mt Gang Rinpoche in Tibet; also called Mount Kailash
岡仁波齊峰	Mount Gang Rinpoche or Mount Kailash (6,638 m) in Tibet
岡山	Okayama (prefecture in Japan)
岡山區	Gangshan District in Kaohsiung, Taiwan
岡底斯山	Mt Gangdisê (6656m) in southwest Tibet, revered by Tibetans as the center of the universe
岡底斯山脈	Gangdisê mountain range in southwest Tibet
岡本	Okamoto (Japanese surname and place name)
岡比亞	Gambia
岡田	Okada (Japanese surname)
岢	used in 岢嵐|岢岚[Ke3 lan2] (the name of a place in Shanxi)
岢嵐縣	Kelan, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
岣	name of a hill in Hunan
岧	lofty peak
岨	rocky hill
岩	cliff; rock
岩倉	Iwakura, Japanese name and place-name
岩倉使節團	the Iwakura mission (Japanese diplomatic and exploratory mission to US and Europe of 1871)
岩土體	gneiss
岩壑	rocky mountain valley
岩屑	(rock) debris; scree
岩層	rock strata
岩崎	Iwasaki (Japanese surname)
岩徑	mountain path
岩手	Iwate (prefecture in Japan)
岩沙海葵毒素	palytoxin
岩流圈	(geology) asthenosphere
岩溶	(geology) karst
岩漿	(geology) magma
岩漿岩	igneous rock
岩漿流	lava flow
岩濱鷸	(bird species of China) rock sandpiper (Calidris ptilocnemis)
岩燕	(bird species of China) Eurasian crag martin (Ptyonoprogne rupestris)
岩石	(geology) rock
岩石圈	(geology) lithosphere
岩石學	petrology; lithology; study of rocks
岩石層	rock stratum
岩穴	grotto; cave
岩羊	bharal
岩降	rappelling; abseiling
岩雷鳥	(bird species of China) rock ptarmigan (Lagopus muta)
岩鴿	(bird species of China) hill pigeon (Columba rupestris)
岩鷺	(bird species of China) Pacific reef heron (Egretta sacra)
岩鹽	rock salt
岫	cave; mountain peak
岫岩滿族自治縣	Xiuyan Manchu Autonomous County, in Anshan City 鞍山市[An1 shan1 Shi4], Liaoning
岬	cape (geography); headland
岬角	cape; headland; promontory
岭	used in 岭巆|岭𫶕[ling2 ying2]
岭巆	deep in the mountains
岱	Mt Tai in Shandong; same as 泰山
岱宗	another name for Mt Tai 泰山 in Shandong as principal or ancestor of the Five Sacred Mountains 五嶽|五岳[Wu3 yue4]
岱山縣	Daishan, a county in Zhoushan City 舟山市[Zhou1 shan1 Shi4], Zhejiang
岱嶽區	Daiyue, a district of Tai'an City 泰安市[Tai4 an1 Shi4], Shandong
岱廟	Dai Temple, a temple in Shandong for the god of Mount Tai
岳	wife's parents and paternal uncles
岳丈	father-in-law (wife's father)
岳家	wife's parents' home
岳普湖縣	Yopurga, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
岳母	wife's mother, mother-in-law
岳池縣	Yuechi, a county in Guang'an City 廣安市|广安市[Guang3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
岳父	wife's father, father-in-law
岳西縣	Yuexi, a county in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
岳陽市	Yueyang, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
岳陽樓	Yueyang Tower, famous beauty spot in Yueyang, north Hunan, overlooking Dongting Lake 洞庭湖[Dong4 ting2 Hu2]
岳陽樓區	Yueyanglou, a district of Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
岳陽樓記	On Yueyang Tower (1046), essay by Song writer Fan Zhongyan 范仲淹[Fan4 Zhong4 yan1]
岳陽縣	Yueyang, a county in Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
岳飛	Yue Fei (1103-1142), Song dynasty patriot and general
岳麓山	Mt Yuelu in Changsha 長沙|长沙[Chang2 sha1], famous for scenery, temples and tombs
岵	(literary) mountain covered with vegetation
岷	name of a river in Sichuan
岷江	Min River, Sichuan
岷縣	Min County or Minxian, a county in Dingxi City 定西市[Ding4 xi1 Shi4], Gansu
岸	bank; shore; beach; coast
岸上	ashore; on the riverbank
岸標	lighthouse; shore beacon
岸然	solemn; serious
岸邊	shore
峁	round yellow dirt mount (in the Northwest of China)
峂	(used in place names)
峇	cave; cavern; also pr. [ke1]
峇厘	Bali (island province of Indonesia) (Singapore, Malaysia)
峇峇娘惹	Peranakan Chinese (Baba-Nyonya), an ethnic group of Chinese residing in the Malay peninsula (also known as Straits Chinese)
峇拉煎	(loanword) belachan (South-East Asian condiment made from fermented shrimp paste)
峇里	Bali (island province of Indonesia) (Tw)
峋	used in 嶙峋[lin2 xun2]
峒	name of a mountain
峒室	underground mine storage room; mine passage
峓	place name
峙	used in 繁峙[Fan2 shi4] (the name of a place in Shanxi)
峚	used in 峚山[Mi4 Shan1]
峚山	Mi Shan, mountain in Shaanxi province; also written 密山[Mi4 Shan1]
峞	high and uneven
峧	(used in place names)
峨	lofty; name of a mountain
峨冠博帶	official class; intellectual class (idiom)
峨山彝族自治縣	Eshan Yi Autonomous County, in Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
峨嵋拳	Emeiquan; O Mei Ch'uan (kungfu style)
峨嵋鶲鶯	(bird species of China) Martens's warbler (Phylloscopus omeiensis)
峨眉	(used in place names, notably 峨眉山[E2 mei2 Shan1] Mount Emei in Sichuan)
峨眉山	Mount Emei in Sichuan, one of the four sacred mountains of Chinese Buddhism
峨眉山市	Emeishan, a county-level city in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
峨眉柳鶯	(bird species of China) Emei leaf warbler (Phylloscopus emeiensis)
峨邊彝族自治縣	Ebian Yi Autonomous County, in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
峪	valley
峭	high and steep; precipitous; severe or stern
峭壁	cliff; steep; precipice
峰	(of a mountain) high and tapered peak or summit
峰值	peak value
峰回路轉	the mountain road twists around each new peak (idiom)
峰峰礦區	Fengfeng Mining District, a district of Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
峰巒	peaks and ridges; ragged outline of mountain peaks
峰會	summit meeting
峰火臺	fire beacon tower (used in frontier regions in former times to relay information about the enemy, using smoke by day and fire at night)
峰線	mountain ridge line
峰頂	summit; crest
峱	name of a mountain
峴	abbr. for 峴首山|岘首山[Xian4 shou3 shan1]; Mt Xianshou in Hubei; steep hill
峴港	Da Nang or Danang, Vietnam
峴首山	Mt Xianshou in Hubei
島	island
島國	island nation (sometimes refers specifically to Japan)
島國動作片	euphemism for Japanese porn movie
島嶼	island
島弧	(geology) island arc
島民	islander
島蓋部	pars perculairs
島鏈	island chain
島鶇	(bird species of China) island thrush (Turdus poliocephalus)
峹	name of a mountain
峻	(of mountains) high; harsh or severe
峻厲	pitiless; merciless
峻峭	high and steep
峻嶺	lofty mountain range
峽	gorge
峽江縣	Xiajiang, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
峽灣	fjord
峽谷	canyon; gill; ravine
峿	name of a mountain
崀	used in place names
崆	name of a mountain
崆峒區	Kongtong, a district of Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
崇	high; sublime; lofty
崇仁縣	Chongren, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
崇信縣	Chongxin, a county in Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
崇奉	to believe in (a deity or other supernatural being); to worship
崇尚	to hold up (as an model); to hold in esteem; to revere
崇山峻嶺	towering mountains and precipitous ridges (idiom)
崇川區	Chongchuan, a district of Nantong City 南通市[Nan2 tong1 Shi4], Jiangsu
崇州市	Chongzhou, a county-level city in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
崇左市	Chongzuo, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
崇拜	to worship; adoration
崇拜者	worshipper
崇敬	to revere; to venerate; high esteem
崇文門	Chongwenmen gate in Beijing
崇明島	Chongming Island, at the mouth of the Yangtze River in Shanghai
崇洋	to idolize foreign things
崇洋媚外	to revere everything foreign and pander to overseas powers (idiom); blind worship of foreign goods and ideas
崇禎	Chongzhen, reign name of last Ming emperor (1628-1644)
崇禮區	Chongli, a district of Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
崇義縣	Chongyi, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
崇陽縣	Chongyang, a county in Xianning City 咸寧市|咸宁市[Xian2 ning2 Shi4], Hubei
崇高	majestic; sublime
崋	flowery; illustrious; Chinese
崌	mountain name
崍	name of a mountain in Sichuan
崎	mountainous
崎嶇	rugged; craggy
崑	used in place names, notably Kunlun Mountains 崑崙|昆仑[Kun1 lun2]
崑士蘭	Queensland, northeast Australian state
崑山市	Kunshan, a county-level city in Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
崑崙	Kunlun (Karakorum) mountain range in Xinjiang
崑崙山	Kunlun Mountain range
崑崙山脈	Kunlun Mountain range
崑曲	Kunqu opera, influential musical theater originating in Kunshan, Jiangsu province in Yuan times
崒	(literary) to come together; to bunch up; to concentrate
崔	(literary) (of mountains) lofty
崔健	Cui Jian (1961-), father of Chinese rock music
崔圭夏	Choe Gyuha (1919-2006), South Korean politician, president 1979-1980
崔嵬	Cui Wei (1912-1979), actor, dramatist and movie director
崔巍	tall; towering
崔明慧	Christine Choy (1964-), Chinese-American film director
崔永元	Cui Yongyuan (1963-), TV presenter
崔琦	Daniel C. Tsui (1939-), Chinese-born American physicist, winner of 1998 Nobel Prize in Physics
崔螢	Choi Yeong (1316-1388), general of Korean Goryeo dynasty
崔顥	Cui Hao (-754), Tang dynasty poet and author of poem Yellow Crane Tower 黃鶴樓|黄鹤楼
崔鴻	Cui Hong, historian at the end of Wei of the Northern Dynasties 北魏
崖	precipice; cliff; Taiwan pr. [yai2]
崖刻	rock carving; cliff engraving; words carved into cliff face
崖壁	escarpment; precipice; cliff
崖壑	valley; gulley
崖岸	cliff; steep slope; fig. arrogant and difficult person
崖州	ancient name for Hainan Island 海南島|海南岛[Hai3 nan2 Dao3]
崖州區	Yazhou, a district of Sanya City 三亞市|三亚市[San1 ya4 Shi4], Hainan
崖沙燕	(bird species of China) sand martin (Riparia riparia)
崖海鴉	(bird species of China) common murre (Uria aalge)
崖略	(literary) outline; general idea; rough sketch
崖谷	valley; ravine
崖限	cliff barring the way; fig. brick wall
崗	(bound form) hillock; mound; sentry post; policeman's beat
崗亭	sentry box; police box
崗仁波齊	Mt Gang Rinpoche in Tibet; also written 岡仁波齊|冈仁波齐
崗位	a post; a job
崗位培訓	on-the-job training
崗位工資	standard salary for a specific job (contrasted with performance pay 績效工資|绩效工资[ji4 xiao4 gong1 zi1] or commission 提成[ti2 cheng2] etc)
崗位津貼	post allowance; job-specific subsidy
崗卡	checkpoint; Taiwan pr. [gang3ka3]
崗哨	lookout post; sentry post; sentry
崗地	non-irrigated farmland on low hills
崗子	mound; hillock; welt (on the skin); ridge (on the road surface etc)
崗巴縣	Kamba, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
崗樓	watchtower; guard tower; police booth
崙	used in 崑崙|昆仑[Kun1 lun2]
崚	lofty (as of mountain)
崛	towering as a peak
崛地而起	lit. arising suddenly above the level ground (idiom); sudden emergence of prominent new feature
崛立	to tower over; rising (to a dominant position)
崛起	to rise abruptly (to a towering position); to tower over; to spring up
崞	name of a mountain
崟	high; rugged mountains; steep
崠	name of a mountain
崢	used in 崢嶸|峥嵘[zheng1 rong2]
崢嶸	towering; lofty and steep (mountains); extraordinary
崢嶸歲月	eventful years (idiom)
崤	name of a mountain in Henan; also pr. [Yao2]
崦	name of a mountain in Gansu
崦嵫	(old) name of a mountain in Gansu, where the setting sun was supposed to enter the earth
崩	to collapse; to fall into ruins; death of king or emperor
崩倒	to collapse; to crash down; to fall down in a heap
崩坍	landslide; collapse (of mountain side); talus slide
崩塌	talus slide; to crumble (of scree slope); to collapse
崩壞	crash; breakdown (of social values etc); burst
崩壞作用	mass wasting (geology); slope movement
崩大碗	gotu kola (Centella asiatica), herbaceous plant
崩摧	to collapse; to shatter
崩殂	(of an emperor) to die
崩毀	to collapse; to cave in
崩決	to burst (of dam); to be breached; to collapse
崩漏	uterine bleeding
崩潰	to collapse; to crumble; to fall apart
崩症	metrorrhagia (vaginal bleeding outside the expected menstrual period)
崩盤	(finance) to crash; to collapse; crash
崩老頭	(slang) to trick older men into repeatedly sending small sums of money by feigning romantic interest
崩落	talus slide; to crumble (of scree slope); to collapse
崩裂	to rupture; to burst open; to break up
崩陷	to fall in; to cave in
崩龍族	the Benglong (Penglung) ethnic group of Yunnan
崬	place name in Guangxi province
崮	steep-sided flat-topped mountain; mesa; (element in mountain names)
崱	lofty
崳	county in Shandong province
崴	high, lofty; precipitous
崴子	bend (in a river, road etc) (used in place names)
崴腳	to sprain one's ankle
崶	name of a legendary hill
崽	child; young animal
崽子	offspring of an animal; brat; bastard
崽賣爺田不心疼	lit. the child sells the father's farm without regret (idiom)
崾	(used in place names)
崿	cliff; precipice
嵂	to rise sharply; to tower
嵄	mountain; hill
嵇	surname Ji; name of a mountain
嵊	used in 嵊泗[Sheng4 si4] (the name of a place in Zhejiang)
嵊州市	Shengzhou, a county-level city in Shaoxing City 紹興市|绍兴市[Shao4 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
嵊泗列島	Shengsi Islands, making up Shengsi county in Zhoushan 舟山[Zhou1 shan1], Zhejiang
嵊泗縣	Shengsi, a county in Zhoushan City 舟山市[Zhou1 shan1 Shi4], Zhejiang
嵋	used in 峨嵋[E2 mei2]
嵌	to inlay; to embed; Taiwan pr. [qian1]
嵌入	to insert; to embed
嵌入式	(electronics) embedded
嵌入式衣櫃	built-in closet
嵌套	nested; nesting
嵌進	embedded; embedding
嵎	mountain range
嵐	(bound form) mountain mist
嵐山區	Lanshan, a district of Rizhao City 日照市[Ri4 zhao4 Shi4], Shandong
嵐皋縣	Langao, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
嵐縣	Lan County or Lanxian, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
嵖岈山	Chaya Mountain in Zhumadian 駐馬店|驻马店[Zhu4 ma3 dian4], Henan
嵗	years old
嵙	place name
嵛	place name in Shandong
嵞	Mt Tu in Zhejiang; also written 涂
嵞山	Mt Tu in Zhejiang; also written 涂山
嵡	of mountainous appearance
嵩	(literary) (of mountains) lofty
嵩山	Mt Song in Henan, central mountain of the Five Sacred Mountains 五嶽|五岳[Wu3 yue4]
嵩明縣	Songming, a county in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
嵩縣	Song County or Songxian, a county in Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
嵬	rocky
嵯	lofty (as of mountain)
嵴	ridge; crest; apex
嵺	(literary) vast and empty
嵼	winding mountain path
嵾	uneven; not uniform
嶁	mountain peak
嶂	cliff; range of peaks
嶄	towering; prominent; very
嶄亮	shining; brilliant
嶄勁	(dialect) to apply oneself; to make a strong effort
嶄新	brand new
嶄晴	clear weather
嶄然	outstanding; towering
嶄露頭角	to reveal outstanding talent (idiom); to stand out as conspicuously brilliant
嶄齊	orderly; tidy
嶅	hill strewn with stones; (used in place names)
嶇	used in 崎嶇|崎岖[qi2 qu1]
嶋	used as second component of Japanese names with phonetic value -shima or -jima
嶌	used in Japanese names with reading -shima or -jima
嶒	lofty; precipitous
嶓	name of a mountain
嶔	loftiness (of mountain)
嶗	name of a mountain in Shandong
嶗山	Mount Lao, mountain in Qingdao, Shandong
嶗山區	Laoshan, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
嶙	ranges of hills
嶙峋	bony (of people); craggy; rugged (of terrain)
嶝	path leading up a mountain
嶞	mountain peak
嶟	(literary) (of terrain) steep; precipitous
嶠	highest peak
嶡	precipitous; mountainous
嶢	high; steep; to tower
嶧	name of hills in Shandong
嶧城區	Yicheng, a district of Zaozhuang City 棗莊市|枣庄市[Zao3 zhuang1 Shi4], Shandong
嶨	big rocky mountain
嶭	elevated; lofty
嶮	precipitous; rugged
嶰	mountain valley
嶴	plain in the middle of the mountains
嶷	name of a mountain in Hunan
嶸	used in 崢嶸|峥嵘[zheng1 rong2]
嶺	mountain range; mountain ridge
嶺南	south of the five ranges
嶺東區	Lingdong, a district of Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
嶼	islet
嶽	high mountain; highest peak of a mountain ridge
嶽塘區	Yuetang, a district of Xiangtan City 湘潭市[Xiang1 tan2 Shi4], Hunan
嶽得爾歌	to yodel
嶽麓區	Yuelu, a district of Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
嶽麓書院	Yuelu Academy in Changsha, Hunan, famous ancient academy
巂	cuckoo; revolution of a wheel
巃	steep; precipitous (of mountain)
巆	(onom.) crashing sound; same as 訇[hong1]
巇	mountain-gorge; ravine
巉	(literary) steep; rugged; jagged; precipitous
巋	high and mighty (of mountain); hilly
巍	lofty; towering; Taiwan pr. [wei2]
巍山彝族回族自治縣	Weishan Yi and Hui Autonomous County, in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
巍峨	lofty; towering; majestic
巍巍	towering; imposing
巍然	majestic; towering; imposing
巍然屹立	to stand tall and rock-solid (idiom); towering majestically
巒	mountain ranges
巓	same as 巔|巅[dian1]; summit; mountain peak
巔	summit
巔峰	summit; apex; pinnacle (of one's career etc)
巖層	rock strata
巖床	bedrock
巖畫	rock painting; picture or writing carved on rocks
巘	peak of mountain
川	short name for Sichuan 四川[Si4 chuan1]
川劇	Sichuan opera
川匯區	Chuanhui, a district of Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
川外	abbr. for 四川外國語大學|四川外国语大学[Si4 chuan1 Wai4 guo2 yu3 Da4 xue2]
川崎	Kawasaki (name)
川建國	nickname for US President Trump 川普[Chuan1 pu3], implying that he benefitted China (hence 建國|建国[jian4 guo2]) by doing a poor job of leading the US
川普	Donald Trump (informal alternative to 特朗普[Te4 lang3 pu3])
川木香	root of Vladimiria souliei (used in TCM); Dolomiaea souliei
川沙	Chuansha, name of street and park in Pudong New District 浦東新區|浦东新区[Pu3 dong1 xin1 qu1], Shanghai
川流不息	the stream flows without stopping (idiom); unending flow
川滇藏	Sichuan, Yunnan and Tibet
川澤	marshes; swamps
川穀	same as 薏苡[yi4 yi3]
川端康成	Kawabata Yasunari, Japanese literature Nobel laureate
川芎	chuanxiong rhizome (rhizome of Ligusticum wallichii, used in TCM)
川菜	Sichuan or Szechuan cuisine
川藏	Sichuan and Tibet
川褐頭山雀	(bird species of China) Sichuan tit (Poecile weigoldicus)
川西	Western Sichuan
川貝	Sichuan fritillary bulb (Bulbus fritillariae cirrhosae, used in TCM)
川資	travel expenses
川震	Sichuan great earthquake, the magnitude 8 earthquake of May 2008 at Wenchuan 汶川, Sichuan, that killed more than 80,000 people
川魯粵蘇浙閩湘徽	the cuisines of Sichuan, Shandong, Guangdong, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian, Hunan and Anhui (the eight major cuisines of China 八大菜系[ba1 da4 cai4 xi4])
川黨	Sichuan codonopsis (Codonopsis pilosula, root used in TCM)
川黨參	Sichuan codonopsis (Codonopsis pilosula, root used in TCM)
州	prefecture; (old) province; (old) administrative division
州伯	governor (of a province); provincial chief (old)
州界	state border; state line
州立	state-run
州立大學	State University (US)
州長	governor (of a province or colony); (US) state governor
巟	a watery waste; to reach
巠	underground watercourse; archaic variant of 經|经[jing1]
巡	to patrol; to make one's rounds; classifier for rounds of drinks
巡弋	(of military ships or aircraft) to patrol; to cruise defensively; (of aircraft) to conduct defensive sorties
巡捕	to patrol; policeman (in China's former foreign concessions)
巡捕房	(old) police station in a foreign concession 租界[zu1 jie4]
巡撫	inspector-general of province in Ming and Qing times
巡更	to patrol at night, marking the time by sounding clappers or gongs
巡查	to patrol
巡洋艦	cruiser (warship); battle cruiser
巡測儀	survey meter
巡演	(theater etc) to tour; to be on tour; to give itinerant performances (abbr. for 巡迴演出|巡回演出[xun2 hui2 yan3 chu1])
巡禮	to make a pilgrimage (to visit a holy site)
巡航	(military) to patrol (airspace or waters)
巡航導彈	cruise missile
巡行	to patrol; to perambulate; to travel around within an area
巡視	to inspect (a site); (of a dignitary) to visit; to go on an inspection tour
巡警	police patrol; patrol officer; (old) police officer
巡迴	to go around; to roam; to tour
巡迴法庭	circuit court
巡迴演出	(theater etc) to tour; to be on tour; to give itinerant performances
巡遊	to cruise; to patrol
巡邏	to patrol
巡邏船	patrol vessel; cutter
巡邏艇	patrol boat
巡邏車	patrol car
巡邏隊	(army, police) patrol
巢	surname Chao
巢湖	Chao Lake in Hefei 合肥[He2 fei2], Anhui
巢湖市	Chaohu, a county-level city in Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
巢穴	lair; nest; den
工	work; worker; skill
工事	defensive structure; military fortifications; (Tw) construction works
工人	worker
工人日報	Workers' Daily, Chinese newspaper founded in 1949
工人階級	working class
工人黨	Workers' Party (Singapore opposition party)
工件	workpiece
工位	workstation
工作	to work; (of a machine) to operate; job
工作人員	staff member
工作列	taskbar (computing) (Tw)
工作單位	work unit
工作坊	workshop; atelier; studio; (Tw) workshop; seminar
工作報告	working report; operating report
工作委員會	working committee
工作室	studio; workshop
工作日	workday; working day; weekday
工作時間	working hours
工作服	work clothes; workwear
工作檯	workbench; work station
工作流	workflow
工作流程	workflow
工作犬	working dog
工作狂	workaholic
工作站	(computer) workstation
工作管理員	(computing) task manager (Tw)
工作組	work team; working group; task force
工作者	worker
工作表	worksheet
工作記憶	working memory
工作證	employee identification card; work permit
工作過度	overwork
工作量	workload; volume of work
工作隊	a working group; a task force
工作面	(mining) face (as in coalface 採煤工作面|采煤工作面[cai3 mei2 gong1 zuo4 mian4])
工作餐	working meal
工信部	Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (abbr)
工傷	work-related injury; industrial injury
工傷假	injury leave
工價	rate of pay; piece rate
工兵	military engineer
工具	tool; instrument; utensil
工具人	(neologism, attested by 2010) (slang) a person used by sb as a means to an end
工具書	reference book (such as dictionary, almanac, gazetteer etc)
工具條	toolbar (in computer software)
工具機	machine tool
工具欄	toolbar (in computer software)
工具箱	toolbox
工具鏈	(computing) toolchain
工分	work point (measure of work completed in a rural commune in the PRC during the planned economy era)
工匠	craftsman; artisan
工友	odd-job worker (janitor, groundsman etc) at a school or government office
工口	erotic (loanword mimicking the shape of Japanese katakana エロ, pronounced "ero")
工商	industry and commerce
工商業	industry and commerce
工商界	industry; the world of business
工商管理碩士	Master of Business Administration (MBA)
工商銀行	Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
工單	work order; job ticket; (IT, customer service) service ticket
工地	construction site
工地秀	concert held at a real estate development site to attract home buyers (Tw)
工坊	workshop
工夫	period of time (may be months, or mere seconds); spare time; skill
工委	working committee
工字梁	I-beam
工字鋼	I-beam
工學	engineering; industrial science
工學院	school of engineering; college of engineering
工寮	(Tw) (on-site) workers' dormitory hut; workers' shed
工尺譜	traditional Chinese musical notation using Chinese characters to represent musical notes
工布江達縣	Gongbo'gyamda, a county in Nyingchi City 林芝市[Lin2 zhi1 Shi4], Tibet
工序	working procedure; process
工廠	factory
工房	workshop; temporary housing for workers; workers' living quarters
工整	fine work; carefully and neatly done
工於心計	scheming; calculating
工時	man-hour
工會	labor union; trade union
工期	project duration; construction period
工校	technical school; abbr. for 工業學校|工业学校[gong1 ye4 xue2 xiao4]
工棚	temporary construction-site shed (sometimes used as workers' accommodation)
工業	industry
工業七國集團	G7, the group of 7 industrialized countries: US, Japan, Britain, Germany, France, Italy and Canada (now G8, including Russia)
工業化	to industrialize; industrialization
工業化國家	industrialized country
工業區	industrial zone
工業品	manufactured goods
工業國	industrialized country
工業園區	industrial park
工業大學	technical university; engineering college
工業學校	technical or industrial school
工業旅遊	industrial tourism (visiting a place to learn about its local industries and their production processes)
工業現代化	modernization of industry, one of Deng Xiaoping's Four Modernizations
工業設計	industrial design
工業革命	Industrial Revolution, c. 1750-1830
工欲善其事，必先利其器	To do a good job, an artisan needs the best tools (idiom). Good tools are prerequisite to the successful execution of a job
工況	working condition (of equipment)
工礦	industry and mining
工礦用地	industrial and mining area
工科	engineering as an academic subject
工程	engineering; an engineering project; project
工程圖	engineering graphics; technical drawing
工程圖學	engineering graphics; technical drawing
工程學	engineering
工程師	engineer
工種	kind of work in production (e.g. benchwork, foundry work etc)
工筆	gongbi, traditional Chinese painting method characterized by meticulous brush technique and detailed description
工簽	work visa; work permit (abbr. for 工作簽證|工作签证[gong1 zuo4 qian1 zheng4])
工薪族	salaried class
工薪階層	salaried class
工藝	arts and crafts; industrial arts
工藝品	handicraft article; handiwork
工藝美術	applied art
工藤	Kudō (Japanese surname)
工號	employee number
工蜂	worker bee
工蟻	worker ant
工行	ICBC (Industrial and Commercial Bank of China)
工裝	work clothes; workwear
工裝褲	overalls (clothing); coveralls
工讀	(of a student) to work part-time (while continuing one's studies)
工讀學校	reformatory; reform school
工讀生	student who also works part-time; (old) reform-school student
工資	wages; pay
工資卡	debit card used to receive one's salary or wages
工資帽	salary cap
工賊	strikebreaker; scab; traitor to the working class
工農	workers and peasants
工農兵	workers, peasants, and soldiers; the proletariat
工農區	Gongnong, a district of Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
工農業	industry and agriculture
工部	Ministry of Works (in imperial China)
工錢	salary; wages
工頭	foreman
工頻	utility frequency; power frequency; mains frequency
工體	abbr. for 北京工人體育場|北京工人体育场[Bei3 jing1 Gong1 ren2 Ti3 yu4 chang3], Workers Stadium
工黨	worker's party; labor party
工齡	length of service (in years); years of employment
左	left; the Left (politics); east
左上	upper left
左下	lower left
左不過	anyhow; in any event; just
左丘明	Zuo Qiuming or Zuoqiu Ming (556-451), famous blind historian from Lu 魯國|鲁国[Lu3 guo2] to whom the history Zuo Zhuan 左傳|左传[Zuo3 Zhuan4] is attributed
左側	left side
左傳	Zuo Zhuan or Tsochuan, Mr Zuo's Annals or Mr Zuo's commentary on 春秋[Chun1 qiu1], early history c. 400 BC attributed to famous blind historian Zuo Qiuming 左丘明[Zuo3 Qiu1 ming2]
左傾	left-leaning; progressive
左傾機會主義	(Marxist jargon) left opportunism; ultra-left deviation ignoring objective conditions and pushing for radical goals prematurely
左券	a sure thing; a certainty; copy of a contract held by a creditor
左券在握	to be assured of success (idiom)
左前衛	left forward (soccer position)
左口魚	flounder
左右	left and right; nearby; approximately
左右兩難	(idiom) between a rock and a hard place; in a dilemma
左右共利	ambidextrous
左右勾拳	left hook and right hook (boxing); the old one-two
左右手	left and right hands; (fig.) capable assistant; right-hand man
左右為難	(idiom) between a rock and a hard place; in a dilemma
左右袒	to take sides with; to be partial to; to be biased
左右逢源	lit. to strike water right and left (idiom)
左右開弓	lit. to shoot from both sides (idiom); fig. to display ambidexterity
左嗓子	off-key singing voice; sb who sings off-key
左字頭	"top of 左 character" component in Chinese characters
左宗棠	Zuo Zongtang (1812-1885), Chinese administrator and military leader
左宗棠雞	General Tso's chicken, a deep-fried chicken dish
左對齊	to left justify (typography)
左岸	Left Bank (in Paris)
左彎右拐	to follow a winding path
左思	Zuo Si (3rd century), Jin dynasty writer and poet
左思右想	to turn over in one's mind (idiom); to think through from different angles
左手	left hand; left-hand side
左拉	Zola (name); Émile Zola (1840-1902), French naturalist novelist
左撇子	left-hander
左擁右抱	(idiom) to have a girl on each arm
左支右絀	to be in straitened circumstances
左權縣	Zuoquan, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
左氏春秋	Mr Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals, attributed to famous blind historian Zuo Qiuming 左丘明[Zuo3 Qiu1 ming2]
左氧氟沙星	levofloxacin (broad-spectrum antibacterial agent)
左派	(political) left; left wing; leftist
左營	Zuoying or Tsoying district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
左營區	Zuoying or Tsoying district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
左箭頭	left-pointing arrow
左箭頭鍵	left arrow key (on keyboard)
左翼	left-wing (political)
左耳入，右耳出	in one ear and out the other
左聯	the League of the Left-Wing Writers, an organization of writers formed in China in 1930
左膀右臂	(idiom) trusted assistant; key aide
左至右	left-to-right
左舵	left rudder
左舷	port (side of a ship)
左袒	to take sides with; to be partial to; to be biased
左貢縣	Zogang, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
左輪手槍	revolver
左轉	to turn left
左近	nearby
左道惑眾	to delude the masses with heretical doctrines (idiom)
左邊	left; the left side; to the left of
左鄰右舍	neighbors; next-door neighbors; related work units
左雲縣	Zuoyun, a county in Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
左面	left side
左顧右盼	glancing to left and right (idiom); to look all around
左首	left-hand side
巧	opportunely; coincidentally; as it happens
巧了	what a coincidence!
巧人	Homo habilis, extinct species of upright East African hominid (Tw)
巧克力	(loanword) chocolate
巧克力脆片	chocolate chip
巧匠	skilled workman
巧合	coincidence; coincidental; to coincide
巧固球	tchoukball (loanword)
巧妙	ingenious; clever; ingenuity; artifice
巧婦	clever wife; ingenious housewife
巧婦難為無米之炊	The cleverest housewife cannot cook without rice (idiom); You won't get anywhere without equipment.
巧家縣	Qiaojia, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
巧幹	to work resourcefully; to apply intelligence
巧思	innovative thinking; ingenuity
巧手	skillful hands; dexterous; a dab hand
巧立名目	to fabricate excuses (idiom)
巧舌如簧	lit. to have a tongue like the reed of a wind instrument (idiom)
巧言令色	to be glib in one's speech and wear an ingratiating expression (idiom)
巧計	maneuver; scheme
巧詐	deceitful; crafty; artful
巧詐不如拙誠	the unvarnished truth is better than a cunning ruse (idiom)
巧辯	to argue skillfully or plausibly; rhetoric
巨	very large; huge; tremendous; gigantic; (coll.) very; extremely
巨乳	large breasts; busty
巨亨	tycoon; mogul
巨人	giant
巨人觀	bloated corpse
巨匠	great master (of literature, music etc)
巨嘴柳鶯	(bird species of China) Radde's warbler (Phylloscopus schwarzi)
巨嘴沙雀	(bird species of China) desert finch (Rhodospiza obsoleta)
巨嘴短翅鶯	(bird species of China) long-billed bush warbler (Locustella major)
巨嘴鳥	toucan
巨噬細胞	macrophage
巨型	giant; enormous
巨大	huge; immense; enormous; gigantic
巨大影響	huge influence
巨嬰	large infant; macrosomic baby
巨富	enormous sum; millionaire; very rich
巨峰	Kyoho (grape type)
巨幅	extremely large (of paintings, photographs etc)
巨擘	(of a person) leading figure; authority (in a field)
巨星	(astronomy) giant star; (fig.) superstar (of opera, basketball etc)
巨款	huge sum of money
巨流	strong current
巨海扇蛤	great scallop (Pecten maxiumus); king scallop
巨無霸	Big Mac (McDonald's hamburger)
巨無霸指數	Big Mac Index, a measure of the purchasing power parity (PPP) between currencies
巨無霸漢堡包指數	Big Mac Index, a measure of the purchasing power parity (PPP) between currencies
巨爵座	Crater (constellation)
巨牙鯊	megalodon (Carcharodon megalodon)
巨獸	giant creature; huge animal
巨石	huge rock; boulder; monolith
巨石柱群	Stonehenge
巨石陣	giant stone arrangement; Stonehenge
巨細	big and small
巨細胞病毒	cytomegalovirus (CMV)
巨細胞病毒視網膜炎	cytomegalovirus retinitis (CMV retinitis), a disease of the retina that can lead to blindness
巨著	monumental (literary) work
巨蛇尾	(astronomy) Serpens Cauda
巨蛇座	Serpens (constellation)
巨蛋	oval-shaped stadium; dome; arena
巨蜥	monitor lizards (family Varanidae)
巨蟒	python
巨蟹	Cancer (star sign)
巨蟹座	Cancer (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
巨蠹	public enemy number one
巨變	great changes
巨資	huge investment; vast sum
巨輪	large ship; large wheel
巨野縣	Juye, a county in Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
巨量	huge quantity; massive
巨量轉移	mass transfer (in LED panel manufacturing)
巨集	(computing) macro (primarily Hong Kong and Taiwan)
巨響	loud sound
巨頭	tycoon; magnate; big player (including company, country, school etc)
巨額	a huge sum; an enormous amount (of money)
巨魔	(gaming) troll; (Internet) troll
巨鳾	(bird species of China) giant nuthatch (Sitta magna)
巨鹿縣	Julu, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
巨龍	gigantic dragon (lit. and fig.)
巫	surname Wu; also pr. [Wu2]
巫婆	witch; sorceress; female shaman
巫山	Mt Wu on the Changjiang River (Yangtze) by the Three Gorges
巫山縣	Wushan, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
巫峽	Wuxia Gorge on the Changjiang or Yangtze, the middle of the Three Gorges 三峽|三峡[San1 Xia2]
巫師	wizard; magician
巫毒	voodoo (loanword)
巫毒教	Voodoo religion
巫溪縣	Wuxi, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
巫統	UMNO (United Malays National Organization), Malaysia's largest political party
巫蠱	witchcraft
巫蠱之禍	91 BC attempted coup d'etat against Emperor Wu of Han 漢武帝|汉武帝, beginning with accusations of witchcraft
巫術	witchcraft
巫裔	(Malaysia, Singapore) ethnic Malays
巫覡	shaman; wizard; witch
巫醫	witch doctor; medicine man; shaman
差	to send (on an errand); (archaic) person sent on such an errand
差不多	almost; nearly; more or less
差不多的	the great majority
差不離	not much different; similar; ordinary
差之毫釐，失之千里	the slightest difference leads to a huge loss (idiom)
差之毫釐，謬以千里	the slightest difference leads to a huge error (idiom)
差事	poor; not up to standard
差使	official post; billet; commission
差價	difference in price
差分	(math.) increment; difference; (engineering) differential
差分方程	difference equation (math.)
差別	difference; distinction; disparity
差勁	bad; no good; below average
差動齒輪	differential gear
差商	(math.) difference quotient; (math.) divided difference
差失	mistake; slip-up
差強人意	(idiom) just passable; barely satisfactory
差役	forced labor of feudal tenant (corvée); bailiff of feudal yamen
差得多	to fall well short (in terms of quality, quantity or degree)
差數	difference (the result of subtraction)
差旅	to travel on business; to go on a business trip
差旅費	business travel expenses
差池	mistake; error; mishap
差派	to dispatch
差生	weak student
差生文具多	(neologism, attested by 2021) underachieving students tend to buy lots of stationery; (fig.) all the gear and no idea
差異	difference; discrepancy
差異化	differentiation (of a product from its competitors etc)
差異性	difference
差訛	error; mistake
差評	poor evaluation; adverse criticism
差誤	mistake
差謬	error
差距	disparity; gap
差速器	differential (gear)
差遠	inferior; not up to par; to fall far short
差遣	to send (on errand)
差錯	mistake; slip-up; fault; error; accident; mishap
差額	balance (financial); discrepancy (in a sum or quota); difference
差額選舉	competitive election (i.e. with more candidates than seats)
差點	almost; nearly
差點沒	almost; nearly; (i.e. same as 差點|差点[cha4 dian3])
巰	hydrosulfuryl
己	self; oneself; sixth of the ten Heavenly Stems 十天干[shi2 tian1 gan1]
己丑	twenty-sixth year F2 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2009 or 2069
己亥	thirty-sixth year F12 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1959 or 2019
己卯	sixteenth year F4 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1999 or 2059
己型肝炎	hepatitis F
己巳	sixth year F6 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1989 or 2049
己所不欲，勿施於人	What you don't want done to you, don't do to others. (idiom, from the Confucian analects)
己方	our side; one's own (side etc)
己未	fifty-sixth year F8 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1979 or 2039
己糖	hexose (CH2O)6, monosaccharide with six carbon atoms, such as glucose 葡萄糖[pu2 tao5 tang2]
己見	one's own viewpoint
己酉	forty-sixth year F10 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1969 or 2029
已	already; to stop; then
已久	already a long time
已作故人	to have passed away
已婚	married
已婚已育	married, with one or more children
已往	the past
已成形	preformed
已故	the late; deceased
已然	already; to be already so; to have long been the case
已知	known (to science)
已經	already
已見分曉	the result becomes apparent; (after) the dust has settled
巳	6th earthly branch: 9-11 a.m., 4th solar month (5th May-5th June), year of the Snake
巳時	9-11 am (in the system of two-hour subdivisions used in former times)
巳蛇	Year 6, year of the Snake (e.g. 2001)
巴	Ba, a state during the Zhou dynasty (in present-day Chongqing and the eastern part of Sichuan)
巴三覽四	to talk about this and that (idiom); to ramble incoherently
巴不得	(coll.) to be eager for; to long for; to look forward to
巴不能夠	avid; eager for; longing for
巴中市	Bazhong, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
巴仙	(Singapore) (loanword) percent
巴以	Palestinian-Israeli (relations)
巴伊蘭大學	Bar-Ilan University, in Israel
巴伐利亞	Bavaria
巴倫支海	Barents Sea
巴倫西亞	Valencia, Spain
巴先	(Singapore) (loanword) percent
巴克夏豬	Berkshire pig; Berkshire swine
巴克拉瓦	(loanword) baklava
巴克斯	Bacchus, Greek god of wine
巴克特里亞	Bactria, an ancient country of Central Asia
巴克科斯	Bacchus, Greek god of wine
巴克萊	Barclay or Berkeley (name)
巴克萊銀行	Barclays Bank
巴別塔	Tower of Babel, in Genesis 11:5-foll.
巴利	the Pali language or, more broadly, the scriptural and literary tradition of Theravada Buddhism
巴利文	Pali, language of Theravad Pali canon
巴前算後	thinking and pondering (idiom); to turn sth over in one's mind
巴剎	bazaar (loanword); Taiwan pr. [ba1 cha4]
巴力	Baal, god worshipped in many ancient Middle Eastern communities
巴力門	parliament (loanword) (old)
巴勒斯坦	Palestine
巴勒斯坦民族權力機構	Palestinian National Authority
巴勒斯坦解放組織	Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)
巴勒莫	Palermo, Italy
巴南區	Banan, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
巴卡拉瓦	(loanword) baklava
巴厘	Bali (island province of Indonesia)
巴厘島	Bali (island in Indonesia)
巴吞魯日	Baton Rouge, capital of Louisiana
巴哈	Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750), German composer (Tw)
巴哈伊	Baha'i (religion)
巴哈馬	the Bahamas
巴哥	pug (breed of dog)
巴哥犬	pug (breed of dog)
巴坦群島	Batan Islands in Bashi Channel between Taiwan and the Philippines
巴基斯坦	Pakistan
巴塘縣	Batang, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
巴塞爾	Basel, Switzerland
巴塞羅那	Barcelona, Spain
巴塞隆納	(Tw) Barcelona, Spain
巴士	bus (loanword); motor coach
巴士底	the Bastille (Paris)
巴士拉	Basra (city in Iraq)
巴士海峽	Bashi Channel in the northern part of the Luzon Strait, just south of Taiwan
巴士站	bus stop
巴婆果	pawpaw (Asimina triloba)
巴宜區	Bayi, a district of Nyingchi City 林芝市[Lin2 zhi1 Shi4], Tibet
巴宰族	Pazeh, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
巴寶莉	Burberry (brand)
巴尼亞盧卡	Banja Luka (city in Bosnia)
巴山	Mt Ba in eastern Sichuan
巴山夜雨	rain on Mt Ba (idiom); lonely in a strange land
巴山蜀水	mountains and rivers of Sichuan (idiom)
巴州	East Sichuan and Chongqing
巴州區	Bazhou, a district of Bazhong City 巴中市[Ba1 zhong1 Shi4], Sichuan
巴巴	(suffix) very; extremely
巴巴多斯	Barbados
巴巴拉	Barbara (name)
巴巴結結	to manage with difficulty; only just getting by
巴布·狄倫	(Tw) Bob Dylan, American folk singer (1941–)
巴布亞新幾內亞	Papua New Guinea
巴布亞紐幾內亞	(Tw) Papua New Guinea
巴布延群島	Babuyan Archipelago in Luzon Strait north of the Philippines
巴布拉族	Papora or Papura, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
巴布爾	Zaheeruddin Babur (1483-1530), first ruler of Mughal dynasty of India
巴希爾	Bashir (name)
巴庫	Baku, capital of Azerbaijan
巴彥淖爾市	Bayannur, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
巴彥縣	Bayan, a county in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
巴德爾	Baldr or Baldur, god in Norse mythology
巴心巴肝	with all one's heart (dialect)
巴戟	morinda root (Morinda officinalis), plant used in Chinese medicine
巴扎	bazaar (loanword)
巴拉克	Barack, Barak, Ballack (name)
巴拉圭	Paraguay
巴拉基列夫	M.A. Balakirev, Russian composer
巴拉巴斯	Barabbas (in the Biblical passion story)
巴拉迪	Mohamed ElBaradei (1942–), Director of International Atomic Energy Agency 1997–2009 and Nobel Peace Prize laureate
巴拉馬利波	Paramaribo, capital of Suriname (Tw)
巴拿芬	paraffin
巴拿馬	Panama
巴拿馬城	Panama City
巴拿馬運河	Panama Canal
巴掌	palm of the hand; classifier: slap
巴控克什米爾	Pakistan administered Kashmir
巴斯	Bath city in southwest England
巴斯克	Basque; the Basque Country
巴斯克語	Basque (language)
巴斯德	Louis Pasteur (1822-1895), French chemist and microbiologist
巴斯特爾	Basseterre, capital of Saint Kitts and Nevis
巴新	Papua New Guinea (abbr. for 巴布亞新幾內亞|巴布亚新几内亚[Ba1 bu4 ya4 Xin1 Ji3 nei4 ya4])
巴旦木	almond (loanword)
巴旦杏	almond (loanword)
巴望	to look forward to
巴東縣	Badong, a county in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
巴松	(loanword) bassoon
巴松管	(loanword) bassoon
巴林	Bahrain
巴林右	Bairin Right banner or Baarin Baruun khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
巴林右旗	Bairin Right banner or Baarin Baruun khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
巴林左	Bairin Left banner of Baarin Züün khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
巴林左旗	Bairin Left banner of Baarin Züün khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
巴枯寧主義	Bakuninism, the political and social theories associated with the Russian revolutionary and anarchist Mikhail Bakunin (1814–1876)
巴格蘭	Baghlan province of north Afghanistan
巴格蘭省	Baghlan province of north Afghanistan
巴格達	Baghdad, capital of Iraq
巴楚縣	Maralbexi, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
巴比Q	(slang) BBQ
巴比倫	Babylon
巴比妥	barbitone; barbital
巴氏	Pasteur
巴氏塗片	Pap smear; Pap test
巴氏殺菌	pasteurization
巴沙魚	(loanword) basa (Pangasius bocourti)
巴洛克	baroque (loanword)
巴烏	bawu, a free reed wind instrument shaped like a flute and played transversally, associated particularly with minority cultures of Yunnan
巴爾克嫩德	Jan Pieter Balkenende (1956-), prime minister of the Netherlands 2002-2010
巴爾喀什湖	Lake Balkhash in southeast Kazakhstan
巴爾多祿茂	Bartholomew
巴爾幹	Balkan
巴爾幹半島	Balkan Peninsula
巴爾扎克	Honoré de Balzac (1799-1850), French novelist, author of series La comédie humaine
巴爾的摩	Baltimore (place name, surname etc)
巴爾舍夫斯基	(Charlene) Barshefsky, US trade negotiator
巴特	Barth or Barthes (name)
巴特納	Batna, town in eastern Algeria
巴瑞	(name) Barry
巴生	Klang (city in Malaysia)
巴甫洛夫	Pavlov (name)
巴登	Baden (region in Germany)
巴登－符騰堡州	Baden-Württemberg, southwest German state, capital Stuttgart 斯圖加特|斯图加特[Si1 tu2 jia1 te4]
巴祖卡	bazooka (loanword)
巴紐	(Tw) Papua New Guinea (abbr. for 巴布亞紐幾內亞|巴布亚纽几内亚[Ba1 bu4 ya4 Niu3 Ji1 nei4 ya4])
巴結	to fawn on; to curry favor with; to make up to
巴縣	Ba county in Chongqing 重慶市|重庆市, Sichuan
巴羅佐	José Manuel Durão Barroso (1956-), Portuguese politician, prime minister of Portugal 2002-04, president of EU Commission from 2004-2014
巴羅克	baroque (period in Western art history) (loanword)
巴耶利巴	Paya Lebar, a place in Singapore
巴莫	Ba Maw
巴薩	Barca (nickname for FC Barcelona); Baza (town in Grenada, Spain)
巴蛸	(dialect) octopus
巴蜀	Sichuan; originally two provinces of Qin and Han
巴西	Brazil
巴西利亞	Brasilia, capital of Brazil
巴西戰舞	capoeira
巴西柔術	Brazilian jiu-jitsu
巴解	Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) (abbr. for 巴勒斯坦解放組織|巴勒斯坦解放组织[Ba1 le4 si1 tan3 Jie3 fang4 Zu3 zhi1])
巴解組織	Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)
巴豆	croton (Croton tiglium), evergreen bush of Euphorbiaceae family 大戟科[da4 ji3 ke1]
巴豆屬	Croton, genus of evergreen bush of Euphorbiaceae family 大戟科[da4 ji3 ke1]
巴豆樹	croton bush (Croton tiglium), evergreen bush of Euphorbiaceae family 大戟科[da4 ji3 ke1], with seed having strong purgative properties
巴豆殼	bark of Croton tiglium used as purgative
巴貝多	Barbados, Caribbean island (Tw)
巴貝氏蟲病	(medicine) babesiosis
巴貝蟲病	(medicine) babesiosis
巴赫	Johann Sebastian Bach (1685-1750), German composer
巴達木	almond (loanword)
巴適	(Sichuan dialect) comfortable; suitable; excellent; really good
巴里	Bari (Puglia, Italy)
巴里坤哈薩克自治縣	Barkol Kazakh Autonomous County, in Hami City 哈密市[Ha1 mi4 Shi4], Xinjiang
巴里坤草原	Barkol grasslands near Hami in Xinjiang
巴金	Ba Jin (1904–2005), novelist, author of the trilogy 家春秋[Jia1 Chun1 Qiu1]
巴金森氏症	Parkinson's disease
巴錄	Baruch (name); Baruch, disciple of Jeremiah
巴鐵	Transit Elevated Bus (TEB); (coll.) Pakistani brethren
巴閉	(Cantonese, Jyutping: baa1 bai3)
巴阿	Pakistan-Afghan
巴青縣	Baqên, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
巴音布克草原	Bayanbulak grasslands in Uldus basin of Tianshan mountains
巴音郭楞蒙古自治州	Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture, in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
巴頌管	(Tw) (loanword) bassoon
巴頭探腦	to poke one's head in and pry (idiom); to spy; nosy
巴顏喀拉	Bayankala mountain range in Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, watershed of 黃河|黄河[Huang2 He2] Huang He river
巴馬乾酪	Parmesan cheese
巴馬瑤族自治縣	Bama Yao Autonomous County, in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
巴馬科	Bamako, capital of Mali
巴高望上	to wish for higher status (idiom); to curry favor in the hope of promotion
巴黎	Paris, capital of France
巴黎公社	Paris Commune 1871, an unsuccessful proletarian uprising against the French Third Republic
巴黎大學	University of Paris
巴黎綠	Paris green; copper(II) acetoarsenite Cu(C2H3O2)2·3Cu(AsO2)2
巴黎聖母院	Notre-Dame Cathedral (Paris, France)
巷	lane; alley
巷子	alley
巷弄	alley; lane
巷戰	(military) street fighting; urban combat
巹	nuptial wine cup
巹飲	to share nuptial cup; fig. to get married
巽	to obey
巽他海峽	Sunda Strait between Sumatra and Java
巽他群島	Sunda Islands (Malay archipelago)
巽他語	Sunda language, used in West Java province in Indonesia
巾	towel; general purpose cloth; women's headcovering (old)
巾幗	woman; woman's headdress (ancient)
巾幗鬚眉	woman with a manly spirit
巿	(literary) variant of 韍|韨[fu2]
市	market; city; municipality (administrative unit)
市丈	zhang (Chinese unit of length equal to 3⅓ meters)
市中區	Shizhong, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
市中心	city center; downtown
市井	marketplace; town; the street (urban milieu)
市井小民	ordinary people; the hoi polloi; commoner
市佔率	market share; abbr. for 市場佔有率|市场占有率
市值	market capitalization; market value
市價	market price
市儈	unscrupulous businessperson; profiteer; philistine
市內	inside the city
市兩	Chinese unit of weight equivalent to 50 grams
市分	fen (Chinese unit of length equal to ⅓ centimeter)
市制	Chinese units of measurement
市北區	Shibei, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
市區	urban district; downtown; city center
市南區	Shinan, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
市厘	li (Chinese unit of length equal to ⅓ millimeter)
市場	marketplace; market; bazaar; (economics) market
市場份額	market share
市場佔有率	market share
市場價	market price
市場准入	access to markets
市場劃分	market segmentation
市場化	marketization
市場定位	positioning (marketing)
市場換技術	market access in return for technology transfer (PRC policy since the 1980s which gives foreign companies access to China's domestic market in exchange for sharing their intellectual property, characterized by the US in the 2019 trade war as "forced technology transfer")
市場營銷	marketing
市場競爭	market competition
市場經濟	market economy
市場調查	market research
市委	municipal committee
市容	appearance of a city
市寸	cun (Chinese unit of length equal to ⅓ decimeter)
市尺	chi (Chinese unit of length equal to ⅓ meter)
市府	municipal government; city government; city hall
市引	unit of distance equal to 33⅓ meters
市撮	milliliter (old)
市擔	Chinese unit of weight equal to 100 jin (or 50 kg)
市政	municipal administration
市政府	city hall; city government
市政廳	city hall
市政稅	city council rates; municipal taxes
市斤	Chinese unit of weight equal to 0.5 kg
市曹	market; official in charge of small merchants
市民	city resident; townspeople
市民社會	civil society (law)
市淨率	(finance) price-to-book ratio
市盈率	PE ratio
市立	municipal; city; city-run
市縣	towns and counties
市議員	town councilor; city councilor; alderman
市議會	city council
市轄區	city district (a county-level administrative unit under prefecture-level cities, or sub-prefecture-level under sub-provincial cities)
市郊	outer city; suburb
市里	li (Chinese unit of length equal to 500 meters)
市錢	Chinese unit of weight equivalent to 5 grams
市鎮	small town
市長	mayor
市集	fair; market (in a public place); small town
市電	utility power; mains electricity
市面	the marketplace (i.e. the world of business and commerce)
市面上	on the market
市頃	unit of area equal to 100 畝|亩[mu3] or 6.67 hectares
布	cloth; to declare; to announce
布丁	pudding (loanword)
布下	to arrange; to lay out
布什	Bush (name); George H.W. Bush (1924-2018), US president 1988-1992
布什爾	Bushehr Province of southern Iran, bordering on the Persian Gulf
布伍	to deploy troops
布依	Bouyei ethnic group
布依族	Bouyei ethnic group
布倫尼	Brønnøysund (city in Nordland, Norway)
布倫輕機槍	Bren gun, British light machine gun first produced in 1937
布偶	stuffed toy; rag doll
布偶裝	mascot costume
布偶貓	ragdoll (cat breed)
布列塔尼	Brittany, area in the north-west of France
布列斯特	Brest, town in Belarus
布加勒斯特	Bucharest, capital of Romania
布加綜合徵	Budd-Chiari syndrome
布加迪	Bugatti (name); Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S. (French car company)
布勞恩	Browne (person name)
布匹	cloth (by the yard)
布匿戰爭	the three Punic Wars (264-146 BC) between Rome and Carthage
布吉河	Buji River, tributary of Shenzhen or Shamchun River 深圳河[Shen1 zhen4 He2], Guangdong
布吉納法索	Burkina Faso (Tw)
布哈拉	Bokhara or Bukhara city in Uzbekistan
布哈林	Nikolai Ivanovich Bukharin (1888-1938), Soviet revolutionary theorist, executed after a show trial in 1937
布囊	cloth bag
布坎南	(surname) Buchanan
布城	Putrajaya, federal administrative territory of Malaysia, south of Kuala Lumpur city 吉隆坡市
布基納法索	Burkina Faso
布娃娃	rag doll
布宜諾斯艾利斯	Buenos Aires, capital of Argentina
布尼亞病毒	Bunyavirus; virus of the family Bunyaviridae
布展	to set up an exhibit
布巾	a cloth
布希	Taiwan equivalent of 布什[Bu4 shi2]
布希威克	Bushwick, a neighborhood in Brooklyn, in New York City
布希鞋	Crocs (sandals) (Tw)
布帛	cloth and silk; cotton and silk textiles
布帛菽粟	(lit.) cloth, silk, beans and grain (idiom)
布幕	screen (movie theater etc)
布干維爾	Bougainville, Papua New Guinea
布干維爾島	Bougainville Island, Papua New Guinea
布托	Bhutto (name)
布拉吉	woman's dress (loanword from Russian); gown
布拉德福德	Bradford, city in West Yorkshire, England
布拉戈維申斯克	Blagoveshchensk, Russian city on the border with China, administrative center of Amur Oblast 阿穆爾州|阿穆尔州[A1 mu4 er3 Zhou1]
布拉提斯拉瓦	(Tw) Bratislava, capital of Slovakia
布拉柴維爾	Brazzaville, capital of Congo
布拉格	Prague, capital of Czech Republic
布拉索夫	Braşov, Romania
布拉薩市	Brazzaville, capital of Congo (Tw)
布拉迪斯拉發	Bratislava, capital of Slovakia
布拖縣	Butuo, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
布控	to deploy surveillance; to put under surveillance
布斐	(loanword) buffet
布料	fabric; cloth; material (for making clothing, curtains etc)
布施	Dana (Buddhist practice of giving)
布朗	(name) Brown; Blang ethnic group
布朗克士	The Bronx, borough of New York City
布朗克斯	The Bronx, borough of New York City
布朗士	The Bronx, borough of New York City
布朗大學	Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island
布朗尼	brownie (pastry) (loanword)
布朗族	Blang ethnic group
布朗運動	(physics) Brownian motion
布松布拉	Bujumbura, capital of Burundi (Tw)
布林	Boolean (math.) (Tw)
布林迪西	Brindisi, port city on southeast heel of Italy
布格麥	bulgur (loanword)
布氏桿菌病	brucellosis (undulant fever or Mediterranean fever)
布氏葦鶯	(bird species of China) Blyth's reed warbler (Acrocephalus dumetorum)
布氏非鯽	zebra tilapia; Tilapia buttikoferi (zoology)
布氏鷚	(bird species of China) Blyth's pipit (Anthus godlewskii)
布法羅	Buffalo, New York state
布洛芬	ibuprofen
布洛陀	creator god of the Zhuang minority 壯族|壮族[Zhuang4 zu2]
布滿	to be covered with; to be filled with
布灑器	disperser
布熱津斯基	Brzezinski (name)
布爾	(surname) Boole; (math.) Boolean
布爾什維克	Bolshevik
布爾代數	Boolean algebra
布爾喬亞	(loanword) bourgeois; bourgeoisie
布爾津縣	Burqin, a county in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
布爾諾	Brno, city in Czech Republic
布瓊布拉	Bujumbura, capital of Burundi
布痕瓦爾德	Buchenwald
布穀	cuckoo
布線	wiring
布草	hotel linens
布萊克史密斯	Blacksmith (name)
布萊克本	Blackburn
布萊尼	Bryne (City in Rogaland, Norway)
布萊德湖	Lake Bled, glacial lake amid the Julian Alps in Slovenia, adjacent to the town of Bled
布萊恩	Brian (name)
布萊氏鷚	(Tw) (bird species of China) Blyth's pipit (Anthus godlewskii)
布萊爾	Blair (name)
布萊葉	Braille (name)
布萊頓	Brighton, town in England
布蘭妮·斯皮爾斯	Britney Spears (1981-), US pop singer
布蘭森	(name) Branson or Brandsen
布衣	plain cotton clothing; (literary) the common people
布衣韋帶	in hemp cloth and with a leather belt; poorly dressed
布袋	pouch; sack; bag
布袋和尚	Budai (the Laughing Budda)
布袋彈	bean bag round
布袋戲	glove puppetry
布袋戲偶	glove puppet (Tw)
布谷鳥	cuckoo (Cercococcyx spp.); same as 杜鵑鳥|杜鹃鸟[du4 juan1 niao3]
布農族	Bunun, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
布迪亞	Baudrillard (name)
布道	to preach (the Christian gospel)
布達佩斯	Budapest, capital of Hungary
布達拉宮	Potala, winter palace of Dalai Lamas in Lhasa, Tibet
布達拉山	Mt Potala in Lhasa, with Potala Palace 布達拉宮|布达拉宫
布里坦尼	Brittany (France); Bretagne
布里奇頓	Bridgetown, capital of Barbados
布里斯托	Bristol
布里斯托爾	Bristol port city in southwest England
布里斯托爾海峽	Bristol Channel in southwest England
布里斯班	Brisbane, capital of Queensland, Australia
布里特妮	Britney, Brittney or Brittany (name)
布防	to lay out a defense
布防迎戰	to prepare to meet the enemy head-on
布隆伯格	Blumberg or Bloomberg (name)
布隆方丹	Bloemfontein
布隆迪	Burundi
布雷斯特	Brest, westernmost town in France
布雷頓森林	Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, USA, location of the 1944 Bretton Woods Conference
布鞋	cloth shoes
布須曼人	bushman (African ethnic group)
布魯克	(name) Brook; Peter Brook (1925–2022), British theater director
布魯克林	Brooklyn, borough of New York City
布魯克林大橋	Brooklyn Bridge
布魯克海文國家實驗室	Brookhaven National Laboratory
布魯克海文實驗室	Brookhaven National Laboratory
布魯圖斯	Brutus (name)
布魯塞爾	Brussels, capital of Belgium
布魯姆斯伯里	Bloomsbury, London district
布魯斯	blues (music) (loanword)
布魯日	Bruges (Dutch Brugge), medieval town in Belgium
布魯氏菌病	(medicine) brucellosis
布魯特斯	Brutus (name)
帄	patch (for mending clothes)
帆	sail; Taiwan pr. [fan2], except 帆布[fan1 bu4] canvas
帆傘	parasail; parasailing
帆布	canvas; sailcloth
帆布鞋	canvas shoes
帆板	sailboard; windsurfing
帆背潛鴨	(bird species of China) canvasback (Aythya valisineria)
帆船	sailboat
希	to hope; to admire
希仁	Xiren, courtesy title of Bao Zheng 包拯[Bao1 Zheng3] (999-1062), Northern Song official renowned for his honesty
希伯來	Hebrew
希伯來人	a Hebrew
希伯來大學	the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
希伯來文	Hebrew (language)
希伯來書	Epistle of St Paul to the Hebrews
希伯來語	Hebrew (language)
希冀	(literary) to hope
希夏邦馬峰	Mt Shishapangma or Xixiabangma in Tibet (8012 m)
希律王	Herod the Great (73 BC - 4 BC), Roman-appointed king of Judea (37-4 BC)
希拉克	Jacques Chirac (1932-2019), president of France 1995-2007
希拉蕊	Taiwan equivalent of 希拉里[Xi1 la1 li3]
希拉里	Hillary (name)
希拉里·克林頓	Hillary Rodham Clinton (1947-), US Democratic politician
希斯	Heath (name)
希斯·萊傑	Heath Ledger (1979–2008), Australian actor
希斯崙	Hezron (son of Perez)
希望	to hope; a hope; a wish
希望落空	hopes are dashed
希格斯	Higgs (name)
希格斯機制	(physics) the Higgs mechanism
希格斯玻色子	Higgs boson (particle physics)
希格斯粒子	Higgs particle (particle physics)
希沃特	sievert (Sv), unit of radiation damage used in radiotherapy
希波克拉底	Hippocrates (c. 460 BC - c. 370 BC), Greek physician, father of Western medicine
希洪	Gijón (Asturian: Xixón), city in northwest Spain on the bay of Biscay
希爾	Hill (name)
希爾伯特	David Hilbert (1862–1943), German mathematician
希爾內科斯	Kirkenes (city in Finnmark, Norway)
希爾弗瑟姆	Hilversum, city in Netherlands
希爾頓	Hilton (hotel chain)
希特勒	Adolf Hitler (1889-1945)
希神	Greek mythology; abbr. for 希臘神話|希腊神话[Xi1 la4 shen2 hua4]
希羅底	Herodium (town in biblical Judea)
希臘	Greece
希臘字母	Greek alphabet
希臘文	Greek literature
希臘語	Greek language
希舒美	Zithromax (brand name for the antibiotic azithromycin 阿奇黴素|阿奇霉素[a1 qi2 mei2 su4])
希蒙·佩雷斯	Shimon Peres (1923-2016), Israel politician, prime minister in 1977, 1984-1986 and 1995-1996, president 2007-2014, recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize 1994
希西家	Hezekiah or Ezekias (740-687 BC), twelfth king of Judah (Judaism)
帑	state treasury; public funds
帑藏	state treasury
帔	cape
帕	to wrap; kerchief; handkerchief
帕內爾	Parnell (name)
帕利基爾	Palikir, capital of the Federated States of Micronesia
帕勞	Republic of Palau (Pacific island nation)
帕台農	Parthenon (Temple on the Acropolis, Athens)
帕台農神廟	Parthenon Temple on the Acropolis, Athens
帕塔亞	Pattaya or Phatthaya city in Chon Buri province of east Thailand
帕夏	pasha (loanword)
帕子	kerchief; handkerchief; headscarf
帕尼尼	(loanword) panini
帕尼巴特	Panipat, ancient city in India
帕德嫩神廟	Parthenon Temple on the Acropolis, Athens (Tw)
帕拉塞爾蘇斯	Paracelsus (1493–1541), Swiss physician, alchemist and philosopher, pioneer of toxicology and medical chemistry
帕拉馬里博	Paramaribo, capital of Suriname
帕提亞人	Parthian
帕提儂神廟	the Parthenon, Athens
帕斯	Perth, capital of Western Australia
帕斯卡	Pascal (name); Blaise Pascal (1623-1662), French mathematician
帕斯卡三角形	Pascal's Triangle (math.)
帕斯卡六邊形	Pascal's hexagon
帕斯卡爾	Pascal (name)
帕果帕果	Pago Pago, capital of American Samoa
帕格尼尼	Niccolò Paganini (1782-1840), Italian violinist and composer
帕爾瓦蒂	Parvati (Hindu deity, the consort of Shiva)
帕特里克	Patrick (name)
帕特里夏	Patricia
帕特麗夏	Patricia
帕瑪森	Parmesan
帕瓦羅蒂	Luciano Pavarotti (1935-2007), Italian operatic tenor
帕皮提	Papeete, capital of French Polynesia
帕福斯	Paphos, Cyprus
帕米爾	the Pamirs, highland region of Central Asia
帕米爾高原	the Pamirs, highland region of Central Asia
帕累托	Vilfredo Pareto (1848-1923), Italian economist
帕累托最優	Pareto efficiency (economics); Pareto optimality
帕累托法則	Pareto principle
帕能	phanaeng (also spelled "panang") (type of Thai curry) (loanword)
帕蒂爾	Patil (name)
帕薩特	Passat (automobile)
帕蘭卡	Palanka (a personal name)
帕西	Parsi; Farsi; Persian
帕金森	(name) Parkinson
帕金森氏症	Parkinson's disease
帕金森病	Parkinson's disease
帕馬森	Parmesan
帕麗斯·希爾頓	Paris Hilton
帖	fitting snugly; appropriate; suitable
帖子	card; invitation; message
帖撒羅尼迦	Thessalonica
帖撒羅尼迦前書	First epistle of St Paul to the Thessalonians
帖撒羅尼迦後書	Second Epistle of St Paul to the Thessalonians
帖服	docile; obedient
帖木兒	Timur or Tamerlane (1336-1405), Mongol emperor and conqueror
帖木兒大汗	Timur or Tamerlane (1336-1405), Mongol emperor and conqueror
帗	object held by dancer
帘	flag used as a shop sign
帙	surname Zhi
帚	broom
帛	silk
帛琉	(Tw) Palau
帛畫	painting on silk
帛金	(HK, Singapore) money gift at a funeral
帝	(bound form) emperor; sovereign; supreme deity
帝乙	Di Yi (died 1076 BC), Shang dynasty king, reigned 1101-1076 BC
帝京	imperial capital
帝企鵝	emperor penguin (Aptenodytes forsteri)
帝位	imperial throne
帝俄	Tsarist Russia
帝俊	Dijun, Shang dynasty protector God, possibly same as legendary Emperor 帝嚳|帝喾[Di4 Ku4]
帝制	autocratic monarchy; imperial regime
帝力	Dili, capital of East Timor
帝后	empress; imperial consort
帝嚳	Di Ku or Emperor Ku, one of the Five Legendary Emperors 五帝[wu3 di4], great-grandson of the Yellow Emperor 黃帝|黄帝[Huang2 di4]
帝國	empire; imperial
帝國主義	imperialism
帝國大廈	Empire State Building (New York City)
帝國理工學院	Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine, London
帝師	(historical) emperor's tutor; (Yuan dynasty) imperial preceptor (high-ranking official title held by Tibetan Buddhism leaders)
帝汶島	Timor island
帝汶海	Timor Sea
帝王	regent; monarch
帝王企鵝	emperor penguin (Aptenodytes forsteri)
帝王蟹	king crab (esp. Paralithodes camtschaticus)
帝王譜	list of emperors and kings; dynastic genealogy
帝辛	Emperor Xin, last ruler of Shang (11th Century BC), famous as a tyrant
帝都	imperial capital
帟	canopy
帡	used in 帡幪[ping2 meng2]
帡幪	(literary) tent; to shelter
帣	a bag which holds 30 pecks (i.e. approx 3 kg dry measure)
帥	(bound form) commander-in-chief; (bound form) to lead; to command
帥呆了	awesome; brilliant; magnificent
帥哥	handsome guy; lady-killer; handsome (form of address)
帥氣	handsome; smart; dashing
帨	handkerchief
師	teacher; master; expert
師丈	teacher's husband
師傅	master; qualified worker; respectful form of address for older men
師兄	senior male fellow disciple or student (by seniority, not age)
師兄弟	male fellow disciples; fellow apprentices
師公	Daoist priest (esp. in folk religion)
師出有名	lit. to have sufficient reason to send troops (idiom)
師出無名	lit. to go to war without just cause (idiom)
師友	friend from whom you can seek advice
師古	following the ways of old; in imitation of ancient style
師大	abbr. for 師範大學|师范大学[shi1 fan4 da4 xue2], normal university
師太	elderly Buddhist nun
師夷長技以制夷	"learn from the foreigners in order to gain command of them", idea advocated by Wei Yuan 魏源[Wei4 Yuan2]
師奶	married woman of mature age
師妹	junior female student or apprentice
師姐	senior female fellow student or apprentice
師娘	term of respect for a teacher's wife; sorceress
師宗縣	Shizong, a county in Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
師尊	teacher; master
師座	(archaic form of address) his excellency the army commander
師弟	young disciple (of the same master); younger or junior male schoolmate
師徒	master and disciple
師從	to study under (a teacher)
師承	to study under; to be a disciple of; lineage of instruction
師母	term of respect for a teacher's wife
師父	used for 師傅|师傅 (in Taiwan); master; qualified worker
師父領進門，修行在個人	the master leads you to the door, the rest is up to you
師爺	(historical) privately hired legal or administrative advisor to a government official
師生	teachers and students
師祖	teacher of one's teacher (esp. in a lineage)
師範	teacher-training; pedagogical
師範大學	normal university; teacher training college
師範學院	teacher's college; normal school
師表	paragon of virtue and learning; exemplary character
師資	qualified teacher
師長	military division level commander; teacher
席	woven mat; seat; banquet
席位	a seat (in a theater, stadium etc)
席凡寧根	Scheveningen, resort in Den Haag (The Hague), Netherlands
席勒	Schiller (name)
席地	(literary) to spread a mat on the ground; (by extension) to be on the ground or floor (as in 席地靜坐|席地静坐[xi2 di4 jing4 zuo4] to meditate seated on the floor)
席地而坐	(idiom) to sit on the ground or the floor
席地而睡	to sleep on the ground
席夢思	inner-spring mattress (loanword from US mattress brand "Simmons")
席德尼	Sidney or Sydney (name)
席捲	to engulf; to sweep; to carry away everything
帳	(bound form) curtain; tent; canopy
帳子	mosquito net
帳幔	curtain
帳幕	tent
帳篷	tent
帳簾	drapery
帶	band; belt; girdle
帶上	to take along with one
帶上門	to close the door (when going through it)
帶來	to bring; (fig.) to bring about; to produce
帶兵	to lead troops
帶分數	mixed fraction
帶刺	thorny; (fig.) barbed; sarcastic
帶勁	energetic; exciting; of interest
帶動	to spur; to provide impetus; to drive
帶原者	(disease) carrier
帶去	to take along with one
帶回	to bring back; to take back with one
帶壞	to lead astray
帶大	(coll.) to raise (a child or animal) to adulthood; to bring up
帶娃	to look after a baby; to take care of a young child
帶子	belt; band; ribbon; strap; girdle; (coll.) audio or video tape
帶孩子	to look after a baby; to take care of a young child
帶寬	bandwidth
帶感	(neologism) (slang) (of music, visual style, movement or experiences) powerfully engaging in a way that excites or resonates deeply; electrifying; intense; pulse-pounding
帶有	to have as a feature or characteristic; to have an element of (confidence, sweetness, malevolence etc); to carry (a pathogen, connotation etc)
帶歪	(coll.) to lead astray
帶氣	carbonated (drink); sparkling (mineral water); to display annoyance
帶牛佩犢	to abandon armed struggle and return to raising cattle (idiom)
帶狀皰疹	shingles; herpes zoster (medicine)
帶狀電纜	ribbon cable
帶病	to be suffering from an illness (often implying "in spite of being sick")
帶種	(coll.) to have character; to have guts; plucky
帶紅色	reddish
帶累	to get sb involved in one's trouble; Taiwan pr. [dai4 lei4]
帶給	to give to; to provide to; to bring to
帶菌者	asymptomatic carrier
帶薪	to receive one's regular salary (while on vacation, study leave etc)
帶薪休假	paid leave
帶調	to have a tone mark
帶貨	(coll.) to smuggle
帶賽	(slang) (Tw) to bring bad luck
帶走	to carry; to take away
帶路	to lead the way; to guide; to show the way; (fig.) to instruct
帶路人	a guide; fig. instructor
帶過	to give sth only cursory attention
帶釦	buckle
帶隊	to lead a team; to lead a group; group leader
帶電	to be electrified; to be charged; to be live
帶電粒子	electrically charged particles
帶霉	musty; moldy
帶露	dewy
帶領	to guide; to lead
帶頭	to take the lead; to be the first; to set an example
帶頭人	leader
帶魚	ribbonfish; hairtail; beltfish
帷	curtain; screen
帷幔	drapery; curtain
帷幕	heavy curtain
常	always; ever; often
常人	ordinary person
常任	permanent
常任理事國	permanent member state (of the UN Security Council)
常住	long-term resident; permanent residence
常住論	eternalism (permanence of soul, Sanskrit śāśvata-vāda)
常來常往	to visit frequently; to have frequent dealings (with)
常俸	fixed salary of an official
常務	routine; everyday business; daily operation (of a company)
常務委員會	standing committee (e.g. of National People's Congress)
常務理事	permanent member of council
常勝軍	Ever Victorious Army (1860-1864), Qing dynasty army equipped and trained jointly with Europeans and used esp. against the Taiping rebels
常問問題	frequently asked questions; FAQ
常在河邊走，哪有不濕鞋	a person who regularly walks by the river cannot avoid getting their shoes wet (proverb)
常委	standing committee (abbr. for 常務委員會|常务委员会[chang2 wu4 wei3 yuan2 hui4])
常委會	standing committee
常客	frequent visitor; fig. sth that crops up frequently
常寧市	Changning, a county-level city in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
常山縣	Changshan, a county in Quzhou City 衢州市[Qu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
常州市	Changzhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
常常	frequently; often
常年	all year round; for years on end; average year
常微分方程	ordinary differential equation (ODE)
常德市	Changde, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
常德絲弦	Changde sixian, theatrical folk music style with singing in Changde dialect accompanied by traditional string instruments
常情	common sense; the way people usually feel about things
常態	normal state
常態分佈	normal distribution (in statistics)
常態分布	normal distribution (in statistics)
常態分班	(Tw) grouping of students into classes of mixed ability
常態化	(statistics) normalized; to normalize (relations etc)
常數	(math.) a constant
常數項	constant term (in a mathematical expression)
常春藤	ivy
常春藤學府	Ivy League school
常時	frequently; often; usually
常服	everyday clothing
常染色體	autosomal chromosome; autosome; autosomal
常模	norm (typically observed pattern)
常法	convention; normal practice; conventional treatment
常溫	room temperature; ordinary temperatures
常熟市	Changshu, a county-level city in Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
常犯	to commit (an error) often; common (mistake)
常理	common sense; conventional reasoning and morals
常用	in common usage
常用品	everyday implement; object of everyday use
常用字	commonly used Chinese character
常綠	evergreen
常綠植物	evergreen plant
常綠樹	evergreen tree
常衡制	Avoirdupois Weight, a system of weights based on the 16-ounce pound (or 7,000 grains)
常見	commonly seen; common; to see sth frequently
常見問題	common problems; FAQ
常規	code of conduct; conventions; common practice
常規武器	conventional weapon
常規賽	(sports) regular season
常言	common saying
常言說得好	as the saying goes; as they say...
常設	(of an organization etc) standing or permanent
常識	common sense; general knowledge
常軌	normal practice
常道	normal and proper practice; conventional practice; common occurrence
常量	a constant (physics, math.)
常青	evergreen
常青藤	ivy
常青藤八校	Ivy League
常項	constant term (in a mathematical expression)
常駐	resident; permanent (representative)
帹	kerchief covering head (arch.)
帹暆	kerchief covering head (arch.)
帽	hat; cap
帽匠	milliner
帽天山	Mt Maotian in Chengjiang County 澄江縣|澄江县[Cheng2 jiang1 Xian4], Yuxi, east Yunnan
帽子	hat; cap; (fig.) label
帽子叔叔	(slang) police officer
帽子戲法	hat trick (when one player scores three goals)
帽檐	brim (of a hat)
帽箍兒	the ribbon around a cap
幀	frame; classifier for paintings etc; Taiwan pr. [zheng4]
幀中繼	frame relay
幀格式	frame format
幀檢驗序列	frame check sequence (FCS)
幀率	frame rate
幀頻	frame rate; frame frequency
幀首定界符	start frame delimiter (SFD)
幃	curtain; women's apartment; tent
幃幕	screen; backdrop
幄	tent
幅	width; roll; classifier for textiles or pictures
幅員	size (i.e. area) of a country, geographical region or school campus etc
幅度	width; extent; range
幋	large scarf
幌	shop sign; (literary) window curtain
幌子	shop sign; signboard; (fig.) pretense
幏	cloth (archaic), esp. of southern ethnic groups
幔	curtain
幔子	curtain; veil
幕	curtain or screen; canopy or tent; headquarters of a general
幕僚	aides and advisors of top officials
幕布	(theater) curtain
幕府	(orig.) tents forming the offices of a commanding officer
幕後	behind the scenes
幕後操縱	to manipulate from behind the scenes; to pull the strings
幕後花絮	(cinema, TV) behind-the-scenes footage; bonus features; making-of clips (e.g. bloopers, outtakes, cast interviews or production footage)
幕後黑手	malign agent who manipulates from behind the scenes; hidden hand
幕牆	curtain wall (architecture)
幕間	interval (between acts in theater)
幗	cap worn by women; feminine
幘	turban; head-covering
幙	curtain; screen
幛	hanging scroll
幞	used in 幞頭|幞头[fu2 tou2]; Taiwan pr. [pu2]
幞頭	a kind of headscarf worn by men in ancient China
幟	flag
幠	arrogant; rude; to cover
幡	banner
幡然	suddenly and completely (realize, change one's strategy etc)
幡然改圖	to change one's plan all of a sudden (idiom)
幢	classifier for buildings (Taiwan pr. [chuang2])
幢幢	(literary) (of light, shadows) flickering; dancing
幣	money; coins; currency
幣值	value of a currency
幣別	specific currency
幣制	currency system
幣種	currency
幦	chariot canopy
幨	curtain in carriage; screen
幩	ornamental tassel on bridle
幪	used in 帡幪[ping2 meng2]
幫	to help; to assist; to support
幫倒忙	to be more of a hindrance than a help
幫傭	servant; domestic help
幫凶	accomplice; accessory
幫助	assistance; aid; to help; to assist
幫同	to help (sb do sth); to assist (sb in doing sth)
幫子	outer (of cabbage etc); upper (of a shoe); (coll.) group
幫寶適	(brand) Pampers
幫工	to help with farm work; casual laborer
幫幫忙	to help; to do a favor; (Shanghainese) Come on!
幫廚	help in the mess kitchen
幫忙	to help; to lend a hand; to do a favor
幫手	helper; assistant
幫扶	to provide assistance to; to support
幫教	to mentor
幫會	secret society; underworld gang
幫派	gang; faction
幫浦	pump (loanword)
幫腔	vocal accompaniment in some traditional Chinese operas
幫襯	to help; to assist financially
幫辦	assist in managing; deputy
幫閑	to hang on to and serve the rich and powerful by literary hack work etc
幬	canopy; curtain
幭	carriage cover
幮	a kind of mosquito net; bed curtain
幯	wipe
幰	curtain at front of carriage
干	(bound form) to have to do with; to concern oneself with
干休	to let matters rest
干係	responsibility
干寶	Gan Bao (?-336), Chinese historian and writer, author of In Search of the Supernatural 搜神記|搜神记[Sou1 shen2 Ji4]
干戈	weapons of war; arms
干擾	to disturb; to interfere; perturbation
干擾素	interferon
干支	the ten Heavenly Stems 十天干[shi2 tian1 gan1] and twelve earthly branches 十二枝
干政	to interfere in state affairs; to meddle in politics
干涉	to interfere; to meddle; interference
干涉儀	interferometer (physics)
干犯	(formal) to transgress; to encroach upon
干謁	(literary) to seek an audience with sb in power (to solicit favor)
干證	witness (in a law suit)
干邑	Cognac
干預	to meddle; to intervene; intervention
平	flat; level; smooth; to make even; to level; equal; on the same level
平交道	level crossing
平人	ordinary person; common people
平仄	level and oblique tones (technical term for Classical Chinese rhythmic poetry)
平伏	to pacify; to calm; calm
平信	ordinary mail (as opposed to air mail etc)
平倉	to close a position (finance)
平假名	hiragana (Japanese script)
平價	reasonably priced; inexpensive; to keep prices down
平凡	commonplace; ordinary; mediocre
平分	to divide evenly; to bisect (geometry); deuce (tennis)
平分秋色	to both share the limelight; to both have an equal share of
平利縣	Pingli, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
平南縣	Pingnan, a county in Guigang City 貴港市|贵港市[Gui4 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
平印	lithography; abbr. for 平版印刷[ping2 ban3 yin4 shua1]
平原	field; plain
平原縣	Pingyuan, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
平原鷚	(bird species of China) tawny pipit (Anthus campestris)
平反	to redress (an injustice); to rehabilitate (sb whose reputation was unjustly sullied)
平叛	to put down a revolt; to pacify a rebellion
平台即服務	(computing) platform as a service (PaaS)
平和	gentle; mild; moderate
平和縣	Pinghe, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
平地	to level the land; level ground; plain
平地木	(TCM) Japanese ardisia (Ardisia japonica)
平地機	land grader; road grader
平地起家	to start from scratch (idiom)
平地起風波	trouble appearing from nowhere; unforeseen situation
平均	average; on average; evenly; in equal proportions
平均主義	egalitarianism
平均值	average value
平均值定理	the mean value theorem (in calculus)
平均劑量	average dose
平均壽命	life expectancy
平均差	(math.) mean deviation
平均律	equal temperament (music)
平均成本法	(finance) dollar cost averaging
平均收入	average income
平均數	mean (statistics)
平坦	level; even; smooth
平型關	Pingxing Pass, mountain pass in Shanxi Province
平型關大捷	Great Victory at Pingxing Pass, ambush of Japanese troops by Communist forces on September 25, 1937 at 平型關|平型关[Ping2 xing2 guan1]
平城區	Pingcheng, a district of Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
平埔族	Pingpu or Pepo aborigines (Taiwan), "plains tribes"
平塘縣	Pingtang, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
平墳	to remove graves; tomb removal
平壤	Pyongyang, capital of North Korea
平壤市	Pyongyang, capital of North Korea
平壩區	Pingba, a district of Anshun City 安順市|安顺市[An1 shun4 Shi4], Guizhou
平天下	to pacify the country
平安	safe and sound; well; without mishap
平安北道	North P'yong'an Province in west of North Korea, adjacent to Liaoning
平安區	Ping'an, a district of Haidong City 海東市|海东市[Hai3 dong1 Shi4], Qinghai
平安南道	South P'yong'an Province in west of North Korea
平安夜	Silent Night (Christmas carol); Christmas Eve
平安時代	Heian period (794-1185), period of Japanese history
平安無事	safe and sound (idiom)
平安神宮	Heian Jingū or Heian Shrine, in Kyōto, Japan
平安道	P'yong'ando Province of Joseon Korea, now divided into South Pyong'an Province 平安南道[Ping2 an1 nan2 dao4] and North Pyong'an Province 平安北道[Ping2 an1 bei3 dao4] of North Korea
平安里	Ping'an Li (street name in Beijing)
平定	to pacify
平定縣	Pingding, a county in Yangquan City 陽泉市|阳泉市[Yang2 quan2 Shi4], Shanxi
平實	simple and unadorned; plain; (of land) level
平寶蓋	name of "cover" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 14)
平局	a draw (in competition); a tie
平山區	Pingshan, a district of Benxi City 本溪市[Ben3 xi1 Shi4], Liaoning
平山縣	Pingshan, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
平川	an expanse of flat land
平川區	Pingchuan, a district of Baiyin City 白銀市|白银市[Bai2 yin2 Shi4], Gansu
平常	ordinary; common; usually
平常心	levelheadedness; calmness; equanimity
平常日	weekday
平平	average; mediocre
平平常常	nothing out of the ordinary; unglamorous
平平無奇	(idiom) ordinary; unremarkable; nothing special
平年	common year
平底	flat bottomed; low heeled
平底鍋	frying pan
平度市	Pingdu, a county-level city in Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
平庸	mediocre; indifferent; commonplace
平庸之惡	(philosophy) banal evil
平庸之輩	a nobody; a nonentity
平復	to calm down; to subside; to be cured; to be healed
平心而論	(idiom) in all fairness; objectively speaking
平快車	local express
平息	(of wind etc) to subside; to die down
平成	Heisei, Japanese era name, corresponding to the reign (1989-2019) of emperor Akihito 明仁[Ming2 ren2]
平房	bungalow; single-story house
平房區	Pingfang, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
平手	(sports) draw; tie
平抑	to stabilize; to keep (prices, vermin etc) under control
平撫	to calm; to appease; to quieten
平擺	yawing (of a boat)
平攤	to spread out; (fig.) to share equally
平整	smooth; level; to level off
平方	square (as in square foot, square mile, square root)
平方公里	square kilometer
平方千米	square kilometer
平方反比定律	inverse-square law (physics)
平方反比律	inverse square law (physics)
平方平均數	root mean square (RMS); quadratic root
平方根	square root
平方米	square meter
平方英尺	square foot (unit of area equal to 0.093 m²)
平日	ordinary day; everyday; ordinarily
平旦	(literary) daybreak; dawn
平昌縣	Pingchang, a county in Bazhong City 巴中市[Ba1 zhong1 Shi4], Sichuan
平明	(literary) dawn; daybreak; impartial and astute
平易	amiable (manner); unassuming; written in plain language
平易近人	amiable and approachable (idiom); easygoing; modest and unassuming
平時	ordinarily; in normal times; in peacetime
平時不燒香，臨時抱佛腳	(lit.) to never burn incense when all's well, but clutch Buddha's feet in a crisis (proverb)
平替	(neologism c. 2021) cheaper alternative; affordable alternative
平月	February of a common year
平板	slab; flat board; (engineering) surface plate; flat; level
平板手機	phablet (large smartphone combining features of phone and tablet)
平板支撐	plank (exercise)
平板車	handcart; trolley; flatbed truck
平板電腦	tablet computer
平果市	Pingguo, a county-level city in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
平樂縣	Pingle, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
平橋區	Pingqiao, a district of Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
平權	equal rights
平權措施	affirmative action
平步青雲	to rapidly go up in the world
平武縣	Pingwu, a county in Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
平毀	to raze to the ground; to demolish
平民	ordinary people; commoner (contrasted with the privileged)
平江縣	Pingjiang, a county in Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
平泉市	Pingquan, a county-level city in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
平津戰役	Pingjin Campaign (Nov 1948-Jan 1949), one of the three major campaigns by the People's Liberation Army near the end of the Chinese Civil War
平流層	stratosphere
平涼市	Pingliang, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
平淡	flat; dull; ordinary
平淡無奇	ordinary and mediocre (idiom); nothing to write home about
平添	to add or gain sth without additional effort
平減	to deflate; to decrease (number, esp. price)
平湖市	Pinghu, a county-level city in Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
平滑	flat and smooth
平滑字	(typography) sans serif
平滑肌	smooth muscle (anatomy); non-striated muscle
平潭縣	Pingtan, a county in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
平版	lithographic plate
平生	all one's life
平生不做虧心事，半夜敲門心不驚	He who never wrongs others does not fear the knock in the night.
平疇	level farmland; well-cultivated land
平白	for no reason; gratuitously
平白無故	(idiom) for no reason whatever; inexplicably
平直	smooth; level
平移	translation (geometry)
平穩	smooth; steady
平等	equal; equality
平等主義	egalitarianism
平等互利	mutual benefit; to share profits equitably
平米	square meter (abbr. for 平方米[ping2 fang1 mi3])
平紋	plain weave
平素	usually; habitually; ordinarily
平緩	level; almost flat; not strongly sloping
平羅縣	Pingluo, a county in Shizuishan City 石嘴山市[Shi2 zui3 shan1 Shi4], Ningxia
平聲	level or even tone; first and second tones in modern Mandarin
平胸	flat-chested
平臺	platform; terrace; flat-roofed building
平舌音	alveolar
平菇	oyster mushroom (Pleurotus ostreatus)
平蕪	open grassland
平行	parallel (in a spatial or geometric sense, or figuratively)
平行世界	parallel universe
平行公設	(geometry) the parallel postulate (Euclid's fifth postulate)
平行六面體	(math.) parallelepiped
平行四邊形	parallelogram
平行宇宙	parallel universe
平行時空	parallel universe
平行線	parallel lines
平行計算	(Tw) parallel computing
平衡	balance; equilibrium
平衡態	balance; (state of) equilibrium
平衡木	beam (gymnastics); balance beam
平衡棒	haltere (insect anatomy)
平衡覺	sense of balance; equilibrioception
平衡車	self-balancing scooter; balance bike
平裝	paperback; paper-cover
平裝本	paperback (book)
平視	to look squarely at; to look straight ahead
平角	(math.) straight angle
平話	storytelling dramatic art dating back to Song and Yuan periods, single narrator without music, often historical topics with commentary
平谷區	Pinggu, a district of Beijing
平賬	(accounting) to balance the books
平起平坐	to be on an equal footing
平身	(old) to stand up (after kowtowing); You may rise.
平輩	of the same generation
平輿縣	Pingyu, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
平遙縣	Pingyao, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
平遠縣	Pingyuan, a county in Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
平邑縣	Pingyi, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
平郵	ordinary mail (not express or registered)
平鄉縣	Pingxiang, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
平野	Hirano (Japanese surname)
平鋪直敘	(idiom) (neutral) to narrate in a plain, unaffected manner; (mildly critical) to recount events in a flat, colorless style
平鍋	pan
平陰縣	Pingyin, a county in Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
平陸縣	Pinglu, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
平陽縣	Pingyang, a county in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
平靖	to suppress rebellion and quell unrest; to bring calm and order to
平靜	calm; tranquil; serene
平面	(geometry) plane; flat surface; flat; two-dimensional
平面圖	a plan; a planar graph; a plane figure
平面媒體	print media
平面幾何	plane geometry
平面曲線	(math.) plane curve
平面波	a plane wave
平面角	plane angle
平面設計	graphic design
平面鏡	(physics) plane mirror
平頂	flat roof
平頂山市	Pingdingshan, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
平順	smooth; smooth-going; plain sailing
平順縣	Pingshun, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
平頭	closely cropped hair; crew cut; (of people) common; ordinary
平頭哥	(slang) honey badger (Mellivora capensis)
平頭百姓	common people; ordinary people
平魯區	Pinglu, a district of Shuozhou City 朔州市[Shuo4 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
年	surname Nian
年三十	last day of the lunar year; Chinese New Year's Eve
年上	(slang) the older person in a romantic relationship; an older partner
年下	(coll.) the period around the end of the lunar year; the run-up to and days surrounding Spring Festival
年中	within the year; in the middle of the year; mid-year
年久失修	old and in a state of disrepair (idiom); dilapidated
年之久	period of ... years
年事	years of age; age
年事已高	old in years
年代	a decade of a century (e.g. the Sixties); age; era
年代初	beginning of an age; beginning of a decade
年代學	chronology (the science of determining the dates of past events)
年份	particular year
年來	this past year; over the last years
年俸	yearly salary
年假	annual leave; New Year holidays
年兄	lit. older brother
年內	during the current year
年刊	an annual; a yearbook
年初	beginning of the year
年前	by the end of the year
年功加俸	increase in salary according to one's service record for the year (idiom)
年友	member of a group who have gone through some experience in the same year
年味	Spring Festival atmosphere; festive ambience of Chinese New Year
年均	annual average
年均增長率	average annual growth rate
年均日照	average annual sunshine (hours)
年報	annual report; annual publication
年壽	length of life; life span
年夜	lunar New Year's Eve
年夜飯	reunion dinner on Lunar New Year's Eve (Chinese New Year tradition)
年富力強	young and vigorous (idiom)
年尊	aged and respected; senior
年少	young; junior
年少無知	(idiom) young and inexperienced; unsophisticated
年尾	end of the year
年已蹉跎	the years have already gone by; to be too old
年年	year after year; yearly; every year; annually
年年有餘	lit. (may you) have abundance year after year
年幼	young; underage
年底	the end of the year; year-end
年庚	date and time of a person's birth; age
年度	year (e.g. school year, fiscal year); annual
年度報告	annual report
年度大會	annual meeting; annual general meeting (AGM)
年度預算	annual budget
年復一年	(idiom) over the years; year after year
年息	annual interest
年成	the year's harvest
年收入	annual income
年曆	calendar; diary
年會	annual meeting
年月	months and year; time; days of one's life
年末	end of the year
年楚河	Nyang qu or Nian chu River in Tibet, a tributary of Yarlung Tsangpo
年檢	annual inspection
年歲	years of age; age
年滿	to have attained the age of
年產	annual production
年畫	New Year (Spring Festival) picture
年節	the New Year festival
年糕	nian gao, New Year cake, typically a sweet, steamed cake made with glutinous rice flour
年紀	age
年紀輕輕	at such a young age; so young
年級	grade; year (in school, college etc)
年終	end of the year
年終獎	year-end bonus
年老	aged
年老力衰	old and weak (idiom)
年老體弱	old and weak (idiom)
年華	years; time; age
年薪	annual salary
年號	reign title
年表	timeline; chronology; annals
年誼	camaraderie between persons who have gone through some experience in the same year
年譜	chronicle (of sb's life)
年貨	merchandise sold for Chinese New Year
年費	annual fee
年資	age and experience; seniority
年較差	annual range (temperature, humidity etc)
年載	years
年輕	young
年輕人	young people; youngster
年輕力壯	young and vigorous (idiom)
年輕化	to make more youthful; to promote younger staff
年輕有為	young and promising
年輕氣盛	full of youthful vigor (idiom); in the prime of youth
年輪	annual ring; growth ring
年輪蛋糕	baumkuchen (cake)
年逾	over (a certain age)
年逾古稀	over seventy years old
年過	over (a certain age)
年邁	old; aged
年金	annuity; pension; superannuation
年鑑	annual report; yearbook; almanac
年長	senior
年間	in the years of; during those years; period (of dynasty or decade)
年關	end of the year
年限	age limit; fixed number of years
年青	youthful
年頭	start of the year; whole year; a particular year
年高德劭	to be advanced in both years and virtue (idiom)
年齡	(a person's) age
年齡段	age group
年齡組	age group
幵	(literary) flat; level
并	short name for Taiyuan 太原[Tai4 yuan2]
幸	fortunate; lucky
幸事	sth fortunate; a lucky chance
幸喜	fortunately
幸好	fortunately
幸會	nice to meet you
幸災樂禍	lit. to take joy in calamity and delight in disaster (idiom); fig. to rejoice in other people's misfortune
幸甚	(literary) very fortunate
幸甚至哉	filled with joy (quotation from poems by Cao Cao 曹操[Cao2 Cao1])
幸福	happiness; happy; blessed
幸福學	eudemonics; hedonomics
幸而	by good fortune; luckily
幸虧	fortunately; luckily
幸進	to get through by luck; to be promoted by a fluke
幸運	fortunate; lucky; good fortune; luck
幸運信	chain letter
幸運兒	winner; lucky guy; person who always gets good breaks
幸運抽獎	lucky draw; lottery
幸運曲奇	fortune cookie
幸運餅乾	fortune cookie
幹	tree trunk; main part of sth; to manage
幹事	administrator; executive secretary
幹事長	secretary-general
幹什麼	what are you doing?; what's he up to?
幹仗	to quarrel (dialect)
幹你娘	(Tw) (vulgar) fuck you! (literally, "fuck your mother")
幹勁	enthusiasm for doing sth
幹嘛	what are you doing?; whatever for?; why on earth?
幹將	capable person
幹才	ability; capable
幹掉	to get rid of
幹材	capability; capable person
幹架	(dialect) to come to blows; to have a row
幹校	school for cadres; May 7 Cadre School 五七幹校|五七干校[Wu3 Qi1 Gan4 xiao4]
幹案	(Singapore, Malaysia) to commit an offence
幹活	to work; to be employed
幹流	main stream (of a river)
幹渠	trunk canal
幹細胞	stem cell
幹線	main line; trunk line
幹練	capable and experienced
幹群	cadres and masses; party officials and ordinary people
幹話	(Tw) (slang) remark that sounds like it makes sense but is actually nonsense
幹警	police; police cadres
幹道	arterial road; main road; main watercourse
幹部	cadre; official; officer
幹飯	(coll.) to have a meal
幻	fantasy
幻化	to be transformed; to metamorphose; transformation
幻境	land of fantasy; fairyland
幻夢	fantasy; illusion; dream
幻影	phantom; mirage
幻想	to fantasize; to imagine; an illusion; a fantasy
幻數	(physics) magic number
幻景	illusion; mirage
幻椅式	chair (yoga pose)
幻滅	(of dreams, hopes etc) to vanish; to evaporate
幻燈	lantern slides
幻燈機	slide projector; overhead projector
幻燈片	(computing) presentation slide; (photography) slide
幻聽	auditory hallucination
幻肢	(medicine) phantom limb
幻術	illusion magic
幻覺	illusion; hallucination; figment of one's imagination
幻覺劑	hallucinogen
幻象	illusion
幼	young
幼仔	(zoology) the young; immature offspring
幼兒	young child; infant; preschooler
幼兒園	kindergarten; nursery school
幼吾幼，以及人之幼	to care for other's children as one's own
幼女	young girl
幼妹	younger sister
幼子	youngest son; very young son
幼小	young; immature
幼崽	(zoology) the young; immature offspring
幼師	preschool teacher (abbr. for 幼兒教師|幼儿教师[you4 er2 jiao4 shi1])
幼年	childhood; infancy
幼弟	younger brother
幼態	baby-faced; having a childlike face
幼教	preschool education (abbr. for 幼兒教育|幼儿教育[you4 er2 jiao4 yu4])
幼時	childhood
幼獸	cub
幼發拉底河	Euphrates River
幼稚	young; childish; puerile
幼稚園	kindergarten (Tw)
幼童	young child
幼童軍	Cub Scout
幼苗	young sprout; bud; sapling
幼蟲	(entomology) larva
幼雛	young bird; nestling
幼馬	young horse; colt; filly
幼體	the young (unborn or newborn) of an animal; larva
幼齒	(Tw) naive and innocent (girl or boy); underage prostitute (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [iù-khí])
幽	remote; hidden away; secluded
幽僻	secluded; quiet and remote; obscure and faraway
幽冥	dark; hell; netherworld
幽囹	to keep in confinement; to confine
幽寂	(of a place) isolated and quiet
幽州	Youzhou, ancient province in north Hebei and Liaoning
幽幽	faint; indistinct
幽徑	secluded path
幽微	faint; subtle (of sound, scent etc); profound
幽怨	hidden bitterness; secret grudge
幽明	the hidden and the visible; that which can be seen and that which cannot; darkness and light; night and day; wisdom and ignorance; evil and good; the living and the dead; men and ghosts
幽暗	gloom
幽會	(usually of lovers) to rendezvous in secret
幽浮	(Tw) (loanword) UFO; unidentified flying object
幽浮迷	(Tw) UFO enthusiast
幽深	serene and hidden in depth or distance
幽禁	to place under house arrest; to imprison
幽綠	moss green; dark sea green
幽美	(of a location) beautiful and tranquil
幽谷	deep valley
幽邃	profound and unfathomable
幽門	pylorus (anatomy)
幽門螺旋桿菌	Helicobacter pylori (stomach bacterium)
幽門螺旋菌	Helicobacter pylori (stomach bacterium)
幽門螺桿菌	Helicobacter pylori (stomach bacterium)
幽閉恐懼	claustrophobia
幽閉恐懼症	claustrophobia
幽雅	serene and elegant (of a place); ethereal (of music)
幽靈	specter; apparition; ghost
幽靜	quiet; secluded; isolated
幽香	delicate fragrance
幽魂	ghost; spirit (of the dead)
幽默	(loanword) humor; humorous
幽默感	sense of humor
幾	how many; how much; several; a few
幾丁	chitin
幾丁質	chitin
幾乎	almost; nearly; practically
幾乎不	hardly; seems not
幾何	geometry; (literary) how much
幾何光學	geometric optics
幾何原本	Euclid's "Elements"
幾何圖形	geometric figure
幾何學	geometry
幾何平均數	geometric mean
幾何拓撲	(math.) geometric topology
幾何拓撲學	(math.) geometric topology
幾何級數	geometric series
幾何級數增長	exponential increase
幾何量	geometric quantity
幾個	a few; several; how many
幾倍	several times (bigger); double, treble, quadruple etc
幾內亞	Guinea; Taiwan pr. [Ji1nei4ya4]
幾內亞比索	Guinea-Bissau (Tw)
幾內亞比紹	Guinea-Bissau
幾內亞灣	Gulf of Guinea
幾分	somewhat; a bit
幾千	several thousand
幾可亂真	to seem almost genuine; easily mistaken for the real thing
幾多	(dialect) how much; how many; how (smart etc)
幾天	several days
幾天來	for the past few days
幾希	not much; very little (e.g. difference)
幾年	a few years; several years; how many years?
幾年來	for the past several years
幾度	how many times; several times
幾微	tiny; infinitesimal
幾時	at what time?; when?
幾樣	several kinds
幾次	several times
幾次三番	lit. twice then three times (idiom); fig. repeatedly
幾欲	almost; nearly going to
幾歲	how old are you? (familiar, or to a child)
幾率	probability; odds
幾米	Jimmy Liao (1958-), pen name of 廖福彬[Liao4 Fu2 bin1], Taiwanese illustrator and picture book writer
幾經	to go through numerous (setbacks, revisions etc)
幾維鳥	kiwi (bird) (loanword)
幾至	almost
幾號	(slang) heroin
幾許	(literary) how many; quite a few
幾諫	to admonish tactfully
幾近	to be on the brink of; to be on the verge of
幾進宮	(slang) to have served several sentences; recidivist; old lag
幾點	what time?; when?
广	"house on a cliff" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 53), occurring in 店, 序, 底 etc
庀	to prepare
庇	to protect; cover; shelter
庇佑	to bless; to protect; protection (esp. divine)
庇古	Arthur Cecil Pigou (1877-1959), British economist
庇祐	to bless; to protect; protection (esp. divine)
庇蔭	to give shade (of a tree etc); to shield
庇西特拉圖	Pisistratus (-528 BC), tyrant (ruler) of Athens at different times between 561 BC and 528 BC
庇護	to shelter; to protect; to provide refuge; (law) asylum
庇護所	shelter; refuge; sanctuary
庈	(person)
庉	a village; to dwell together
床	bed; couch (furniture that one can lie down on) (CL:張|张[zhang1])
床上戲	sex scene (in a movie etc)
床位	bed (in hospital, hotel, train etc); berth; bunk
床側	bedside
床友	(slang) friend with benefits; casual sex partner
床單	bed sheet
床墊	mattress
床帳	bed curtain; mosquito net
床戲	sex scene (in a movie etc)
床技	skills in bed; sexual prowess
床板	board forming the base of a bed
床沿	the edge of a bed
床笠	fitted bed sheet
床笫	bed and bamboo sleeping mat; (fig.) bed as a place for intimacy
床笫之事	bedroom matters; sexual intercourse
床笫之私	intimate matters
床罩	bedspread
床蝨	bedbug
床邊	bedside
床鈴	baby mobile; crib mobile
床鋪	bed
床頭	bedhead; bedside; headboard
床頭櫃	bedside cabinet
庋	(literary) shelf; (literary) to store; to keep; to preserve
序	(bound form) order; sequence; (bound form) introductory; initial
序列	sequence
序列號	serial number; product key (software)
序幕	prologue
序數	ordinal number
序文	preface; foreword; preamble
序曲	overture
序次	sequence; order; (literary) to arrange (books) in serial order
序章	prologue; preface; preamble
序號	ordinal number; serial number; sequence number
序言	preface; introductory remarks; preamble; prelude
序跋	preface and postscript
底	(equivalent to 的 as possessive particle)
底下	the location below sth; afterwards
底商	commercial space on the lower levels of a residential building
底夸克	bottom quark (particle physics)
底子	base; foundation; bottom
底定	(literary) to quell an insurgency; (Tw) to settle (a matter)
底層	ground floor; first floor; lowest level; lowest rung (of society etc)
底座	base; pedestal; foundation
底數	(math.) radix; base
底料	base ingredient; base (cooking); primer (paint)
底朝天	upside down; upturned
底格里斯	Tigris River, Iraq
底格里斯河	Tigris River, Iraq
底棲有孔蟲	benthic foraminifera
底棲生物	benthic organism
底樓	ground floor; first floor
底止	(literary) end; limit
底比斯	Thebes, place name in ancient Egypt; Thebes, ancient Greek city state
底氣	lung capacity; lung power; boldness; confidence; self-assurance; vigor
底汁	stock (cooking); base (of sauce or gravy)
底漆	primer
底片	negative; photographic plate
底版	(photography) negative; photographic plate; (printing) plate
底牌	cards in one's hand; (fig.) undisclosed strength or information
底特律	Detroit, Michigan
底界	lower boundary
底盤	chassis
底端	bottom; bottom side; end part
底細	inside information; the ins and outs of the matter; how things stand
底線	bottom line; the limit of what one is prepared to accept
底肥	base fertilizer
底薪	basic salary; base pay; salary floor
底蘊	inside information; concrete details
底褲	(coll.) underpants
底邊	base (of a triangle); base line; hem line (of skirt)
底部	bottom
底閥	bottom valve; foot valve
底限	lowest limit; bottom line
底面	bottom; bottom side; bottom surface
庖	kitchen
庖廚	kitchen; cook; chef
庖犧氏	another name for 伏羲[Fu2 Xi1], consort of 女媧|女娲[Nu:3 wa1]
店	inn; old-style hotel (CL:家[jia1]); (bound form) shop; store
店主	shop owner
店伙	shop assistant; shop clerk
店員	shop assistant; store clerk
店堂	customer area of a store; showroom; dining area of a restaurant
店家	(old) shopkeeper; innkeeper; (dialect) shop; store
店小二	(old) (in a tavern or inn etc) waiter; attendant
店鋪	store; shop
店錢	room charge in a hotel; accommodation expenses
店長	store manager
店面	shop front
庚	age; seventh of the ten Heavenly Stems 十天干[shi2 tian1 gan1]
庚午	seventh year G7 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1990 or 2050
庚子	37th year G1 of the 60-year cycle, e.g. 1960 or 2020
庚子國變	the crisis year of 1900 involving the Boxer uprising and the eight nation military invasion
庚寅	twenty-seventh year G3 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2010 or 2070
庚戌	forty-seventh year G11 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1970 or 2030
庚申	fifty-seventh year G9 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1980 or 2040
庚糖	heptose (CH2O)7, monosaccharide with seven carbon atoms
庚辰	seventeenth year G5 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2000 or 2060
府	seat of government; government repository (archive)
府上	(courteous) home; residence (not one's own)
府城	capital of 府 prefecture (from Tang to Qing times); prefectural seat
府尹	magistrate; prefect
府幕	government advisor
府庫	government treasury
府治	seat of prefectural government (from Tang to Qing times)
府第	mansion house; official residence
府綢	poplin (cotton cloth used for shirts)
府試	prefectural exam, the 2nd of the three entry-level exams in the imperial examination system of Ming and Qing dynasties
府谷縣	Fugu, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
府邸	mansion house; official residence
庠	(archaic) a school
庤	to prepare
庥	protection; shade
度	to pass; to spend (time); measure
度估	(Tw) to doze off (from Taiwanese 盹龜, Tai-lo pr. [tuh-ku])
度假	to go on holidays; to spend one's vacation
度假區	resort area; tourist zone (in China, typically state-designated for integrated tourism development)
度假村	resort (vacation property)
度夏	to spend the summer; to get through the summer
度外	outside the sphere of one's consideration
度姑	(Tw) to doze off (from Taiwanese 盹龜, Tai-lo pr. [tuh-ku])
度娘	alternative name for Baidu 百度[Bai3 du4]
度數	number of degrees; reading (on a meter)
度日	to pass one's days; to scratch out a difficult, meager existence
度日如年	a day drags past like a year (idiom); time hangs heavy
度牒	Buddhist or Taoist ordination certificate issued by government
度過	to pass; to spend (time); to survive
度量	measure; tolerance; breadth
度量衡	measurement
座	seat; base; stand; (bound form) constellation
座上客	guest of honor
座上賓	distinguished guest; honored guest
座位	seat
座兒	rickshaw seat (Beijing dialect); patron (of teahouse, cinema)
座右銘	motto; maxim
座堂	cathedral
座墊	saddle (of a bicycle); seat (of a car or bike); chair cushion
座子	pedestal; plinth; saddle
座席	seat (at banquet); by ext. guest of honor
座椅	seat
座標	(geometry) coordinate
座標法	(math.) coordinate method
座標空間	coordinate space
座標系	(geometry) coordinate system
座標軸	coordinate axis
座機	fixed-line phone; landline; private plane
座次	seating arrangement; position in a seating arrangement
座無虛席	lit. a banquet with no empty seats; full house; capacity crowd
座生水母	sessile medusa; sea anemone
座艙	cockpit; cabin
座號	seat number
座談	to have an informal discussion
座談會	conference; symposium; rap session
座車	(railway) carriage
座鐘	desk clock
座頭市	Zatoichi
座頭鯨	humpback whale (Megaptera novaeangliae)
座駕	one's own car (or motorbike); vehicle for one's private use
庫	warehouse; storehouse; (file) library
庫侖	Charles-Augustin de Coulomb (1736-1806), French physicist
庫侖計	voltameter
庫倫	Kulun, the former name for modern Ulan Bator, capital of Mongolia (Mongolian: temple)
庫倫旗	Hure banner or Xüree khoshuu in Tongliao 通遼|通辽[Tong1 liao2], Inner Mongolia
庫克	Cook (name)
庫克山	Mt Cook on New Zealand South Island, national park and highest peak
庫克群島	Cook Islands
庫克船長	Captain James Cook (1728-1779), British navigator and explorer
庫姆	Qom (holy city in Iran)
庫姆塔格沙漠	Kumutage (or Kumtag) Desert, northwestern China
庫存	property or cash held in reserve; stock; inventory
庫存現金	cash in hand
庫工黨	abbr. for Kurdistan Workers' Party 庫爾德工人黨|库尔德工人党[Ku4 er3 de2 Gong1 ren2 dang3]
庫布里克	Kubrick
庫德	(Tw) Kurd ethnic group
庫德斯坦	(Tw) Kurdistan
庫房	storeroom; warehouse
庫拉索	Curaçao
庫木吐拉千佛洞	Kumutula thousand-Buddha grotto in Kuqa, Xinjiang
庫爾	Chur (city in Switzerland)
庫爾勒市	Korla, a county-level city in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
庫爾尼科娃	Anna Sergeevna Kournikova (1981-), Russian tennis star and glamor model
庫爾德	Kurd; Kurdish
庫爾德人	Kurdish person or people
庫爾德工人黨	Kurdistan Worker's Party (PPK)
庫爾德斯坦	Kurdistan
庫爾斯克	Kursk (city)
庫爾特·瓦爾德海姆	Kurt Waldheim (1918-2007), Austrian diplomat and politician, secretary-general of UN 1972-1981, president of Austria 1986-1992
庫珀帶	the Kuiper belt (in the outer reaches of the Solar system)
庫納	kuna (Croatian currency)
庫肯霍夫公園	Keukenhof, flower garden in Netherlands
庫藏	to store; to have sth in storage
庫車市	Kuqa, a county-level city in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
庫里提巴	Curitiba (city in Brazil)
庫頁島	Sakhalin
庫頁島柳鶯	(bird species of China) Sakhalin leaf warbler (Phylloscopus borealoides)
庫魯病	kuru (medicine)
庬	huge
庭	main hall; front courtyard; law court
庭園	flower garden
庭堂	courtyard in front of a palace
庭外	out-of-court (settlement)
庭審	court hearing
庭訓	tuition within family; education from father
庭長	presiding judge
庭院	courtyard
庭除	front court; courtyard
庱	surname Cheng
庳	low-built house
庴	place name
庵	hut; small temple; nunnery
庵堂	Buddhist nunnery
庶	(bound form) ordinary; numerous
庶出	born of a concubine (rather than of the wife)
庶吉士	title of the temporary position in the Hanlin Academy 翰林院[Han4 lin2 yuan4] conferred on meritorious candidates until the next examination
庶妻	concubine
庶子	son born of a concubine
庶室	concubine
庶幾	(literary) similar; almost; (literary) if only; it is to be hoped that
庶民	the multitude of common people (in highbrow literature); plebeian
康	healthy; peaceful; abundant
康乃狄克	Connecticut, US state (Tw)
康乃馨	carnation (Dianthus caryophyllus) (loanword)
康乾宗迦峰	Kachenjunga (Himalayan peak)
康乾盛世	booming and golden age of Qing dynasty (from Kang Xi to Qian Long emperors)
康佳	Kongka (brand)
康保縣	Kangbao, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
康健	healthy; fit
康區	former Tibetan province of Kham, now split between Tibet and Sichuan
康多莉扎·賴斯	Condoleezza Rice (1954-), US Secretary of State 2005-2009
康奈爾	Cornell (University)
康奈爾大學	Cornell University
康定市	Kangding, a county-level city in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
康巴	Khampa, subdivision of Tibetan ethnic group
康巴地區	former Tibetan province of Kham, now split between Tibet and Sichuan
康巴藏區	former Kham province of Tibet, now split between Tibet and Sichuan
康平	peace and prosperity
康平縣	Kangping, a county in Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
康康舞	cancan (loanword)
康廣仁	Kang Guangren (1867-1898), younger brother of Kang Youwei 康有為|康有为[Kang1 You3 wei2] and one of the Six Gentlemen Martyrs 戊戌六君子 of the unsuccessful reform movement of 1898
康強	strong and healthy; fit
康復	to recuperate; to recover (health); to convalesce
康德	Immanuel Kant (1724-1804), German philosopher
康思維恩格	Kongsvinger (city in Hedemark, Norway)
康托爾	(name) Cantor
康拜因	(loanword) combine (i.e. combine harvester)
康斯坦察	Constanta (city in Romania)
康斯坦茨	Konstanz (Germany)
康普茶	(loanword) kombucha (fermented tea)
康有為	Kang Youwei (1858-1927), Confucian intellectual, educator and would-be reformer, main leader of the failed reform movement of 1898
康樂	peace and happiness (old); healthy and happy; recreation
康樂縣	Kangle, a county in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
康橋	Cambridge (city), from a poem by Xu Zhimo 徐志摩
康泰	safe and healthy
康涅狄格	Connecticut, US state
康熙	Kangxi, reign title (1662–1722) of the Kangxi Emperor 聖祖|圣祖[Sheng4 zu3]
康熙字典	the Kangxi Dictionary, named after the Kangxi Emperor, who in 1710 ordered its compilation, containing 47,035 single-character entries
康生	Kang Sheng (1896-1975), Chinese communist leader, a politburo member during the Cultural Revolution and posthumously blamed for some of its excesses
康白度	comprador (loanword)
康科德	Concord (place name); Concord, capital of US state New Hampshire
康縣	Kang County or Kangxian, a county in Longnan City 隴南市|陇南市[Long3 nan2 Shi4], Gansu
康莊大道	broad and open road (idiom); fig. brilliant future prospects
康衢	through street; thoroughfare
康馬縣	Kangmar, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
庸	ordinary; to use
庸人	mediocre person
庸人自擾	lit. silly people get their panties in a bunch (idiom)
庸俗	vulgar; tacky; tawdry
庸俗化	debasement; vulgarization
庸庸碌碌	ordinary; mediocre
庸才	mediocrity
庸碌	mediocre
庸碌無能	mediocre and incompetent
庸醫	quack; charlatan
庹	length of 2 outstretched arms
庾	surname Yu; name of a mountain
庾信	Yu Xin (513-581), poet from Liang of the Southern dynasties 南朝梁朝 and author of Lament for the South 哀江南賦|哀江南赋
廁	(bound form) restroom; toilet; lavatory
廁具	toilet fittings
廁所	toilet; lavatory
廁紙	toilet paper
廁足	(literary) to participate in; to set foot in
廁身	(humble expression) to participate (in sth); to play a humble role in
廂	box (in theater); side room; side
廂型車	van (Tw)
廂式車	van
廂房	wing (of a traditional house); side room
廄	stable; barn
廆	ancient name of a mountain west of Luoyang, Henan, now known as 谷口山[Gu3 kou3 Shan1]
廈	(bound form) tall building; mansion; (bound form) rear annex; lean-to
廈門大學	Xiamen University
廈門市	Xiamen, sub-provincial city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
廉	incorruptible; honest; inexpensive
廉俸	extra allowances paid to government officials in the Qing dynasty
廉價	cheaply-priced; low-cost
廉恥	honor and shame; sense of honor
廉政	to govern with integrity; clean and honest government
廉政公署	Independent Commission Against Corruption, Hong Kong (ICAC)
廉正	upright and honest; integrity
廉江市	Lianjiang, a county-level city in Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
廉潔	incorruptible; unbribable; honest
廉直	upright and honest; incorruptible; squeaky clean
廉租房	low-rent housing
廉署	ICAC Independent Commission Against Corruption, Hong Kong
廉航	low-cost carrier; low-cost airline; budget airline (abbr. for 廉價航空|廉价航空[lian2 jia4 hang2 kong1])
廉頗	Lian Po (327-243 BC), famous general of Zhao 趙國|赵国, repeatedly victorious over Qin 秦國|秦国 and Qi 齊國|齐国
廊	corridor; veranda; porch
廊坊市	Langfang, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
廊廟	imperial court
廊廡	portico; stoa; colonnade
廊橋	covered bridge; (aviation) passenger boarding bridge; jet bridge
廊酒	Benedictine (liquor)
廋	to search; be concealed
廌	unicorn
廎	room; small hall
廑	careful; hut
廒	granary
廓	(bound form) extensive; vast; (bound form) outline; general shape
廓清	to clear up; to wipe out; to eradicate
廖	surname Liao
廖沫沙	Liao Mosha (1907-1990), journalist and communist propagandist, severely criticized and imprisoned for 10 years during the Cultural Revolution
廙	yurt; (literary) respectful; prudent
廚	kitchen
廚具	kitchen implements
廚司	(dialect) cook; chef
廚娘	female cook
廚子	cook
廚工	kitchen helper; assistant cook
廚師	cook; chef
廚師長	executive chef; head chef
廚房	kitchen
廚藝	cooking skills; culinary talent
廚衛	kitchens and bathrooms
廚餘	kitchen waste; food waste (recycling)
廛	market place
廝	(bound form) together; each other; (bound form) male servant
廝守	to stay together; to rely on one another
廝打	to come to blows; to tussle
廝搏	to come to blows; to fight; to tussle
廝殺	to fight at close quarters; to fight tooth and nail
廝混	(derog.) to hang out (with sb); to mix (things) together
廝熟	familiar with one another
廝纏	to pester
廝鑼	small gong
廞	(literary) to arrange in ordered fashion; also pr. [qin1]
廟	temple; ancestral shrine; temple fair
廟主	head priest of a temple
廟口	Miaokou, market district in Keelung, Taiwan
廟堂	imperial ancestral temple; imperial court; temple
廟塔	temples and pagodas
廟宇	temple
廟會	temple fair
廟祝	acolyte in charge of incense in a temple
廟號	temple name of a deceased Chinese emperor
廠	factory; yard; depot
廠主	factory owner
廠務	factory operations; factory administration
廠區	factory premises; factory grounds
廠史	factory history
廠商	manufacturer; producer
廠址	factory site; location
廠妹	(derog.) young woman who works in a factory
廠子	(coll.) factory; mill; yard
廠家	factory; manufacturer; (coll.) a factory owner; the factory management
廠工	factory worker
廠弟	(derog.) young man who works in a factory
廠房	a building used as a factory; factory (building)
廠牌	brand (of a product)
廠狗	(slang) (often used self-deprecatingly) factory worker
廠礦	factories and mines
廠禮拜	(old) factory-designated weekly day off in lieu of Sunday
廠絲	filature silk
廠規	factory regulations
廠長	factory director
廡	small rooms facing or to the side of the main hall or veranda
廢	to abolish; to abandon; to abrogate
廢人	handicapped person; useless person
廢品	production rejects; seconds; scrap
廢品收購站	salvage station; recycling center
廢土	waste soil (excavation waste, contaminated soil etc)
廢墟	ruins
廢寢忘食	(idiom) to skip one's sleep and meals; to be completely wrapped up in one's work
廢寢食	to neglect sleep and food
廢弛	to fall into disuse (of laws, customs etc); to neglect
廢掉	to depose (a king)
廢料	waste products; refuse; garbage
廢時	to waste time
廢材	useless person; good-for-nothing
廢柴	(Cantonese) (coll.) good-for-nothing; loser
廢案	scrapped plan, proposal, or design
廢棄	to discard; to abandon (old ways); to invalidate
廢止	to repeal (a law); to put an end to; abolition
廢氣	exhaust gas; industrial waste gas
廢水	waste water; drain water; effluent
廢液	waste liquids
廢渣	industrial waste product; slag
廢然	depressed; dejected
廢熱	waste heat
廢物	rubbish; waste material; useless person
廢物箱	ash-bin; litter-bin
廢物點心	(coll.) a good-for-nothing; a loser
廢紙	waste paper
廢統	"abandonment of reunification", abolition of the cross-straits reunification committee
廢置	to discard; to shelve as useless
廢舊	worn out; old-fashioned and dilapidated
廢藩置縣	to abolish the feudal Han and introduce modern prefectures (refers to reorganization during Meiji Japan)
廢話	nonsense; rubbish; superfluous words
廢話連篇	a bunch of nonsense; verbose and rambling
廢銅爛鐵	scrap metal; a pile of junk
廢鋼	scrap metal; steel scrap
廢鐵	scrap iron
廢除	to abolish; to abrogate; to repeal
廢黜	to depose (a king)
廣	wide; numerous; to spread
廣九	Guangdong and Kowloon (e.g. railway)
廣九鐵路	Guangdong and Kowloon railway
廣交會	China Export Commodities Fair also known as the Canton Fair
廣信區	Guangxin, a district of Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
廣傳	to propagate
廣元市	Guangyuan, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
廣南縣	Guangnan, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
廣博	extensive
廣受好評	widely praised; well received
廣告	to advertise; a commercial; advertisement
廣告主	advertiser
廣告位	ad space; ad slot
廣告商	advertising company
廣告宣傳	advertising; publicity; promotion
廣告宣傳畫	placard; poster
廣告宣傳車	mobile billboard
廣告攔截器	ad-blocker
廣告條幅	banner advertisement
廣告欄	advertising column (in a newspaper); bulletin board
廣告片	advertising film; TV commercial
廣告牌	billboard
廣告衫	promotional T-shirt
廣域市	metropolitan city, South Korean analog of PRC municipality 直轄市|直辖市[zhi2 xia2 shi4]
廣域網	wide area network; WAN
廣域網路	wide area network; WAN
廣場	public square; plaza
廣場恐怖症	agoraphobia
廣場恐懼	agoraphobia
廣場恐懼症	agoraphobia
廣場舞	square dancing, an exercise routine performed to music in public squares, parks and plazas, popular esp. among middle-aged and retired women in China
廣外	abbr. for 廣東外語外貿大學|广东外语外贸大学[Guang3 dong1 Wai4 yu3 Wai4 mao4 Da4 xue2]
廣大	(of an area) vast or extensive; large-scale; widespread
廣子	(slang) advertisement; ad
廣安區	Guang'an, a district of Guang'an City 廣安市|广安市[Guang3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
廣安市	Guang'an, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
廣安門	Guanganmen in Xuanwu 宣武區|宣武区 district of southwest Beijing
廣宗縣	Guangzong, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
廣寧縣	Guangning, a county in Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
廣島	Hiroshima (prefecture and city in Japan)
廣州中醫藥大學	Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine
廣州市	Guangzhou, sub-provincial city and capital of Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
廣州日報	Guangzhou Daily
廣州美術學院	Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts
廣平縣	Guangping, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
廣度	breadth
廣式	Cantonese-style
廣德市	Guangde, a county-level city in Xuancheng City 宣城市[Xuan1 cheng2 Shi4], Anhui
廣播	broadcast; broadcasting; to broadcast
廣播劇	radio drama
廣播員	(radio) broadcaster
廣播地址	broadcast address
廣播室	broadcasting room
廣播節目	radio program; broadcast program
廣播網	network
廣播網路	broadcast network
廣播電台	radio station
廣播電臺	radio station; broadcasting station
廣昌縣	Guangchang, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
廣普	Guangdong pidgin (a mix of Standard Mandarin and Cantonese)
廣東人	Cantonese (people)
廣東外語外貿大學	Guangdong University of Foreign Studies
廣東海洋大學	Guangdong Ocean University
廣東省	Guangdong Province, capital Guangzhou 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4] (short name 粵|粤[Yue4])
廣東科學技術職業學院	Guangdong Institute of Science and Technology
廣東話	Cantonese language
廣柑	a variety of orange grown in Guangdong, Sichuan, Taiwan etc
廣水市	Guangshui, a county-level city in Suizhou City 隨州市|随州市[Sui2 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
廣河縣	Guanghe, a county in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
廣泛	wide; broad; extensive; widespread
廣泛影響	wide ranging influence
廣泛性焦慮症	generalized anxiety disorder (GAD)
廣漠	vast and empty
廣漢市	Guanghan, a county-level city in Deyang City 德陽市|德阳市[De2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
廣為	widely
廣目天	Virupaksa (on of the Four Heavenly Kings)
廣硯	Guangnan and Yanshan (in Yunnan)
廣結良緣	to earn people's praise through one's good deeds (idiom)
廣義	broad sense; general sense
廣義相對論	(physics) general relativity
廣而告之	to publicize widely
廣藿香	(botany) patchouli (Pogostemon cablin)
廣袤	vast
廣西壯族自治區	Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, capital Nanning 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4] (short name 桂[Gui4])
廣西省	Guangxi Province, which in 1958 became Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1], capital Nanning 南寧|南宁[Nan2 ning2]
廣角	wide-angle; panoramic; fig. wide perspective
廣角鏡	wide-angle lens
廣角鏡頭	wide angle camera shot
廣譜	broad spectrum
廣豐區	Guangfeng, a district of Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
廣遊	to travel widely (esp. as Daoist priest or Buddhist monk)
廣開言路	to encourage the free airing of views (idiom)
廣闊	wide; vast
廣陵區	Guangling, a district of Yangzhou City 揚州市|扬州市[Yang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
廣陽區	Guangyang, a district of Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
廣雅	earliest extant Chinese encyclopedia from Wei of the Three Kingdoms, 3rd century, modeled on Erya 爾雅|尔雅[Er3 ya3], 18150 entries
廣電	radio and television; broadcasting
廣電總局	National Radio and Television Administration (NRTA) (abbr. for 國家廣播電視總局|国家广播电视总局[Guo2 jia1 Guang3 bo1 Dian4 shi4 Zong3 ju2])
廣靈縣	Guangling, a county in Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
廣韻	Guangyun, Chinese rime dictionary 韻書|韵书[yun4 shu1] from 11th century, containing 26,194 single-character entries
廣饒縣	Guangrao, a county in Dongying City 東營市|东营市[Dong1 ying2 Shi4], Shandong
廥	barn; granary
廥倉	granary
廧	wall
廨	(bound form) government office
廩	government granary
廬	surname Lu
廬山	Lushan district of Jiujiang city 九江市, Jiangxi
廬山區	Lushan district of Jiujiang city 九江市, Jiangxi
廬山市	Lushan, a county-level city in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
廬江縣	Lujiang, a county in Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
廬陽區	Luyang, a district of Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
廱	harmonious
廳	(reception) hall; living room; office
廳堂	hall
廳長	head of provincial PRC government department
廴	"long stride" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 54), occurring in 建, 延, 廷 etc
延	to prolong; to extend; to delay
延伸	to extend; to stretch; to expand; to spread
延吉市	Yanji, a county-level city in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
延坪島	Yeonpyeong island on Yellow Sea coast of Korea
延壽	to prolong life; to extend lifespan
延壽縣	Yanshou, a county in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
延安市	Yan'an, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
延宕	to postpone; to keep putting sth off
延展	to extend; to stretch out
延展性	ductability
延川縣	Yanchuan, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
延平區	Yanping, a district of Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
延年	to prolong life
延年益壽	(idiom) to prolong life; to extend lifespan
延後	to postpone; to defer; to delay
延性	ductility
延慶區	Yanqing, a district of Beijing
延接	to receive sb
延擱	to delay; to procrastinate
延攬	to recruit talent; to round up; to enlist the services of sb
延時攝影	time-lapse photography
延會	to postpone a meeting
延期	to delay; to extend; to postpone
延期付款	to defer payment; to pay back over long term
延津縣	Yanjin, a county in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
延燒	(of fire) to continue burning; to spread
延畢	to postpone one's graduation (e.g. by undertaking additional studies) (abbr. for 延後畢業|延后毕业[yan2 hou4 bi4 ye4])
延發	(military) delayed action (explosion etc occurring after a predetermined delay)
延禧攻略	Story of Yanxi Palace (2018 TV series)
延綿	to extend continuously
延緩	to defer; to postpone; to put off
延續	to continue; to go on; to last
延聘	(formal) to recruit; to appoint; to invite to take up a position
延腦	(anatomy) medulla oblongata
延見	to introduce; to receive sb
延誤	to postpone (with unfortunate consequences); to take too long (to do sth); to miss (a deadline or window of opportunity)
延誤費	demurrage (shipping)
延請	to employ; to send for sb promising employment
延遲	to delay; to postpone; to keep putting sth off
延邊大學	Yanbian University (Jilin province)
延邊朝鮮族自治州	Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture, in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
延長	to prolong; to extend; to delay
延長線	extension cord; extended line; powerstrip
延長縣	Yanchang, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
延音線	tie (music)
延頸企踵	to stand on tiptoe and crane one's neck (idiom); fig. to yearn for sth
延髓	(anatomy) medulla oblongata
廷	palace courtyard
廷尉	chief judicial officer in imperial China
廷巴克圖	Timbuktoo (town and historical cultural center in Mali, a World Heritage site)
廷布	Thimphu, capital of Bhutan
廷試	court examination, the top grade imperial exam
廹	to persecute; to oppress; embarrassed
建	to establish; to found; to set up
建三江	Jiansanjiang, large-scale agricultural development in Sanjiang river plain in Heilongjiang
建交	to establish diplomatic relations
建制	organizational structure
建功立業	to achieve or accomplish goals
建商	construction company; housebuilder
建國	to found a country; nation-building
建基	to lay foundations
建始縣	Jianshi, a county in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
建安	reign name (196-219) at the end of the Han dynasty
建安區	Jian'an, a district of Xuchang City 許昌市|许昌市[Xu3 chang1 Shi4], Henan
建寧縣	Jianning, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
建屋互助會	building society (finance)
建平縣	Jianping, a county in Chaoyang City 朝陽市|朝阳市[Chao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
建康	old name for Nanjing 南京, esp. during Southern dynasties
建德市	Jiande, a county-level city in Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
建成	to establish; to build
建成區	built-up area; urban area
建政	to establish a government; esp. refers to communist takeover of 1949
建教合作	cooperative education (Tw)
建文	Jianwen Emperor, reign name of second Ming Emperor Zhu Yunwen 朱允炆[Zhu1 Yun3 wen2] (1377-1402), reigned 1398-1402
建文帝	reign name of second Ming emperor, reigned 1398-1402, deposed in 1402
建昌縣	Jianchang, a county in Huludao City 葫蘆島市|葫芦岛市[Hu2 lu2 dao3 Shi4], Liaoning
建材	building materials
建業	an old name for Nanjing, called Jiankang 建康 or Jianye during the Eastern Jin (317-420)
建構	to construct (often sth abstract, such as good relations); to set up
建模	to construct a model (an abstract model, as in applied mathematics or machine learning etc)
建樹	to make a contribution; to establish; to found
建檔	to establish records; to create a file; to archive systematically
建水縣	Jianshui, a county in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
建湖縣	Jianhu, a county in Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
建物	(Tw) building; structure
建甌市	Jian'ou, a county-level city in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
建白	to propose; to suggest; to state a view
建立	to establish; to set up; to found
建立時間	(electronics) setup time; (electronics) settling time
建立者	founder
建築	to construct; building
建築學	architectural; architecture
建築工人	construction worker; builder
建築師	architect
建築業	building industry
建築物	building; structure; edifice
建築群	building complex; cluster of buildings
建置	to set up; to establish; facilities; (government) agency; authority
建華區	Jianhua, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
建行	China Construction Bank (abbr.)
建言	to make a suggestion; to state (one's views, ideas etc); suggestion
建設	to build; to construct; to establish; to develop; to institute
建設性	constructive; constructiveness
建議	to propose; to suggest; to recommend
建議售價	recommended retail price (RRP)
建軍節	Army Day (August 1)
建造	to construct; to build
建造師	certified construction engineer
建都	to establish a capital
建鄴區	Jianye, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
建陽區	Jianyang, a district of Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
建黨	to establish a political party
建黨節	CCP Founding Day (July 1st)
廾	hands joined
廿	twenty
廿八躔	the twenty-eight constellations; also written 二十八宿[er4 shi2 ba1 xiu4]
廿四史	twenty four dynastic histories (or 25 or 26 in modern editions)
弁	(old) cap (garment); military officer of low rank (in former times)
弄	to do; to manage; to handle
弄不懂	unable to make sense of (sth)
弄不清	unable to figure out
弄丟	to lose
弄亂	to mess up; to put into disorder; to meddle with
弄假成真	pretense that turns into reality (idiom); to play at make-believe, but accidentally make it true
弄傷	to bruise; to hurt (something)
弄僵	to bring to deadlock; to result in a stalemate
弄到	to get hold of; to obtain; to secure
弄到手	to get in hand; to get (one's) hands on
弄嘴弄舌	to cause a dispute through boastful gossip (idiom)
弄堂	(dialect) alley; lane
弄壞	to ruin; to spoil; to break
弄崗穗鶥	(bird species of China) Nonggang babbler (Stachyris nonggangensis)
弄巧成拙	to overreach oneself
弄平	to flatten
弄懂	to make sense of; to grasp the meaning of; to figure out
弄明白	to figure out how to do something
弄歪	to distort
弄死	to kill; to put to death
弄混	to confuse (fail to differentiate)
弄清	to clarify; to fully understand
弄璋	(literary) to have a baby boy; to celebrate the birth of a son
弄瓦	(literary) to have a baby girl; to celebrate the birth of a daughter
弄皺	to crumple
弄直	to straighten
弄短	to shorten; shortening
弄碎	to crumble
弄糟	to spoil; to mess up
弄臣	emperor's favorite courtier
弄虛作假	to practice fraud (idiom); by trickery
弄走	(coll.) to take (sth) away; to get rid of
弄通	to get a good grasp of
弄醒	to wake sb up
弄錯	to err; to get sth wrong; to miscalculate
弄髒	to make dirty; to defile; to smear
弆	(literary) to collect; to keep in store
弇	to cover; trap
弈	ancient name for go (Chinese board game)
弊	detriment; fraud; harm
弊案	scandal
弊病	malady; evil; malpractice
弊端	systemic problem (sometimes refers specifically to corrupt practices)
弋	to shoot
弋江區	Yijiang, a district of Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
弋陽縣	Yiyang, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
弌	archaic variant of 一[yi1]
弍	archaic variant of 貳|贰, banker's anti-fraud numeral two
弎	archaic variant of 參|叁, banker's anti-fraud numeral three
式	type; form; pattern
式子	posture; (math.) expression; formula
式微	(literary) to decline; to wane
式樣	style
弒	to murder a superior; to murder one's parent
弒君	regicide; to commit regicide
弒母	matricide; to commit matricide
弒父	patricide; to kill one's own father
弓	a bow (weapon); to bend; to arch (one's back etc)
弓弦	bowstring
弓弦兒	bowstring
弓弩	bow and crossbow
弓弩手	crossbow shooter
弓形	circular segment
弓形蟲	Toxoplasma gondii
弓漿蟲	Toxoplasma gondii
弓狀	bowed; curved like a bow
弓箭	bow and arrow
弓箭手	archer
弓箭步	forward lunge (stance used in martial arts, fitness training etc)
弓背	to hunch over; to stoop; to arch one's back (upward)
弓腰	to bow; to bend at the waist
弓臂	(archery) bow limb
弓蟲	Toxoplasma gondii
弓足	bound feet
弓身	to bend the body at the waist; to bow
弓長嶺區	Gongchangling, a district of Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
弔	a string of 100 cash (arch.); to lament; to condole with
弔伐	to console the people by punishing the tyrants (abbr. for 弔民伐罪|吊民伐罪[diao4 min2 fa2 zui4])
弔古	to revisit the past; to commemorate
弔喪	to visit the bereaved to offer one's condolences
弔孝	a condolence visit
弔客	a visitor offering condolences
弔慰	to offer condolences; to console the bereaved
弔文	paper prayers for the dead burnt at funerals
弔死問疾	to grieve for the sick and the dying
弔民伐罪	to console the people by punishing the tyrants (idiom)
弔祭	a worship ceremony for the dead; to offer sacrifice (to ancestors)
弔詭	bizarre; paradoxical
引	to draw (e.g. a bow); to pull; to stretch sth
引人入勝	to enchant; fascinating
引人注意	to attract attention
引人注目	to attract attention; eye-catching; conspicuous
引介	to introduce (an idea, product, technology etc)
引以為傲	to be intensely proud of sth (idiom)
引以為憾	to consider sth regrettable (idiom)
引以為戒	to take sth as a warning (idiom)
引以為榮	to regard it as an honor (idiom)
引以為鑑	to take a lesson from (an adverse experience)
引信	fuze; detonator
引入	to draw into; to pull into; to introduce
引入迷途	to mislead; to lead astray
引出	to extract; to draw out
引別	to leave; to say goodbye
引力	gravitation (force); attraction
引力場	gravitational field
引力波	gravitational wave
引向	to lead to; to draw to; to steer towards
引吭高歌	to sing at the top of one's voice (idiom)
引咎	to take the blame; to accept responsibility (for a mistake)
引咎辭職	to admit responsibility and resign
引嫌	to avoid arousing suspicions
引子	introduction; primer; opening words
引導	to guide; to lead (around); to conduct
引導員	usher; guide
引導師	(workshop) facilitator
引導扇區	boot sector
引得	index (loanword)
引徵	quotation; citing; to cite
引戰	(Internet slang) to bait others into an argument; to ragebait
引擎	engine (loanword)
引擎蓋	(car) hood; bonnet
引敘	to introduce a text by citing documents or source material at the beginning
引文	quotation; citation
引柴	kindling (to light a fire)
引橋	bridge approach
引水	to pilot a ship; to channel water; to draw water (for irrigation)
引水入牆	lit. to lead the water through the wall; to ask for trouble (idiom)
引水工程	water-induction engineering; irrigation engineering
引決	to commit suicide
引河	irrigation channel
引流	to draw off (liquid); (medicine) to perform a drainage procedure
引渡	to extradite
引火	to kindle; to light a fire
引火柴	kindling
引火燒身	to invite trouble
引火線	fuse (for explosives); (fig.) proximate cause; the last straw
引燃	to ignite; to start (a fire); (fig.) to spark (debate, conflict etc)
引爆	to ignite; to detonate
引爆裝置	detonator
引爆點	tipping point
引狗入寨	lit. to lead the dog into the village (idiom)
引狼入室	(lit.) to show the wolf into the house (idiom)
引玉之磚	lit. a brick thrown to prompt others to produce a jade (idiom)
引理	(math.) lemma
引產	to induce labor (childbirth)
引用	to quote; to cite; to recommend; to appoint; (computing) reference
引用句	quotation
引申	to extend (the meaning of a word, an analogy etc); derivation
引申義	extended meaning (of an expression); derived sense
引發	to lead to; to trigger; to initiate
引種	(agriculture, animal husbandry) to introduce a new variety of plant or animal
引經據典	lit. to quote the classics; to quote chapter and verse (idiom)
引線	fuse (for an explosive device); electrical lead; intermediary
引線框架	(electronics) lead frame
引線穿針	to thread a needle; (fig.) to act as a go-between
引而不發	to pull the bow without shooting (idiom from Mencius); ready and waiting for action
引腳	lead; pin (computer hardware)
引著	to ignite; to kindle
引薦	to recommend sb; to give a referral
引號	quotation mark (punct.)
引號完	unquote; end of quote
引號完畢	unquote; end of quote
引蛇出洞	lit. to pull a snake from its hole; to expose a malefactor (idiom)
引見	to introduce (sb); (esp.) to present to the emperor
引言	foreword; introduction
引誘	to coerce (sb into doing sth bad); to lure (into a trap); to seduce
引語	quotation
引證	to cite; to quote; to cite as evidence
引起	to give rise to; to lead to; to cause; to arouse
引路	to guide; to show the way
引述	to quote
引退	to retire from office; to resign
引逗	to tantalize; to lead on; to tease
引進	to recommend; to introduce (from outside)
引開	to lure away; to divert
引領	to crane one's neck; to await eagerly; to lead
引頸	to crane one's neck
引頸就戮	to extend one's neck in preparation for execution (idiom)
引體向上	chin-up (physical exercise)
引鬼上門	lit. to invite the devil to one's house (idiom)
弗	(literary) not; used in transliteration
弗吉尼亞	Virginia, US state
弗州	Virginia, US state; abbr. for 弗吉尼亞州|弗吉尼亚州[Fu2 ji2 ni2 ya4 zhou1]
弗拉基米爾	Vladimir
弗拉明戈	flamenco (Tw) (loanword)
弗拉芒	Flemish, inhabitant of Flanders (Belgium)
弗拉門戈	flamenco (loanword)
弗朗索瓦·霍蘭德	François Hollande (1954-), French Socialist politician, president of France 2012-2017
弗格森	(surname) Ferguson
弗氏鷗	(bird species of China) Franklin's gull (Leucophaeus pipixcan)
弗洛伊德	Floyd (name); Freud (name)
弗洛倫蒂諾·佩雷斯	Florentino Pérez (1947-), Spanish businessman and president of Real Madrid football club
弗洛勒斯島	Flores, Indonesia; also written 弗洛里斯島|弗洛里斯岛[Fu2 luo4 li3 si1 dao3]
弗洛姆	Fromm (psychoanalyst)
弗洛里斯島	Flores, Indonesia; also written 弗洛勒斯島|弗洛勒斯岛[Fu2 luo4 lei1 si1 dao3]
弗羅茨瓦夫	Wroclaw, Polish city
弗萊威厄斯	Flavius (Roman historian of 1st century AD)
弗萊福蘭	Flevoland, province in Netherlands
弗蘭克	Frank (name)
弗蘭茲	Franz (name)
弗蘭西斯	Francis (name)
弗蘭西斯·培根	Francis Bacon (1561-1626), English Renaissance philosopher and early scientist
弗迪南	Ferdinand (name)
弗里得里希	Friedrich (name)
弗里德里希	Friedrich (name)
弗里德里希·席勒	Friedrich Schiller or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller (1759-1805), German poet and dramatist
弗里敦	Freetown, capital of Sierra Leone
弗里斯蘭	Friesland, province of the Netherlands
弗里曼	(surname) Freeman
弗雷	Freyr (god in Norse mythology)
弗雷德里克	Frederick (name)
弗雷德里克頓	Fredericton, capital of New Brunswick, Canada
弘	great; liberal
弘揚	to enhance; to promote; to enrich
弘治	Hongzhi Emperor, reign name of ninth Ming emperor 朱祐樘[Zhu1 You4 tang2] (1470-1505), reigned 1487-1505, temple name 明孝宗[Ming2 Xiao4 zong1]
弘法	to propagate Buddhist teachings
弛	to unstring a bow; to slacken; to relax
弛張熱	remittent fever
弛緩	to relax; to slacken; to ease
弝	the part of a bow grasped when shooting
弟	younger brother; junior male; I (modest word in letter)
弟兄	brothers; comrade
弟兄們	brothers; comrades; men
弟妹	younger sibling; younger brother's wife
弟婦	younger brother's wife; sister-in-law
弟媳	younger brother's wife; sister-in-law
弟子	disciple; follower
弟弟	younger brother
弢	bow case; to cover
弣	handle of bow
弤	carved bow
弦	bow string; string of musical instrument; watchspring
弦切角	chord angle (i.e. angle a chord of a curve makes to the tangent)
弦外之音	overtone (music); (fig.) connotation; implied meaning
弦數	number of strings (of an instrument)
弦月	half-moon; the 7th and 8th and 22nd and 23rd of the lunar month
弦月窗	a narrow slit window; a lunette
弦樂	string music
弦樂器	string instrument
弦樂隊	string orchestra
弦歌	to sing to a string accompaniment
弦理論	string theory (physics)
弦而鼓之	to put strings on the zither, then play it (line from a Ming dynasty text by 劉伯溫|刘伯温[Liu2 Bo2 wen1])
弦論	string theory (in theoretical physics)
弦鳴樂器	string instrument
弧	arc
弧光	arc light
弧光燈	arc lamp
弧度	radian; arc; curve
弧形	curve; arc
弧線	arc
弧菌	(biology) vibrio
弧長	arc length
弨	unbent bow
弩	crossbow
弩兵	archer; infantry armed with crossbow
弩弓	crossbow
弩砲	catapult; ballista (siege catapult firing stone blocks)
弫	(of a bow) impactful; powerful
弭	to stop; repress
弮	crossbow (arch.)
弰	ends of a bow
弱	weak; feeble; young; inferior; not as good as
弱不禁風	(lit.) too weak to stand up to the wind (idiom)
弱作用	(physics) weak interaction
弱作用力	the weak force (in particle physics)
弱側	weak side; off side (sports)
弱勢	vulnerable; weak
弱勢群體	disadvantaged social groups (e.g. the handicapped)
弱化	weaken; make weaker
弱小	small and weak; puny; the small and weak; children; women and children
弱旅	(sports) weak team; underdog (team)
弱智	weak-minded; mentally deficient; retarded
弱爆	(slang) weak; pathetic; subpar
弱相互作用	weak interaction (in particle physics); weak force
弱聽	hard of hearing; hearing-impaired
弱肉強食	(lit.) the weak are prey to the strong (idiom)
弱脈	weak pulse
弱視	amblyopia
弱酸	weak acid
弱電統一	electro-weak interaction in fermion particle physics
弱音踏板	soft pedal (on piano); una corda pedal
弱項	one's weak area
弱鹼	weak base (alkali)
弱點	weak point; failing
弳	radian (math.); now written 弧度
弳度	radian (math.); now written 弧度
張	to open up; to spread; sheet of paper
張三	Zhang San, name for an unspecified person, first of a series of three: 張三|张三[Zhang1 San1], 李四[Li3 Si4], 王五[Wang2 Wu3] Tom, Dick and Harry
張三李四	(lit.) Zhang Three and Li Four (idiom); (fig.) any Tom, Dick or Harry
張三，李四，王五，趙六	(four proverbial names) Tom, Dick and Harry
張丹	Zhang Dan (1985-), Chinese figure skater
張之洞	Zhang Zhidong (1837-1909), prominent politician in late Qing
張伯倫	Chamberlain (name); Wilt Chamberlain (1936-1999), US basketball player
張作霖	Zhang Zuolin (c. 1873-1928), warlord of Manchuria 1916-1928
張僧繇	Zhang Sengyou (active c. 490-540), one of the Four Great Painters of the Six Dynasties 六朝四大家
張儀	Zhang Yi (-309 BC), political strategist of the School of Diplomacy 縱橫家|纵横家[Zong4 heng2 jia1] during the Warring States Period (475-221 BC)
張冠李戴	lit. to put Zhang's hat on Li's head
張力	tension
張勳	Zhang Xun (1854-1923), Qing loyalist general who attempted to restore the abdicated emperor Puyi 溥儀|溥仪[Pu3 yi2] to the throne in the Manchu Restoration of 1917 張勳復辟|张勋复辟[Zhang1 Xun1 Fu4 bi4]
張勳復辟	Manchu Restoration of 1917, an attempt by General Zhang Xun 張勳|张勋[Zhang1 Xun1] to reinstate the monarchy in China by restoring abdicated emperor Puyi 溥儀|溥仪[Pu3 yi2] to the throne
張北縣	Zhangbei, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
張口	to open one's mouth (to eat, speak etc); to gape
張口結舌	agape and tongue-tied (idiom); at a loss for words
張嘴	to open one's mouth (to speak, esp. to make a request); to gape
張國榮	Leslie Cheung (1956-2003), Hong Kong singer and actor
張國燾	Zhang Guotao (1897-1979), Chinese communist leader in the 1920s and 1930s, defected to Guomindang in 1938
張大千	Chang Dai-chien or Zhang Daqian (1899-1983), one of the greatest Chinese artists of the 20th century
張天翼	Zhang Tianyi (1906-1985), children's writer, author of prize-winning fairy tale Secret of the Magic Gourd 寶葫蘆的秘密|宝葫芦的秘密[Bao3 hu2 lu5 de5 Mi4 mi4]
張太雷	Zhang Tailei (1898-1927), founding member of Chinese communist party
張學友	Jacky Cheung or Hok Yau Jacky (1961-), Cantopop and film star
張學良	Zhang Xueliang (1901-2001) son of Fengtian clique warlord, then senior general for the Nationalists and subsequently for the People's Liberation Army
張家口市	Zhangjiakou, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
張家川回族自治縣	Zhangjiachuan Hui Autonomous County, in Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
張家港市	Zhangjiagang, a county-level city in Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
張家界市	Zhangjiajie, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
張家長，李家短	lit. the Zhangs are better off than the Lis (idiom); to gossip about the neighbors
張寧	Zhang Ning (1975-), PRC female badminton player and Olympic gold medalist
張寶	Zhang Bao (-184), leader of the Yellow Turban rebels during the late Han 漢朝|汉朝[Han4 chao2]
張居正	Zhang Juzheng (1525-1582), Grand Secretary during the Ming dynasty, credited with bringing the dynasty to its apogee
張岱	Zhang Dai (1597-c. 1684), late Ming scholar
張店區	Zhangdian, a district of Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
張廷玉	Zhang Tingyu (1672-1755), Qing politician, senior minister to three successive emperors, oversaw compilation of History of the Ming Dynasty 明史[Ming2 shi3] and the Kangxi Dictionary 康熙字典[Kang1 xi1 Zi4 dian3]
張弛	tension and relaxation
張德江	Zhang Dejiang (1946-), PRC politician
張心	to be troubled; to be concerned
張志新	Zhang Zhixin (1930-1975) female revolutionary and martyr, who followed the true Marxist-Leninist line as a party member, and was arrested in 1969, then executed in 1975 after opposing the counterrevolutionary party-usurping conspiracies of Lin Biao and the Gang of Four, and only rehabilitated posthumously in 1979
張怡	Zhang Yi (1608-1695), prolific author and poet spanning interregnum between Ming and Qing
張怡寧	Zhang Yining (1981-), PRC female table tennis player and Olympic gold medalist
張惠妹	A-Mei, aka Gulilai Amit (1972-), aboriginal Taiwanese pop singer
張愛玲	Eileen Chang (1920-1995), famous Chinese-American novelist
張戎	Jung Chang (1952-), British-Chinese writer, name at birth Zhang Erhong 張二鴻|张二鸿[Zhang1 Er4 hong2], author of Wild Swans 野天鵝|野天鹅[Ye3 Tian1 e2] and Mao: The Unknown Story 毛澤東·鮮為人知的故事|毛泽东·鲜为人知的故事[Mao2 Ze2 dong1 · Xian1 wei2 ren2 zhi1 de5 Gu4 shi5]
張成澤	Jang Song-taek (1946-2013), brother-in-law of Kim Jong-il 金正日[Jin1 Zheng4 ri4], uncle and mentor of Kim Jong-un 金正恩[Jin1 Zheng4 en1], in 2013 accused of being a counter-revolutionary and executed
張掖市	Zhangye, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
張掛	to hang up (a picture, banner, mosquito net etc)
張揖	Zhang Yi (c. 3rd century), literary figure from Wei of the Three Kingdoms, other name 稚讓|稚让[Zhi4 rang4], named as compiler of earliest extant Chinese encyclopedia 廣雅|广雅[Guang3 ya3] and several lost works
張揚	to display ostentatiously; to bring out into the open; to make public
張擇端	Zhang Zeduan (1085-1145), Song dynasty painter
張敞	Zhang Chang, official and scholar of the Western Han dynasty
張旭	Zhang Xu (probably early 8th century), Tang dynasty poet and calligrapher, most famous for his grass script 草書|草书
張易之	Zhang Yizhi (-705), Tang dynasty politician and favorite of Empress Wu Zetian 武則天|武则天[Wu3 Ze2 tian1]
張春帆	Zhang Chunfan (-1935), late Qing novelist, author of The Nine-tailed Turtle 九尾龜|九尾龟
張春橋	Zhang Chunqiao (1917-2005), one of the Gang of Four
張曼玉	Maggie Cheung (1964-), Hong Kong actress
張望	to look around; to peep (through a crack); to peer at
張柏芝	Cecilia Cheung (1980-), Hong Kong actress and pop singer
張治中	Zhang Zhizhong (1890-1969), National Revolutionary Army general
張溥	Ming dynasty scholar (1602–1641), prolific writer, proponent of the Fushe 復社|复社[Fu4 she4] cultural renewal movement, author of Five Men's Tombstone Inscription 五人墓碑記|五人墓碑记[Wu3 Ren2 Mu4 bei1 ji4]
張灣區	Zhangwan, a district of Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
張燈結彩	to be decorated with lanterns and colored banners (idiom)
張牙舞爪	to bare fangs and brandish claws (idiom); to make threatening gestures
張狂	brash; insolent; frantic
張獻忠	Zhang Xianzhong (1606-1647), leader of a late-Ming peasant revolt
張王李趙	(idiom) any Tom, Dick or Harry; anyone
張皇	alarmed; flustered
張皇失措	panic-stricken (idiom); to be in a flustered state
張目	to open one's eyes wide
張秋	Cho Chang (Harry Potter)
張籍	Zhang Ji (767-830), Tang Dynasty poet
張純如	Iris Chang (1968–2004), Chinese American author of "The Rape of Nanking"
張羅	to take care of; to raise money; to attend to (guests, customers etc)
張聞天	Zhang Wentian (1900-1976), CCP party leader and theorist
張自忠	Zhang Zizhong (1891-1940), Chinese National Revolutionary Army general during the Second Sino-Japanese War
張自烈	Zhang Zilie (1597-1673), Ming dynasty scholar, author of Zhengzitong 正字通[Zheng4 zi4 tong1]
張若虛	Zhang Ruoxu (c. 660-720), Tang dynasty poet, author of yuefu poem River on a spring night 春江花月夜
張華	Zhang Hua (232-300), Western Jin writer, poet and politician
張蔭桓	Zhang Yinhuan (1837-1900), late Qing politician and senior Chinese diplomat
張藝謀	Zhang Yimou (1950-), PRC film director
張衡	Zhang Heng (78-139) great Han dynasty astronomer and mathematician
張角	Zhang Jue (-184), leader of the Yellow turban rebels during the late Han
張貼	to post (a notice); to advertise
張量	tensor (math.)
張開	to open up; to spread; to extend
張震	Chang Chen (1976-), Taiwanese film actor
張靜初	Zhang Jingchu (1980-), PRC actress
張韶涵	Angela Chang (1982-), Taiwanese pop singer and actress
張飛	Zhang Fei (168-221), general of Shu and blood-brother of Liu Bei in Romance of the Three Kingdoms, famous as fearsome fighter and lover of wine
張飛打岳飛	lit. Zhang Fei fights Yue Fei; fig. an impossible combination
張騫	Zhang Qian (-114 BC), Han dynasty explorer of 2nd century BC
張高麗	Zhang Gaoli (1946-), PRC politician
弶	snare; to snare
強	to force; to compel; to strive
強中自有強中手	(saying) however strong you are, there is always someone stronger
強人	(politics) strongman
強人所難	to force someone to do something
強令	to order by force; peremptory
強似	to be better than
強佔	to occupy by force
強作用	strong interaction (governing hadrons in nuclear physics)
強作用力	the strong force (in nuclear physics)
強使	to force; to oblige
強健	sturdy
強兵	strong soldiers; make the military powerful (political slogan)
強制	to force; to compel; to coerce; forced; compulsory
強力	powerful
強力膠	superglue
強加	to impose; to force upon
強勁	strong; powerful; robust
強勢	strong; powerful; (linguistics) emphatic
強化	to strengthen; to intensify
強吻	to forcibly kiss; to kiss without consent
強嘴	to talk back; to reply defiantly
強國	(ironically) mainland China (Taiwan & Hong Kong usage)
強壯	strong; sturdy; robust
強大	big and strong; formidable; powerful
強如	to be better than
強姦	to rape
強姦犯	rapist
強姦罪	rape
強子	hadron (particle physics)
強將手下無弱兵	there are no poor soldiers under a good general (idiom)
強幹	competent; capable
強度	strength; intensity
強弩之末	(lit.) an arrow at the end of its flight (idiom); (fig.) spent force
強弱	strong or weak; intensity; amount of force or pressure
強徵	to press into service; to impress; to commandeer
強心劑	cardiac stimulant
強心針	heart-strengthening shot; fig. a shot in the arm
強忍	to resist (with great difficulty)
強悍	tough; strong; formidable
強打	promotion (for a product); advertisement
強扭的瓜不甜	lit. if you have to use force to break a melon off the vine, it won't taste sweet (because it's only when the melon is ripe that it can be removed with just a slight twist) (idiom)
強拉	to drag (sb) along (to a place); to yank
強撐	to use all one's willpower (to do sth); to hang in there
強攻	(military) to take by storm
強敵	powerful enemy
強暴	violent; to rape
強有力	strong; forceful
強梁	ruffian; bully
強橫	surly and unreasoning; bullying; tyrannical
強檔	prime time
強權	power; might
強求	to insist on; to demand; to impose
強流	high current (e.g. electric)
強烈	strong; intense
強烈反對	to oppose strongly; violently opposed to
強生	(surname) Johnson; Johnson & Johnson (company)
強生公司	Johnson & Johnson
強盛	rich and powerful
強盜	to rob (with force); bandit; robber
強直性脊柱炎	ankylosing spondylitis; Bechterew’s disease
強相互作用	strong interaction (in particle physics); strong force
強硬	tough; unyielding; hard-line
強硬態度	unyielding attitude
強硬派	hardline faction; hawks
強硬立場	tough position
強腳樹鶯	(bird species of China) brown-flanked bush warbler (Horornis fortipes)
強行	to do sth by force; Taiwan pr. [qiang3 xing2]
強詞奪理	to twist words and force logic (idiom); sophistry
強調	to emphasize (a statement); to stress
強調色	accent color
強買強賣	to force sb to buy or sell; to trade using coercion
強身	to strengthen one's body; to keep fit; to build up one's health (through exercise, nutrition etc)
強身健體	to keep fit and healthy
強辯	to try to make one's case using false arguments
強辯到底	to argue endlessly; to try to have the last word
強迫	to compel; to force
強迫勞動	forced labor (as punishment in criminal case)
強迫性	compulsive; obsessive
強迫性儲物症	compulsive hoarding
強迫性性行為	sexual obsession
強迫症	obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
強迫觀念	compelling notion; obsession
強逼	to compel; to force
強酸	strong acid
強隊	a powerful team (sports)
強震	powerful earthquake; abbr. for 強烈地震|强烈地震
強韌	resilient; tough and strong
強音踏板	loud pedal (on piano); sustaining pedal
強項	key strength; strong suit; specialty
強顏歡笑	to pretend to look happy; to force oneself to smile
強風	strong breeze (meteorology)
強鹼	strong alkali
強龍不壓地頭蛇	lit. strong dragon cannot repress a snake (idiom); fig. a local gangster who is above the law
弸	strong bow; bowstring; to fill; full
弼	to assist
彀	to draw a bow to the full; the range of a bow and arrow
彀中	within the range of a bow and arrow; (fig.) under sb's control
彄	nock at end of bow; stretch
彆	to make sb change their ways, opinions etc
彆嘴	mouthful (awkward speech); tongue-twister
彆扭	awkward; difficult; uncomfortable
彈	to pluck (a string); to play (a string instrument); to spring or leap
彈丸	pellet
彈丸之地	(idiom) tiny speck of land; small area
彈冠相慶	lit. to flick dust off sb's cap (idiom); to celebrate an official appointment
彈出	to eject; to exit from; to pop up
彈力	elasticity; elastic force; spring
彈劾	to impeach (an official)
彈匣	magazine (for ammunition)
彈唱	to sing and play (plucked string instrument)
彈回	to rebound
彈坑	bomb crater; shell crater; mine crater
彈塗魚	mudskipper (amphibious fish)
彈壓	to suppress; to quell (a disturbance); repression
彈夾	ammunition clip; cartridge clip; magazine
彈奏	to play (musical instrument, esp. string)
彈子	slingshot pellet; playing marbles; billiards
彈子鎖	pin tumbler lock; spring lock
彈孔	bullet hole
彈射	to catapult; to launch; to eject (from a plane)
彈射座椅	ejection seat
彈射座艙	ejection capsule (cabin)
彈幕	(military) barrage
彈弓	catapult; slingshot
彈性	flexibility; elasticity
彈性形變	elastic deformation
彈性模量	modulus of elasticity; coefficient of restitution
彈指	to snap one's fingers; (fig.) in a flash; in an instant
彈指一揮間	in a flash (idiom)
彈指之間	(idiom) in a flash; instantly
彈撥	to pluck (a string)
彈撥樂	plucked string music
彈撥樂器	plucked string instrument
彈斥	accuse and criticize
彈殼	ammunition case
彈片	shrapnel; shell fragment
彈牙	al dente
彈珠	a marble (used in games)
彈珠機	pachinko machine
彈珠檯	pinball
彈球	to play marbles
彈球盤	pachinko
彈琴	to play or strum a lute or other stringed instrument
彈痕	bullet hole; shell hole
彈痕累累	bullet-riddled
彈盡援絕	out of ammunition and no hope of reinforcements (idiom); in desperate straits
彈盡糧絕	out of ammunition and no food left (idiom); in desperate straits
彈窗	pop-up window (computing)
彈簧	spring
彈簧刀	flick knife; switchblade; spring-loaded knife
彈簧墊圈	spring washer
彈簧秤	spring balance
彈簧鎖	spring lock
彈簧門	swing door
彈糾	to accuse; to impeach
彈舌	to cluck; to trill
彈花	to soften cotton fiber by fluffing
彈藥	ammunition
彈藥庫	ammunition dump
彈藥補給站	ammunition depot
彈詞	ballad tune in southern dialects, usually to sanxian 三弦 or pipa 琵琶 accompaniment
彈跳	to bounce; to jump; to leap
彈跳板	springboard
彈道	trajectory (of a projectile); ballistic curve
彈道導彈	ballistic missile
彈雨	hail of bullets
彈頭	warhead
彌	full; to fill; completely
彌勒	Maitreya, the future Bodhisattva, to come after Shakyamuni Buddha
彌勒佛	Maitreya
彌勒市	Mile, a county-level city in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
彌勒菩薩	Maitreya Bodhisattva
彌合	to cause a wound to close up and heal
彌天	filling the entire sky
彌天大謊	a pack of lies (idiom)
彌封	to sign across the seal (as a precaution against fraud)
彌撒	(Catholic) Mass
彌散	to dissipate everywhere (of light, sound, gas etc)
彌月	full moon
彌望	a full view
彌渡縣	Midu, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
彌滿	to be full
彌漫	to pervade; to fill the air; diffuse
彌留	seriously ill and about to die
彌留之際	on one's deathbed; at the point of death
彌縫	to cover up mistakes or crimes; to stitch up; to fix
彌蒙	impenetrable thick fog or smoke
彌補	to complement; to make up for a deficiency
彌賽亞	Messiah
彌足珍貴	extremely precious; valuable
彌迦書	Book of Micah
彌陀	Amitabha, the Buddha of the Western Paradise; abbr. for 阿彌陀佛|阿弥陀佛
彍	(literary) to draw one's bow to the full; Taiwan pr. [kuo4]
彎	to bend; bent; a bend; a turn (in a road etc)
彎嘴濱鷸	(bird species of China) curlew sandpiper (Calidris ferruginea)
彎子	bend; turn; curve
彎彎	Wan Wan (1981-), Taiwanese blogger and cartoonist
彎彎曲曲	curved; meandering; zigzagging
彎折	to bend
彎曲	to bend; to curve around; curved
彎曲度	curvature; camber
彎曲空間	curved space
彎月	crescent moon; crescent shape
彎月形透鏡	meniscus lens
彎液面	meniscus (physics)
彎男	gay guy
彎管麵	elbow pasta
彎腰	to stoop
彎腰駝背	slouch; stoop; poor posture
彎角	corner; bend; curve
彎路	winding road; roundabout route; detour
彎道	winding road; road curve
彎道超車	to overtake on a bend (driving)
彐	pig snout (Kangxi radical 58)
彔	to carve wood
彖	to foretell the future using the trigrams of the Book of Changes 易經|易经
彖辭	to interpret the divinatory trigrams
彗	broom
彗星	comet
彗核	comet nucleus
彘	swine
彙	class; collection
彙報	to report; to give an account of; report
彙整	to collect and organize (papers etc); to archive (data)
彙注	annotated collection
彙算	to collect data and square up; to settle accounts
彙總	to collect and summarize; to aggregate (data, reports etc)
彙總表	summary table
彙集	to collect; to compile; to converge
彝	(archaic) wine vessel; (archaic) sacrificial vessel
彝劇	Yi opera
彝器	sacrificial vessel
彝族	Yi ethnic group
彝族年	Yi New Year
彝良縣	Yiliang, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
彡	"bristle" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 59), occurring in 彪, 影, 形 etc
形	to appear; to look; form
形上	metaphysics
形似	similar in shape and appearance
形制	form; shape; structure
形勝	(of a location) strategic; advantageous
形勢	circumstances; situation; terrain
形勢嚴峻	in grave difficulties; the situation is grim
形參	(computing) formal parameter (abbr. for 形式參數|形式参数[xing2 shi4 can1 shu4])
形同	tantamount to; to be like
形同虛設	to exist in name only; empty shell; useless (idiom)
形同陌路	to be estranged
形單影隻	(idiom) lonely soul; solitary
形婚	sham marriage, esp. a marriage between a gay man and a lesbian arranged in response to parental expectations of a conventional marriage (abbr. for 形式婚姻[xing2 shi4 hun1 yin1])
形容	to describe; (literary) countenance; appearance
形容詞	adjective
形容詞短語	adjectival phrase
形容辭	adjective
形式	outer appearance; form; shape
形式主義	formalism (in philosophy, art, or literary theory)
形式化	formalization; formalized
形式發票	pro forma invoice
形形色色	all kinds of; all sorts of; every (different) kind of
形影不離	inseparable (as form and shadow)
形影相弔	with only body and shadow to comfort each other (idiom)
形影相隨	(lit.) body and shadow follow each other (idiom); (fig.) inseparable
形意拳	Xingyiquan (Chinese martial art)
形態	shape; form; pattern
形態學	morphology (in biology or linguistics)
形態發生素	morphogen
形成	to form; to take shape
形成層	vascular cambium (layer of tissue responsible for growth inside wood)
形於色	to show one's feelings; to show it in one's face
形旁	semantic component of a phono-semantic character (e.g. component 刂[dao1] in 刻[ke4])
形核	nucleation
形狀	form; shape
形神	body and soul; physical and spiritual
形符	semantic component of a phono-semantic character (e.g. component 刂[dao1] in 刻[ke4])
形而上學	metaphysics
形聲	ideogram plus phonetic (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters)
形聲字	phono-semantic compound character
形色	shape and color; appearance; facial expression
形譯	derivation of a Chinese loanword from Japanese by using the same characters (or variants) but applying Chinese pronunciation (e.g. 場合|场合[chang3 he2], derived from Japanese 場合, pronounced "ba'ai")
形變	deformation; bending
形象	image; form; figure
形象代言人	(brand or organization) ambassador; face (of a brand or company)
形象大使	person who represents an organization and enhances its image; an ambassador
形象藝術	visual arts
形貌	appearance
形質	form; structure; design
形跡	manner; bearing; trace
形骸	the human body; skeleton
形體	figure; physique; form and structure
彤	surname Tong
彥	accomplished; elegant
彧	accomplished; elegant
彩	(bright) color; variety; applause
彩䴉	(bird species of China) glossy ibis (Plegadis falcinellus)
彩信	multimedia messaging service (MMS) (telecommunications)
彩券	lottery ticket
彩印	color printing; abbr. for 彩色印刷[cai3 se4 yin4 shua1]
彩卷	color film; abbr. for 彩色膠卷|彩色胶卷; lottery ticket
彩塑	painted clay figure
彩妝	makeup; cosmetics
彩帶	colored ribbon; streamer
彩彈	paintball
彩排	dress rehearsal; to have a dress rehearsal
彩擴	to enlarge color photos; color film processing
彩旗	colored flag
彩民	lottery player
彩泥	playdough
彩畫	color painting
彩票	lottery ticket
彩禮	betrothal gift; bride price
彩練	colored ribbon
彩繪	painted; colored painted-on designs
彩聲	applause; cheering
彩色	color; multicolored
彩色筆	colored pencil (or crayon or marker etc); (Tw) color marker
彩色電視	color television
彩虹	rainbow
彩虹吸蜜鸚鵡	(bird species of China) rainbow lorikeet (Trichoglossus moluccanus)
彩虹屁	(neologism c. 2017) (slang) over-the-top praise
彩虹族群	the LGBT+ community
彩虹旗	rainbow flag, aka LGBT pride flag
彩虹蜂虎	(bird species of China) rainbow bee-eater (Merops ornatus)
彩虹行動	the two mass scuttling operations carried out by the German navy: the scuttling of the German fleet at Scapa Flow in 1919 and Operation Regenbogen, the scuttling of U-boats in 1945
彩虹鸚鵡	(bird species of China) coconut lorikeet (Trichoglossus haematodus)
彩蚌	painted shell; painting on shell
彩蛋	painted eggshell; Easter egg
彩衣	colored clothes; motley attire
彩超	color Doppler imaging (CDI) (medicine)
彩車	float (in a parade)
彩鈴	(telephony) ringback tone
彩雲	rosy clouds
彩電	color television (abbr. for 彩色電視|彩色电视[cai3 se4 dian4 shi4])
彩霞	clouds tinged with sunset hues
彩頭	good omen; good luck (in business etc)
彩鷸	(bird species of China) greater painted-snipe (Rostratula benghalensis)
彩鸛	(bird species of China) painted stork (Mycteria leucocephala)
彪	(literary) tiger stripes; (by extension) ornate and brightly colored; (by synecdoche) young tiger; (fig.) strong; stalwart
彪休	angry; wrathful
彪個子	tall and strong physique
彪壯	tall and husky; hefty
彪子	(dialect) idiot; simpleton
彪形	husky; burly
彪形大漢	(idiom) burly chap; husky fellow
彪悍	tough as nails; formidable; kick-ass
彪炳	(literary) (of deeds, accomplishments etc) to shine brightly (in the annals of history etc)
彪炳千古	to shine through the ages (idiom)
彪煥	brilliant and shining; outstanding and elegant
彪蒙	to develop the mind
彪馬	Puma (brand)
彬	urbane; well-bred; cultivated
彬州市	Binzhou, a county-level city in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
彬彬	refined, gentle, and elegant
彬彬君子	refined gentleman
彬彬有禮	refined and courteous; urbane
彬蔚	erudite and refined
彬馬那	Pyinmana, town in central Myanmar
彭	surname Peng
彭亨	Pahang province of Malaysia
彭佳嶼	Pengjia Island, administered as part of Chilung or Keelung 基隆[Ji1 long2], Taiwan
彭勃	Peng Bo
彭博	Bloomberg (name)
彭博新聞社	Bloomberg News
彭博社	Bloomberg News
彭博通訊社	Bloomberg L.P., financial software services, news and data company
彭定康	Chris Patten (1944-), last British Governor of Hong Kong 1992-1997
彭山區	Pengshan, a district of Meishan City 眉山市[Mei2 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
彭州市	Pengzhou, a county-level city in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
彭德懷	Peng Dehuai (1898-1974), top communist general, subsequently politician and politburo member, disgraced after attacking Mao's failed policies in 1959, and died after extensive persecution during the Cultural Revolution
彭斯	Mike Pence (1959-), US Republican politician, US vice president from 2017
彭水縣	Pengshui Miao and Tujia autonomous county in Qianjiang suburbs of Chongqing municipality
彭水苗族土家族自治縣	Pengshui Miao and Tujia Autonomous County in southeastern Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
彭湖	Penghu island county of Taiwan, off the coast of Kaohsiung
彭湖島	Penghu island county of Taiwan, off the coast of Kaohsiung
彭澤縣	Pengze, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
彭真	Peng Zhen (1902-1997), Chinese communist leader
彭祖	Peng Zu (legendary figure of Taoism who lived 800 years)
彭縣	Peng county in Sichuan
彭陽縣	Pengyang, a county in Guyuan City 固原市[Gu4 yuan2 Shi4], Ningxia
彭養鷗	Peng Yang'ou, late Qing novelist, author of Victims of Opium 黑籍冤魂[Hei1 ji2 Yuan1 hun2]
彭麗媛	Peng Liyuan (1962–), PRC folk music singer, wife of Xi Jinping 習近平|习近平[Xi2 Jin4 ping2]
彭麻麻	Mommy Peng, nickname for Peng Liyuan 彭麗媛|彭丽媛[Peng2 Li4 yuan2]
彰	clear; conspicuous; manifest
彰化	Zhanghua or Changhua city and county in west Taiwan
彰化市	Zhanghua or Changhua city in west Taiwan, capital of Changhua county
彰化縣	Zhanghua or Changhua County in west Taiwan
彰善癉惡	to distinguish good and evil (idiom); to uphold virtue and condemn evil
彰彰	obvious; manifest; clearly visible
彰明	to show clearly; to make public; obvious
彰明較著	obvious; clear for all to see
彰武縣	Zhangwu, a county in Fuxin City 阜新市[Fu4 xin1 Shi4], Liaoning
彰顯	to put on display (sth abstract); to draw attention to; conspicuous
影	picture; image; film
影像	image
影像會議	video conference
影像檔	image file
影像處理	image processing
影兒	shadow
影劇	film and theater; screen and stage
影劇院	cinema; movie theater
影印	photographic reproduction; photocopying; photo-offset
影印本	a photocopy
影印機	(Tw) photocopier
影后	movie queen; best actress award winner
影壁	(traditional Chinese architecture) spirit wall – a screen wall placed inside or outside a main gate, shielding the courtyard from view
影壇	moviedom; the world of movies; film circles
影子	shadow; reflection; (fig.) hint
影子內閣	shadow cabinet
影射	to refer obliquely to; to insinuate; innuendo
影射小說	roman à clef
影展	film festival; photography exhibition
影帝	(male) superstar of the silver screen; best actor award winner
影廳	theater (in a cinema)
影星	film star
影本	copy (of a document); book with model calligraphy for copying
影業	film industry
影片	a copy of a film; film; motion picture; movie; (Tw) video; video clip
影碟	DVD
影碟機	DVD player
影視	movies and television
影評	film review
影評人	film critic
影蹤	trace; sign
影迷	film enthusiast; movie fan
影院	cinema; movie theater
影集	photo album (CL:本[ben3]); (Tw) TV series
影音	(Tw) audio and video; audiovisual
影響	influence; effect; to influence
影響力	influence; impact
影響因子	impact factor (of an academic journal)
影響層面	impact; effect
影響面	reach of influence; affected area
彳	step with the left foot (Kangxi radical 60)
彳亍	(literary) to walk slowly
彴	bridge
彷	used in 彷徨[pang2 huang2] and 彷徉[pang2 yang2]
彷彿	to seem; as if; seemingly; alike; similar
彷徉	(literary) to roam about; to wander
彷徨	to pace back and forth, not knowing which way to turn; to hesitate; to waver
彸	restless, agitated
役	forced labor; corvée; obligatory task
役使	to put to work (servant or animal); to make use of for labor
役使動物	draft animals; beasts of burden
役男	males eligible for military service; draftee; abbr. for 役齡男子|役龄男子
役畜	draft animal; beast of burden
役齡	enlistment age
彼	that; those; (one) another
彼一時此一時	that was one thing, and this is another; times have changed
彼岸	the other shore; (Buddhism) paramita
彼岸花	red spider lily (Lycoris radiata); cluster amaryllis
彼得	Peter (name)
彼得前書	First Epistle of Peter (in New Testament)
彼得堡	Petersburg (place name); Saint Petersburg, Russia
彼得後書	Second Epistle of Peter (in New Testament)
彼得格勒	Petrograd (former name of Saint Petersburg 聖彼得堡|圣彼得堡[Sheng4 bi3 de2 bao3])
彼得潘	Peter Pan, the novel character
彼得羅維奇	Petrovich (name)
彼拉多	Pilate (Pontius Pilate in the Biblical passion story)
彼拉提斯	Pilates (physical fitness system) (Tw)
彼時	at that time
彼此	each other; one another
彼此彼此	(idiom) you and me both; that makes two of us
彼爾姆	Perm, Russian city in the Urals
彽	go to and fro
彿	used in 彷彿|仿佛[fang3 fu2]
彿雷澤爾	Frazer (name)
往	to go (in a direction); to; towards
往事	past events; former happenings
往事如風	the past is vanished like the wind; gone beyond recall
往事已矣	the past is dead (idiom)
往來	dealings; contacts; to go back and forth
往來帳戶	current account (in bank)
往例	(usual) practice of the past; precedent
往初	(literary) former times; in olden days
往前	(in) the past; ahead; forward; in the future
往古	in former times; in olden days
往外	out; outbound; departing
往屆	former sessions; former years
往常	usual; customary
往年	in former years; in previous years
往往	usually; in many cases; more often than not
往後	from now on; in the future; time to come
往復	to go and come back; to make a return trip
往復運動	backwards and forwards action (e.g. of piston or pump)
往復鋸	reciprocating saw
往心裡去	to take sth to heart; to take sth seriously
往日	former days; the past
往昔	the past
往時	past events; former times
往歲	in former years; in olden days
往死裡	(coll.) (to beat etc) to death
往泥裡踩	to belittle; to attack sb
往生	to be reborn; to live in paradise (Buddhism); to die
往程	outbound leg (of a bus or train journey etc)
往臉上抹黑	to bring shame to; to smear; to disgrace
往跡	past events; former times
往返	to go back and forth; to go to and fro; to do a round trip
往還	to contact; to have dealings (with sb)
征	journey; trip; expedition
征人	traveler (on a long journey); participant in an expedition
征伐	to go on or send a punitive expedition
征勦	to mount a punitive expedition against bandits
征地	to requisition land
征塵	the dust of a long journey
征夫	traveler; soldier on expedition; soldier taking part in battle
征帆	expedition ship
征彸	scared; badly frightened
征得	to obtain (permission etc)
征戍	garrison
征戰	campaign; expedition
征斂	to extort taxes
征斂無度	to extort taxes excessively
征旆	pennant used on expedition; war pennant
征服	to conquer; to subdue; to vanquish
征服者	conqueror
征用	to expropriate; to commandeer
征程	journey; expedition; voyage
征衣	traveler's clothing; military uniform
征衫	traveler's clothing; by extension, traveler
征討	to go on a punitive expedition
征途	long journey; trek; course of an expedition
征馬	horse capable of long expedition; army horse
征駕	horses and wagons for an expedition
徂	to go; to reach
待	to wait; to treat; to deal with
待乙妥	DEET (insect repellent) (loanword)
待人	to treat people (politely, harshly etc)
待人接物	(idiom) to interact with people
待價而沽	to sell only for a good price (idiom); to wait for a good offer
待命	to be on call; to be on standby
待字	(literary) (of a young lady) to be awaiting betrothal
待定	to await a decision; to be pending
待宵草	evening primrose
待崗	to wait for a job assignment; to be laid off; to be out of a job
待復	to be advised; awaiting an answer
待斃	to await death; to be a sitting duck
待會	wait a minute; stop a while
待會兒	in a moment; later; also pr. [dai1 hui3 r5] or [dai1 hui5 r5]
待業	to wait for employment; to be unemployed
待機	to wait for an opportunity; (electronic devices) standby
待產	(of an expectant mother) to be in labor
待用餐	suspended meal (Tw)
待續	to be continued
待考	under investigation; currently unknown
待要	to be about to
待見	(coll.) to like
待解	unresolved; awaiting solution
待詔	expert in a specialized field such as medicine, divination or chess, available on call to the emperor (in the Tang and Song dynasties)
待辦	pending; to be dealt with; (attributive) to-do
待辦事項列表	to-do list
待遇	treatment; pay; salary
徇	to give in to; to be swayed by (personal considerations etc)
徇情	to act out of personal considerations; to show partiality
徇私枉法	to bend the law in order to favor one's relatives or associates (idiom)
徇私舞弊	(idiom) to abuse one's position for personal gain
很	very; quite
很是	(formal) very; quite; deeply (usu. followed by a two-syllable adjective or verb)
徉	to walk back and forth
徊	used in 徘徊[pai2 huai2]
律	surname Lü
律動	rhythm; to move rhythmically
律呂	tuning; temperament
律師	lawyer
律師事務所	law firm
律所	law firm (abbr. for 律師事務所|律师事务所[lu : 4 shi1 shi4 wu4 suo3])
律政司	Department of Justice (Hong Kong)
律條	a law
律法	laws and decrees
律詩	regular verse
後	back; behind; rear
後世	later generations
後事	future events; and what happened next... (in fiction)
後人	later generation
後付	payment made afterwards; postpaid
後代	descendant; progeny; posterity; later ages; later generations
後任	successor; to take up a position subsequently as ...
後來	afterwards; later; newly arrived
後來居上	(idiom) see 後來者居上|后来者居上[hou4 lai2 zhe3 ju1 shang4]
後來者居上	the latecomers surpass their predecessors
後信號燈	car rear indicator
後備	reserve; backup
後備箱	trunk; boot (of a car)
後備軍	rearguard
後傳	sequel
後兒	the day after tomorrow
後加	postposition (grammar)
後勁	energy to continue after the initial phase of an activity
後勤	logistics
後勤學	military logistics
後半	latter half
後半場	second half (of sporting competition)
後半夜	second half of the night (from midnight to sunrise)
後半生	latter half of one's life
後半葉	latter half (of a decade, century etc)
後台	backstage area; behind-the-scenes supporter; (computing) back-end
後台進程	background process (computing)
後周	Later Zhou of the Five Dynasties (951-960), centered on Shandong and Hebei, with capital at Kaifeng 開封|开封[Kai1 feng1]
後味	aftertaste
後唐	Later Tang of the Five Dynasties (923-936)
後嗣	heir; descendant; posterity
後坐	recoil (of a firearm)
後坐力	recoil (of a gun); backlash; reactive force
後塵	lit. trailing dust; fig. sb's footsteps; course in life
後壁	Houbi, a district in Tainan 台南|台南[Tai2 nan2], Taiwan
後天	the day after tomorrow
後天性	acquired (characteristic etc)
後娘	stepmother (coll.)
後媽	(coll.) stepmother
後學	junior scholar or pupil in imperial China
後宮	harem; chambers of imperial concubines
後年	the year after next
後座	back seat; pillion
後庭	backyard; imperial harem; (slang) anus
後廚	the kitchen area of a restaurant
後影	rear view; figure seen from behind
後心	middle of the back
後怕	lingering fear; fear after the event; post-traumatic stress
後悔	to regret; to feel remorse
後悔不迭	too late for regrets
後悔莫及	too late for regrets (idiom); It is useless to repent after the event.
後患	future trouble
後患無窮	(idiom) there will be no end of trouble in the future
後感	afterthought; reflection after an event; a review (of a movie etc)
後感覺	after-sensation; after-impression
後手	defensive position (in chess); room for maneuver; a way of escape
後排	the back row (in a theater etc); the rear seats (in a vehicle)
後掩蔽	backward masking
後援	reinforcement; back-up; supporting force
後援會	support group (e.g. for an election candidate); fan club
後搖	post-rock (music genre)
後搖滾	post-rock (music genre)
後撤	to pull back (an army); to retreat
後擋板	backboard
後效	after-effect
後文	the text below; the following text
後方	the rear; far behind the front line
後日	the day after tomorrow; from hence; from now
後晉	Later Jin of the Five Dynasties (936-946)
後會有期	I'm sure we'll meet again some day. (idiom); Hope to see you again.
後會無期	(idiom) may never meet again; unlikely to meet again
後期	late stage; later period
後果	consequences; aftermath
後果自負	to take responsibility for the consequences of risky behavior; to have only oneself to blame if things go badly
後梁	Later Liang of the Five Dynasties (907-923)
後梢	stern (of a boat)
後殖民	postcolonial
後段	final part; rear; back end
後母	stepmother
後母臉	(Tw) (fig.) unpredictable, unstable weather
後海	Houhai, a lake and the area surrounding it in central Beijing
後涼	Later Liang of the Sixteen Kingdoms (386-403)
後漢	Later Han or Eastern Han dynasty (25-220)
後漢書	History of Eastern Han (later Han), third of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], composed by Fan Ye 范曄|范晔[Fan4 Ye4] in 445 during Song of the Southern Dynasties 南朝宋[Nan2 chao2 Song4], 120 scrolls
後照鏡	rearview mirror (Tw)
後燈	taillight
後燕	Later Yan of the Sixteen Kingdoms (384-409)
後父	stepfather
後爸	(coll.) stepfather
後現代主義	postmodernism
後生	young generation; youth; young man
後生動物	metazoa; the animal kingdom
後生可畏	the young will be redoubtable in the years to come (idiom)
後甲板	afterdeck
後盾	support; backing
後知後覺	to realize in hindsight; to realize belatedly; to be late to the party
後秦	Later Qin of the Sixteen Kingdoms (384-417)
後空翻	backward somersault; backflip
後端	backend (computing)
後綴	suffix (linguistics)
後緣	trailing edge (of airplane wing)
後繼有人	(idiom) to have qualified successors to carry on one's undertaking
後繼無人	to have no qualified successors to carry on one's undertaking
後續	follow-up; (dialect) to remarry
後置	to place after (e.g. in grammar); postposition
後置修飾語	postmodifier (grammar)
後置詞	postposition; suffix; word placed after
後翅	back wing (of insect)
後翻筋斗	backward somersault
後者	the latter
後肢	hind legs
後背	the back (human anatomy); the back part of sth
後腦	hindbrain; back of the head
後腦勺	back of the head
後腰	lower back; (sports) defensive midfielder
後腳	(one moment ...,) the next ...; trailing foot (in walking)
後花園	backyard garden
後蓋	back cover; shell (of crab etc)
後藤	Gotō (Japanese surname)
後衛	rear guard; backfield; fullback
後裔	descendant
後製	postproduction
後西遊記	one of three Ming dynasty sequels to Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记
後見之明	hindsight
後視鏡	rearview mirror
後記	epilogue; afterword
後設	meta- (prefix) (Tw)
後設認知	metacognition (Tw)
後設資料	metadata (Tw)
後診	postoperative examination
後話	something to be taken up later in speech or writing
後調	(perfumery) base note
後賬	undisclosed account; to settle matters later
後起之秀	(idiom) an up-and-coming youngster; new talent; a brilliant younger generation
後趙	Later Zhao of the Sixteen Kingdoms (319-350)
後跟	heel (part of a foot); heel (of a sock)
後跟提帶	backstrap (of a shoe)
後路	escape route; retreat route; communication lines to the rear
後車之鑒	lit. warning to the following cart (idiom); don't follow the track of an overturned cart
後車架	luggage carrier (bicycle)
後車軸	back axle (of car)
後輩	younger generation
後輪	rear wheel
後退	to recoil; to draw back; to fall back; to retreat
後送	evacuation (military)
後送醫院	evacuation hospital (military)
後進	less advanced; underdeveloped; lagging behind
後進先出	to come late and leave first; last in, first out (LIFO)
後遺症	(medicine) sequelae; residual effects; (fig.) repercussions
後邊	the back; the rear; the last bit; behind; near the end; at the back
後部	back section
後金	Later Jin dynasty (from 1616-)
後鉤	(dialect) unfinished business; trailing sound
後門	back door; back gate
後附	attachment; appendix; addendum
後院	rear court; back garden; backyard (also fig.)
後院起火	a conflict arises close to home (idiom)
後面	the back; the rear; the last bit; behind; near the end; at the back
後頭	behind; the back; the rear
後頸	nape
後顧之憂	fears of trouble in the rear (idiom); family worries (obstructing freedom of action)
後驗概率	posterior probability (statistics)
後魏	Wei of the Northern Dynasties 386-534
後鼻音	velar nasal
徐	slowly; gently
徐世昌	Xu Shichang (1855-1939), politician associated with the Northern Warlords, president of China in 1921
徐俊	Xu Jun (1962-), Chinese Chinese chess grandmaster
徐光啟	Xu Guangqi (1562-1633), agricultural scientist, astronomer, and mathematician in the Ming dynasty
徐克	Tsui Hark (1951-), Chinese movie director and producer
徐匡迪	Xu Kuangdi (1937-), PRC politician and former mayor of Shanghai
徐匯區	Xuhui district, central Shanghai
徐娘半老	middle-aged but still attractive woman; lady of a certain age
徐家匯	Xujiahui, an area in 徐匯區|徐汇区[Xu2 hui4 qu1], Xuhui district, central Shanghai
徐州市	Xuzhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
徐徐	slowly; gently
徐志摩	Xu Zhimo (1897-1931), writer and poet
徐悲鴻	Xu Beihong (1895-1953), famous European-trained painter and influential art teacher
徐星	Xu Xing (1969-), Chinese palaeontologist
徐步	to stroll; to walk slowly
徐水區	Xushui, a district of Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
徐渭	Xu Wei (1521-1593), Ming dynasty Chinese painter and author
徐熙媛	Barbie Hsu (1976–2025), Taiwanese entertainer, nicknamed 大S[Da4 S]
徐禎卿	Xu Zhenqing (1479-1511), Ming writer, one of Four great southern talents of the Ming 江南四大才子
徐福	Xu Fu (3rd century BC), Qin dynasty court necromancer
徐緩	slow; sluggish; lazily
徐繼畬	Xu Jiyu (1795–1873), Chinese geographer
徐聞縣	Xuwen, a county in Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
徐行	to walk slowly; to stroll
徐鉉	Xu Xuan (-991), author of commentaries on Shuowen Jiezi 說文解字註|说文解字注[Shuo1 wen2 Jie3 zi4 Zhu4]
徐霞客	Xu Xiake (1587-1641), Ming dynasty travel writer and geographer, author of Xu Xiake's Travel Diaries 徐霞客遊記|徐霞客游记[Xu2 Xia2 ke4 You2 ji4]
徐霞客遊記	Xu Xiake's Travel Diaries, a book of travel records by 徐霞客[Xu2 Xia2 ke4] on geology, geography, plants etc
徑	footpath; path; track; (fig.) a way; a means; directly; straight
徑向	radial (direction)
徑庭	completely different
徑情直遂	to achieve one's ambitions (idiom)
徑直	directly
徑自	without leave; without consulting anyone
徑賽	track events (athletics competition)
徑跡	track; trajectory; path
徑路	route; path
徑道	path; short-cut
徒	(bound form) disciple; apprentice; believer; (derog.) wrongdoer (as in 騙徒|骗徒[pian4 tu2] "swindler" or 叛徒[pan4 tu2] "traitor" etc)
徒兒	disciple; apprentice
徒具	to only have
徒刑	prison sentence
徒勞	futile
徒勞無功	to work to no avail (idiom)
徒勞無益	futile endeavor (idiom)
徒呼負負	to feel powerless and full of shame (idiom)
徒子徒孫	(idiom) disciples; followers
徒孫	grand-disciple; student's student
徒工	apprentice; trainee worker
徒弟	apprentice; disciple
徒手	with bare hands; unarmed; fighting hand-to-hand
徒手畫	freehand drawing
徒有其名	with an undeserved reputation (idiom); unwarranted fame
徒有虛名	with an undeserved reputation (idiom); unwarranted fame
徒步	to be on foot
徒步區	(Tw) car-free zone; pedestrian zone
徒步旅行	hiking
徒步路徑	hiking trail
徒然	in vain
徒裼	(archaic) barefooted and barebreasted
徒長	(of a plant) to experience excessive vegetative growth (at the expense of flowering or fruiting)
得	structural particle: used after a verb (or adjective as main verb), linking it to following phrase indicating effect, degree, possibility etc
得不償失	the gains do not make up for the losses (idiom)
得不到	cannot get; cannot obtain
得中	(as in an imperial examination) to be a successful candidate
得主	recipient (of an award); winner (in a competition)
得了	(emphatically, in rhetorical questions) possible
得令	to follow your orders; roger!; yessir!
得以	able to; so that sb can; enabling
得來	to come by; to obtain through some means
得來不易	hard to come by; not easily obtained; hard-won
得來速	drive-thru (loanword)
得便	at one's convenience; when one has time
得便宜賣乖	to have benefited from sth but pretend otherwise
得償所願	to have one's wish fulfilled
得克薩斯	Texas, US state (an official transliteration, but less commonly used than 德克薩斯|德克萨斯[De2 ke4 sa4 si1])
得出	to obtain (a result); to arrive at (a conclusion)
得分	to score a point (in a competition, test etc); score; rating; grade
得利	to benefit (from sth)
得到	to get; to obtain; to receive
得力	able; capable; competent
得勝	to triumph over an opponent
得勢	to win power; to get authority; to become dominant
得可以	(coll.) (stative verb suffix) very; awfully
得名	to get one's name; named (after sth)
得天獨厚	blessed by heaven (idiom); enjoying exceptional advantages
得失	gains and losses; success and failure; merits and demerits
得宜	proper; appropriate; suitable
得寵	to be a favorite; favor
得寸進尺	lit. win an inch, want a foot (idiom); fig. not satisfied with small gains
得很	(after an adjective) very
得心應手	lit. what the heart wishes, the hand accomplishes (idiom) skilled at the job
得悉	to learn about; to be informed
得意	proud of oneself; pleased with oneself; complacent
得意忘形	so pleased as to lose one's sense of measure; beside oneself with joy
得意洋洋	joyfully satisfied; to be immensely proud of oneself; proudly
得意門生	favorite pupil
得所應得	to get what one deserves
得手	to go smoothly; to come off; to succeed
得救	to be saved
得數	(math.) numerical answer; solution
得文	Devon (county of southwest England)
得梅因	Des Moines, capital of Iowa
得榮縣	Dêrong, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
得標	to win a bid; to win a trophy in a contest; (jokingly) to get an STD
得氣	"to obtain qi", the sensation of electrical tingling, numbness, soreness etc at the meridian where accupuncture needle is inserted
得法	(doing sth) in the right way; suitable; properly
得無	(literary) isn't it that...?
得獎	to win a prize
得瑟	(dialect) cocky; smug; to show off
得當	appropriate; suitable
得病	to fall ill; to contract a disease
得益	to derive benefit
得益於	to benefit from; thanks to
得直	(HK, Sg) (law) to have one's appeal allowed; to win an appeal
得看	(it) depends on ...
得知	to find out; to learn of
得票	vote-getting
得票率	percentage of votes obtained
得空	to have leisure time
得罪	to commit an offense; to violate the law; excuse me! (formal)
得而復失	to lose what one has just obtained (idiom)
得色	pleased with oneself
得著	to obtain
得虧	luckily; fortunately
得要	to need; must
得誌	to accomplish one's ambition; a dream come true; to enjoy success
得證	to verify; (math.) Q.E.D.
得起	(verb complement indicating ability to afford or bear the cost or consequences of doing sth)
得逞	to prevail; to have one's way; to get away with it
得過且過	satisfied just to get through (idiom); to muddle through
得道	to achieve the Dao; to become an immortal
得道多助	a just cause enjoys abundant support (idiom); those upholding justice will find help all around
得道多助，失道寡助	A just cause attracts much support, an unjust one finds little (idiom, from Mencius)
得隴望蜀	lit. covet Sichuan once Gansu has been seized; fig. endless greed
得饒人處且饒人	where it is possible to let people off, one should spare them (idiom); anyone can make mistakes, forgive them when possible
得體	appropriate to the occasion; fitting
得魚忘筌	lit. catch fish then forget the trap (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3]); fig. to take help for granted
徘	used in 徘徊[pai2 huai2]
徘徊	to pace back and forth; to dither; to hesitate
徙	(literary) to change one's residence
徜	sit cross-legged; walk back and forth
徜徉	to wander about unhurriedly; to linger; to loiter
從	from; through; via; (bound form) to follow; (bound form) to obey
從一而終	faithful unto death (i.e. Confucian ban on widow remarrying)
從不	never
從中	from among them; from it
從中作梗	(idiom) to deliberately create obstacles; to obstruct from behind the scenes; to throw a wrench in the works
從事	to go for; to engage in; to undertake
從井救人	to jump into a well to rescue sb else (idiom); fig. to help others at the risk to oneself
從今以後	from now on; henceforward
從何	whence?; where from?
從來	always; at all times; never (if used in negative sentence)
從來不	never
從來沒	have never; has never
從來沒有	there has never been; has never had; (before a verb) has never
從儉	economical; modest
從優	preferential treatment; most favored terms
從兄	older male second cousin
從先	(dialect) before; in the past; previously
從前	previously; formerly; once upon a time
從動	-driven (of mechanism, driven by a component); slave (wheel, pulley)
從化區	Conghua, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
從句	clause
從吏	minor official; to be an official
從命	to obey an order; to comply; to do sb's bidding
從善如流	readily following good advice (idiom); willing to accept other people's views
從善如登，從惡如崩	doing good is like a hard climb, doing evil is like an easy fall (idiom)
從嚴	strict; rigorous; severely
從天而降	(idiom) to fall from the sky
從子	paternal uncle's son; nephew
從容	to go easy; unhurried; calm
從容不迫	calm; unruffled
從實招來	to own up to the facts
從寬	lenient; leniently
從小	from childhood; from a young age
從屬	subordinate
從影	to make movies; to be a movie actor (or actress)
從從容容	unhurried; all in good time
從心所欲	whatever you like; to do as one pleases
從戎	to enlist; to be in the army
從政	to be engaged in politics (esp. as a government official)
從教	to work as a teacher
從早到晚	from morning till night; from dawn to dusk; all day long
從未	never
從業	to practice (a trade)
從業人員	employee; person employed in a trade or profession
從業者	people in the (aforementioned) industry; practitioner; industry professional
從此	from now on; since then; henceforth
從此往後	from here on
從母	maternal aunt
從江縣	Congjiang, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
從沒	never (in the past); never did
從父	paternal uncle
從犯	accessory to a crime; accomplice
從略	to omit (less important details etc)
從眾	to follow the crowd; to conform
從簡	to adopt a simplified approach; to keep things simple
從緩	not to hurry; to procrastinate; to postpone
從者	(literary) follower; attendant
從而	thus; thereby
從良	(of a slave or servant) to be given one's freedom
從藝	to work as an artist
從裡到外	from the inside to the outside; through and through; thoroughly
從諫如流	to follow admonition as natural flow (idiom); to accept criticism or correction (even from one's inferiors)
從警	to work as a police officer; to engage in police work
從軍	to enlist; to serve in the army
從輕	to be lenient (in sentencing)
從速	(to do sth) with dispatch; as soon as possible
從醫	to work as a doctor
從長計議	(idiom) to take one's time making a decision; to consider at length
從難從嚴	to impose demanding and strict conditions (esp. in training); to train under deliberately difficult and strict conditions
從零開始	to start from scratch
從頭	anew; from the start
從頭到尾	from start to finish; from head to tail; the whole (thing)
從頭到腳	from head to foot
徠	used in 招徠|招徕[zhao1 lai2]
御	(bound form) imperial; royal; (literary) to drive (a carriage)
御便當	(Tw) bento; lunch box
御史	imperial censor (formal title of a dynastic official)
御姐	(ACG) mature, assertive, and usu. sexy woman
御宅族	otaku, a Japanese term for people with obsessive interests such as anime, manga, and video games
御寶	imperial seal
御廚	imperial chef; imperial kitchen
御弟	emperor's young brother
御戎	(military) chariot driver (old)
御手	the emperor's hand
御批	imperial rescript
御用	for use by the emperor; imperial; (derog.) in the pay of the ruler
御用大律師	Queen's Counsel
御膳房	imperial kitchen
御賜	to be bestowed by the emperor
御酒	imperial wine; sacred wine
御醫	imperial physician
御飯糰	onigiri (Japanese-style riceball)
御駕親征	the emperor leads his troops into battle (idiom)
徨	used in 彷徨[pang2 huang2]
復	to go and return; to return; to resume
復交	to reopen diplomatic relations
復仇	to avenge; vengeance
復位	to restore sb or sth to its original position; to regain the throne
復信	to reply to a letter
復修	to restore (an ancient temple)
復健	(Tw) rehabilitation; rehabilitation therapy
復出	to come back out of retirement; to get involved again after having withdrawn
復分解反應	metathesis (chemistry)
復刻	to reprint (a work that has been out of print)
復原	to restore (sth) to (its) former condition; to recover from illness
復原乳	reconstituted milk
復古	to return to old ways (a Confucian aspiration); to turn back the clock
復古會	anti-Qing revolutionary party set up in 1904 under Cai Yuanpei 蔡元培[Cai4 Yuan2 pei2]
復合	(of people who were estranged) to be reconciled
復吸	to resume smoking (after giving up)
復命	to report on completion of a mission; debriefing
復員	to demobilize; demobilization
復姓	to revert to one's original surname
復婚	to remarry (the same person)
復學	to return to school (after an interruption); to resume one's studies
復審	to re-examine; to recheck
復崗	(of an employee) to return to one's job (e.g. after being temporarily stood down)
復工	to return to work (after a stoppage)
復市	(of a shop, market) to resume trading
復旦	Fudan University, Shanghai, abbr. for 復旦大學|复旦大学[Fu4 dan4 Da4 xue2]
復旦大學	Fudan University, Shanghai
復明	to regain one's eyesight; (astronomy) emersion
復映片	second-run movie
復會	to resume a meeting
復查	to check again; to re-examine
復核	to reconsider; to reexamine
復權	(finance) to adjust the price, volume etc of a security (typically to account for a stock split or after new shares are issued)
復歸	to return; to come back
復活	to revive; (lit. and fig.) to come back to life
復活節	Easter
復活節島	Easter Island
復活賽	repechage (supplementary qualifying round in sports)
復現	to reappear; to persist (in memory)
復理石	flysch (loanword)
復生	to be reborn; to recover; to come back to life
復甦	to recover (health, economic); to resuscitate; anabiosis
復發	to recur (of a disease); to reappear
復盤	(after completing a game of chess) to replay the game, analyzing the players' moves
復社	Fushe, late Ming political and cultural movement led by Zhang Pu 張溥|张溥[Zhang1 Pu3] and others, advocating the revival of ancient studies
復秤	to reweigh
復稱	to reweigh
復習	to review; revision
復聯	Avengers (comics)
復職	to resume a post
復興	to revive; to rejuvenate
復興區	Fuxing, a district of Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
復興時代	the Renaissance
復興門	Fuxingmen neighborhood of Beijing
復興黨	Baath Party
復舊	to restore old way; to return to the past
復萌	to germinate again
復蘇	to recover (health, economic); to resuscitate; anabiosis
復診	another visit to doctor; further diagnosis
復課	to resume classes
復議	to reconsider
復讀	to return to the same school and repeat a course from which one has already graduated, as a result of failing to get good enough results to progress to one's desired higher-level school
復讀生	student who repeats (a course, grade etc) at school
復轉	to demobilize; to transfer to other tasks (of troops)
復辟	to recover one's power or authority; restoration (of a past regime)
復返	to come back; to return
復陽	to test positive again (for COVID-19) after previously testing positive and then later, negative; to have a rebound positive test result
復駛	(of a public transportation route) to resume operating
循	(bound form) to follow; to act in accordance with
循分	to abide by one's duties
循化撒拉族自治縣	Xunhua Salar Autonomous County, in Haidong City 海東市|海东市[Hai3 dong1 Shi4], Qinghai
循序	in proper sequence
循序漸進	in sequence, step by step (idiom); to make steady progress incrementally
循循善誘	to guide patiently and systematically (idiom)
循環	to cycle; to circulate; circle
循環使用	recycle; to use in cyclic order
循環小數	recurring decimal
循環性	cyclical; cyclic; circulatory
循環節	recurring section of a rational decimal
循環系統	circulatory system
循環經濟	circular economy
循環論證	circular argument; logical error consisting of begging the question
循環賽	round-robin tournament
循著	to follow
循規蹈矩	to follow the compass and go with the set square (idiom); to follow the rules inflexibly
循道宗	Methodism
徬	irresolute
徭	compulsory service
徭役	forced labor; corvee
微	surname Wei; ancient Chinese state near present-day Chongqing
微不足道	(idiom) negligible; insignificant
微中子	(Tw) (particle physics) neutrino
微乎其微	a tiny bit; very little; next to nothing (idiom)
微信	Weixin or WeChat (instant messaging and social media app developed by Tencent 騰訊|腾讯[Teng2 xun4])
微光	glimmer
微克	microgram (μg)
微凹黃檀	cocobolo (Dalbergia retusa)
微分	(math.) differential (of a function); differential (equation etc)
微分學	differential calculus
微分幾何	differential geometry
微分幾何學	differential geometry
微分方程	(math.) differential equation
微創	(of surgery, treatment etc) minimally invasive
微創手術	minimally invasive surgery
微劈恩	(coll.) (loanword) VPN
微動脈	capillary artery
微動開關	microswitch
微升	microliter; to increase slightly
微博	Weibo (Chinese social media platform)
微博客	microblogging; microblog
微商	derivative (math.)
微單	mirrorless camera
微囊	(pharm.) microcapsule
微型	miniature; micro-; tiny
微型小說	flash fiction
微塵	dust; (Buddhism) minutest particle of matter
微妙	subtle
微孔膜	microporous membrane
微安	microampere
微安培	microampere
微小	minute (i.e. extremely small); infinitesimal
微山縣	Weishan, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
微弱	weak; faint; feeble
微徑	small path
微微	slight; faint; humble
微恙	slight illness; indisposition
微控制器	microcontroller unit (MCU)
微操	to micromanage
微擾	infinitesimal disturbance; perturbation (physics)
微擾展開	perturbative expansion (physics)
微擾論	perturbation theory
微整	abbr. for 微整形[wei1 zheng3 xing2]
微整形	non-surgical cosmetic procedure (injection of Botox, hyaluronic acid etc)
微明	twilight
微星	Micro-Star International (MSI), Taiwanese computer hardware company
微晶	microcrystal
微晶片	microchip
微服	(of a high-ranking official) to wear plain clothes in order to go about incognito
微服私訪	to mingle with the people incognito
微末	tiny; negligible
微機	micro (computer)
微機化	miniaturization; micro-miniaturization
微波	ripple; microwave
微波天線	microwave antenna
微波爐	microwave oven
微溶	slightly soluble
微漠	faint (almost inaudible or invisible)
微火	a low fire (for roasting)
微生物	microorganism
微生物學	microbiology
微生物學家	microbiologist
微睡眠	microsleep
微秒	microsecond, µs, 10^-6 s
微積分	calculus (branch of mathematics)
微積分學	calculus (branch of mathematics)
微笑	smile; to smile
微管	tubule; microtubule
微管蛋白	tubulin
微米	micron (one thousandth of a millimeter or 10^-6 meter)
微粒	speck; particle
微粒體	microsome
微細	microminiature (technology)
微細加工	microminiature technology
微絲	microfilament
微絲血管	capillary blood vessels
微縮	compact; micro-; miniature
微縮膠捲	microfilm
微聚焦	microfocus x-ray computed tomography (microCT)
微胖	slightly chubby; stoutish
微膠囊技術	microencapsulation
微臣	this small official; humble servant
微茫	hazy; blurred
微菌	microorganism
微薄	scanty; meager
微處理器	microprocessor
微處理機	microprocessor
微血管	capillary
微表情	microexpression
微觀	micro-; subatomic
微觀世界	the microscopic world; the realm of structures too small to be seen with the naked eye
微觀經濟	microeconomic
微觀經濟學	microeconomics
微言大義	subtle words with profound meaning (idiom)
微詞	veiled criticism
微調	fine tuning; trimming
微賤	humble; lowly
微距	(photography) (of a lens etc) macro; close-up
微軟	Microsoft Corporation
微軟公司	Microsoft Corporation
微辣	mildly spicy
微速攝影	time-lapse photography
微醺	tipsy
微量	a smidgen; minute; micro-
微量元素	trace element (chemistry)
微量白蛋白	microalbumin
微雕	a miniature (carving)
微電子	microelectronics
微電子學	microelectronics
微電腦	microcomputer
微靜脈	capillary vein
微風	breeze; light wind
微駝	stooping; hunched
徯	footpath; wait for
徯徑	path; way (method)
徵	4th note in the ancient Chinese pentatonic scale 五音[wu3 yin1], corresponding to sol
徵信	to examine the reliability; reliable; credit reporting
徵信社	(Tw) private investigator; credit bureau
徵候	sign; indication; symptom
徵傳	narrative of long journey; campaign record
徵兆	omen; sign (that sth is about to happen); warning sign
徵兵	to levy troops; recruitment
徵募	to conscript
徵友	to seek new friends through personal ads, dating apps etc
徵召	to enlist; to draft; to conscript
徵名責實	to seek out the real nature based on the name (idiom); to judge sth at face value
徵士	soldier (in battle)
徵婚	to look for a partner
徵實	levies in kind; grain tax
徵才	to recruit
徵收	to levy (a tax); to expropriate
徵文	to solicit articles, essays or pieces of literature (on a subject or in commemoration of an event)
徵求	to solicit; to seek; to request (opinions, feedback etc)
徵狀	symptom
徵發	a punitive expedition; a requisition
徵稅	to levy taxes
徵稿	to solicit contributions (to a publication)
徵聘	to invite job applications; to recruit
徵詢	to consult; to solicit the opinion of
徵調	to conscript; to second (personnel); to requisition (supplies etc)
徵象	sign; symptom
徵選	to call for entries and select the best
徵集	to collect; to recruit
德	Germany; German; abbr. for 德國|德国[De2 guo2]
德三	Nazi Germany; Third Reich (shorthand for 第三帝國|第三帝国[Di4 san1 Di4 guo2])
德不配位	one's moral standards are not in keeping with one's social status
德不配位，必有災殃	calamity will befall those whose moral standards are not in keeping with their social status
德仁	Naruhito (1960-), emperor of Japan from 2019
德令哈市	Delingha, a county-level city in Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
德保縣	Debao, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
德倫特	Drenthe (name); Drenthe (province in Netherlands)
德先生	"Mr Democracy", phrase used during the May 4th Movement 五四運動|五四运动[Wu3 si4 Yun4 dong4]
德克薩斯	Texas, US state
德勒巴克	Drøbak (city in Akershus, Norway)
德勒斯登	(Tw) Dresden, capital of Saxony, Germany
德勒茲	Gilles Deleuze (1925-1995), French philosopher
德勝門	Deshengmen (Beijing)
德化縣	Dehua, a county in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
德古拉	Dracula, novel by Bram Stoker
德古西加巴	Tegucigalpa, capital of Honduras (Tw)
德國	Germany
德國之聲	Deutsche Welle, German publicly-operated international broadcaster
德國人	German person or people
德國學術交流總署	German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) (Tw)
德國戰車	Rammstein (German metal band)
德國標準化學會	Deutsches Institut für Normung e.V. (DIN)
德國漢莎航空公司	Deutsche Lufthansa AG
德國結	pretzel
德國統一社會黨	Sozialistische Einheitspartei Deutschlands (Socialist Unity Party of Germany 1949-1990), the ruling communist party of the former German Democratic Republic (East Germany)
德國酸菜	sauerkraut
德國馬克	German mark
德國麻疹	German measles; rubella
德城區	Decheng, a district of Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
德士	(Singapore, Malaysia) taxi (loanword)
德安縣	De'an, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
德宏傣族景頗族自治州	Dehong Dai and Jingpo Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
德川	Tokugawa, Japanese shogunal clan (1603–1867)
德州	Texas (abbr. for 德克薩斯州|德克萨斯州[De2 ke4 sa4 si1 Zhou1])
德州儀器	Texas Instruments
德州市	Dezhou, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
德州撲克	Texas hold 'em (poker variant)
德干	Deccan (India)
德式	German-style
德彪西	Claude Debussy (1862–1918), French composer
德律風	(old) (loanword) telephone
德性	(coll.) revolting behavior
德惠市	Dehui, a county-level city in Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
德意志	Deutschland; Germany
德意志學術交流中心	German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD)
德意志民主共和國	German Democratic Republic (East Germany), 1945-1990
德意志聯邦共和國	Federal Republic of Germany
德意志銀行	Deutsche Bank
德慶縣	Deqing, a county in Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
德才	ethics and ability; virtuous and talented
德才兼備	(idiom) possessing both integrity and talent
德拉克羅瓦	Delacroix (painter)
德拉門	Drammen (city in Buskerud, Norway)
德政	benevolent government
德文	German (language)
德昂	De'ang ethnic group
德昂族	De'ang ethnic group
德昌縣	Dechang, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
德智體美	the aims of education: morality, intelligence, physical fitness and aesthetic sense
德格縣	Dêgê, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
德梅因	(HK) Des Moines, capital of Iowa
德欽縣	Deqin, a county in Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
德比	(sports) (loanword) derby (contest between local rivals)
德江縣	Dejiang, a county in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
德沃夏克	Antonin Dvořák (1841-1904), Bohemian composer, author of nine symphonies including the New World symphony
德治	rule by virtue; rule by setting virtuous example (Confucian ideal)
德法年鑒	Deutsch-Französische Jahrbücher (published once in 1844 by Karl Marx and bourgeois radical Arnold Ruge)
德清縣	Deqing, a county in Huzhou City 湖州市[Hu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
德烏帕	Sher Bahadur Deuba (1946-), former prime minister of Nepal
德爾塔	delta (Greek letter Δ, δ)
德牧	German shepherd
德班	Durban (city in South Africa)
德累斯頓	Dresden, capital of Saxony 薩克森州|萨克森州[Sa4 ke4 sen1 Zhou1], Germany
德維爾潘	(Dominique) de Villepin (French name)
德育	moral education
德育處	Moral Education Office (administrative department in Chinese schools responsible for overseeing student conduct, moral and ideological education, mental health, safety, aesthetic and patriotic education, extracurricular activities and coordination with families and student organizations)
德興市	Dexing, a county-level city in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
德航	Lufthansa (German airline)
德萊塞	Theodore Dreiser (1871–1945), American writer
德薄能鮮	little virtue and meager abilities (idiom); I'm a humble person and not much use at anything (Song writer Ouyang Xiu 歐陽修|欧阳修[Ou1 yang2 Xiu1])
德藝雙馨	(idiom) possessing both integrity and artistic skills
德行	morality and conduct; Taiwan pr. [de2 xing4]
德語	German (language)
德謨克拉西	democracy (loanword) (old)
德里	Delhi; New Delhi, capital of India; same as 新德里[Xin1 De2 li3]
德里達	Jacques Derrida (1930-2004), philosopher
德陽市	Deyang, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
德雷斯頓	Dresden, Germany
德雷爾	Dreyer (name)
德雷福斯	Dreyfus (name)
德雷福斯案件	Dreyfus affair 1894-1906, notorious political scandal in France case involving antisemitism and miscarriage of justice
德高望重	(idiom) a person of virtue and prestige; a person of good moral standing and reputation
德黑蘭	Tehran, capital of Iran
徹	thorough; penetrating; to pervade
徹夜	the whole night
徹夜不眠	to be sleepless all night
徹底	thorough; thoroughly; complete
徹悟	fully aware; to recognize fully
徹查	to investigate thoroughly
徹頭徹尾	lit. from head to tail (idiom); thoroughgoing; through and through
徹骨	to the bone; to the marrow; fig. to a very large degree
徻	a wide room
徼	boundary; to go around
徽	badge; emblem; insignia
徽劇	Anhui opera
徽墨	Anhui ink (known for its quality)
徽州區	Huizhou, a district of Huangshan City 黃山市|黄山市[Huang2 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
徽幟	banner
徽標	emblem; crest; logo
徽章	badge; emblem; insignia
徽縣	Hui County or Huixian, a county in Longnan City 隴南市|陇南市[Long3 nan2 Shi4], Gansu
徽菜	Anhui cuisine
徽號	title of honor; term of respect
徽記	crest; insignia
徽語	Huizhou dialect of Gan, spoken in southern parts of Anhui Province
徽調	Anhui opera
忀	to stroll; to ramble
心	heart; mind; intention
心上人	sweetheart; one's beloved
心下	in mind
心不在焉	absent-minded; preoccupied; inattentive
心中	central point; in one's thoughts; in one's heart
心中有數	to know what's going on
心中有鬼	to harbor ulterior motives (idiom)
心中無數	to have no idea; to be unsure
心亂如麻	one's thoughts in a whirl (idiom); confused; disconcerted; upset
心事	a load on one's mind; worry
心事重重	to have a lot on one's mind; to be laden with anxiety
心傷	broken-hearted
心儀	to admire
心切	eager; impatient; guileless
心力	mental and physical efforts
心力交瘁	to be both mentally and physically exhausted (idiom)
心力衰竭	heart failure
心勁	thoughts; what one has in one's heart
心動	heartbeat; heart rate
心動圖	cardiogram (medicine)
心動女	(coll.) the girl of your dreams
心包	pericardium
心口	pit of the stomach; solar plexus; words and thoughts
心口不一	heart and mouth at variance (idiom); keeping one's real intentions to oneself
心口如一	lit. heart and mouth as one (idiom); to say what you think
心土	subsoil
心地	character
心地善良	kindhearted; good-natured
心坎	bottom of one's heart
心塞	(coll.) to feel sick at heart; to feel stifled; to feel crushed
心境	mood; mental state; frame of mind
心如刀割	to feel as if having one's heart cut out (idiom)
心如刀絞	to feel a pain like a knife being twisted in one's heart (idiom)
心如止水	to be at peace with oneself
心存不滿	to be discontented; to be dissatisfied
心存懷疑	to be suspicious
心學	School of Mind
心安	at ease; reassured
心安理得	to have a clear conscience; to have no qualms about sth
心安神閑	with one's heart at ease and one's spirit at rest (idiom)
心室	ventricle (heart)
心室顫動	ventricular fibrillation (V-fib), abbr. to 室顫|室颤[shi4 chan4]
心宿二	Antares, the brightest star in Scorpio 天蠍座|天蝎座[Tian1 xie1 zuo4]
心寒	bitterly disappointed; frightened
心寬體胖	big-hearted and serene (idiom); contented and easygoing
心尖	bottom tip of the heart; fig. innermost feelings; coll. my darling
心平氣和	tranquil and even-tempered (idiom); calmly and without stress
心底	bottom of one's heart
心廣體胖	big-hearted and serene (idiom); contended and easygoing
心弦	heartstrings
心影兒	(Taiwan usage) child in need of help (orphaned, abandoned, abused etc)
心律	(medicine) heart rhythm
心律不整	arrhythmia
心律不齊	arrhythmia
心律失常	arrhythmia
心得	what one has learned (through experience, reading etc); knowledge
心得安	propranolol (beta-blocker used to treat high blood pressure)
心心念念	(idiom) to constantly think about; to be preoccupied with; to set one's heart on
心心相印	two hearts beat as one (idiom); a kindred spirit
心志	will; resolution; aspiration
心思	mind; thoughts; inclination
心急	anxious; impatient
心急吃不了熱豆腐	hasty men don't get to eat hot tofu (idiom)
心急如焚	(idiom) burning with anxiety; extremely anxious or impatient
心怦怦跳	The heart thumps wildly. (idiom)
心性	one's nature; temperament
心悅誠服	to submit cheerfully; to accept willingly (idiom)
心悸	palpitation
心情	mood; frame of mind
心想	to think to oneself; to think
心想事成	(idiom) to have one's wishes come true; wish you the best!
心意	intention; regard; kindly feelings
心愛	beloved
心慈手軟	(idiom) softhearted; merciful
心態	attitude (of the heart); state of one's psyche; way of thinking
心慌	to be flustered; (dialect) irregular heart-beat
心慌意亂	confused; rattled; flustered
心懷	to harbor (thoughts); to cherish; to entertain (illusions)
心懷忐忑	(idiom) anxious; uneasy; filled with trepidation
心戰	psychological warfare; (literary) to be inwardly terrorized
心房	heart (as the seat of emotions); cardiac atrium
心房顫動	atrial fibrillation
心扉	inner heart; soul
心拙口笨	dull-witted and tongue-tied
心搏	heartbeat; pulse
心摺	convinced; to admire from the heart; enchanted
心智	mind; mental faculties
心智圖	mind map
心曠神怡	lit. heart untroubled, spirit pleased (idiom); carefree and relaxed
心有靈犀一點通	hearts linked as one, just as the proverbial rhinoceros communicates emotion telepathically through his single horn (idiom); fig. two hearts beat as one
心有餘悸	to have lingering fears; trepidation remaining after a trauma (idiom)
心有餘而力不足	the will is there, but not the strength (idiom)
心有餘，力不足	The will is there, but not the strength (idiom, from Confucian Analects).
心服	to accept wholeheartedly; to embrace; to be won over
心服口服	(idiom) to accept wholeheartedly; to embrace; to be won over
心材	pith; central core (of tree)
心根	the innermost depths of one's heart; (Buddhism) manas (the mind)
心梗	myocardial infarction; heart attack (abbr. for 心肌梗死[xin1 ji1 geng3 si3])
心機	thinking; scheme
心毒	cruel; vicious
心毒手辣	vicious and ruthless
心氣	intention; motive; state of mind
心流	(psychology) flow; being "in the zone"
心滿意足	perfectly contented (idiom); perfectly satisfied
心潮澎湃	to be overwhelmed by emotions
心灰意冷	discouraged; downhearted
心灰意懶	discouraged; downhearted
心無二用	one cannot concentrate on two things at the same time
心無旁騖	completely focused; free of distractions
心焦	worried; anxious
心照	to have a tacit understanding
心照不宣	to have a tacit understanding
心煩	to feel agitated; to be troubled; to be annoyed
心煩意亂	lit. heart distracted, thoughts in turmoil (idiom); distraught with anxiety
心煩氣躁	agitated; annoyed (idiom)
心狠手辣	(idiom) vicious; merciless
心猿意馬	lit. heart like a frisky monkey, mind like a cantering horse (idiom); fig. capricious (derog.)
心率	heart rate
心理	psychology; mentality
心理作用	a perception that doesn't reflect reality
心理分析	psychoanalysis
心理學	psychology
心理學家	psychologist
心理建設	psychological preparation; mental conditioning
心理戰	psychological warfare; psychological operations; psyop
心理統計學	psychometrics; quantitative psychology
心理詞典	mental lexicon
心理防線	psychological defenses; mental resistance
心瓣	heart valve
心甘	to be willing; to be satisfied
心甘情願	delighted to (do sth, idiom); perfectly happy to do
心田	heart (one's innermost being)
心疑	to suspect
心疼	to love dearly; to feel sorry for sb; to regret
心病	anxiety; sore point; secret worry
心痛	to feel distressed about sth; heartache; cardiac pain
心目	mind
心目中	in one's eyes; in one's estimation
心直口快	frank and outspoken (idiom); straight speaking; to say what one thinks
心直嘴快	frank and outspoken; straight speaking; to say what one thinks
心眼	heart; intention; conscience
心眼兒	one's thoughts; mind; intention
心眼多	to have unfounded doubts; overconcerned
心眼大	magnanimous; considerate; thoughtful
心眼好	well-intentioned; good-natured; kindhearted
心知肚明	to be well aware
心硬	hard-hearted; unfeeling; callous
心碎	heartbroken; extreme depth of sorrow
心神	mind; state of mind; attention
心神不安	to feel ill at ease
心神不寧	to feel ill at ease
心神專註	to concentrate one's attention; to be fully focused
心神恍惚	perturbed (idiom)
心秀	not manifesting one's inner quality
心窄	narrow-minded; intolerant
心窩兒	one's breast; the pit of one's stomach
心竅	the mind; capacity for clear thinking
心算	mental arithmetic; to calculate in one's head; planning
心累	emotionally exhausted; drained
心細	careful; scrupulous
心細如塵	meticulous; very careful or attentive
心細如髮	(idiom) meticulous; very careful or attentive
心結	a matter that gnaws at one's mind; preoccupation; sore point; rancor
心絞痛	angina
心經	the Heart Sutra
心緒	state of mind; mood
心緒不佳	out of sorts; gloomy
心緒不寧	unquiet state of mind
心羨	to admire
心聲	heartfelt wish; inner voice; aspiration
心肌	myocardium
心肌梗塞	(Tw) myocardial infarction; heart attack
心肌梗死	myocardial infarction; heart attack
心肌炎	myocarditis
心肝	darling; (in negative sentences) heart; humanity
心肝寶貝	precious darling (often refers to one's child); sweetheart
心肺	the heart and lungs; cardiopulmonary
心肺復甦術	cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)
心胸	heart; mind; ambition
心胸狹窄	(idiom) narrow-minded; petty; ungenerous
心胸狹隘	narrow; petty-minded
心胸開闊	broad-minded; open-minded
心腸	heart; intention; one's inclination
心腹	trusted aide; confidant
心腹之患	lit. calamity within one's bosom (idiom); major trouble hidden within
心膽	courage
心膽俱裂	to be scared out of one's wits (idiom)
心臟	heart
心臟搭橋手術	coronary bypass operation
心臟收縮壓	systolic blood pressure
心臟疾患	heart disease
心臟病	heart disease
心臟病發作	heart attack; to have a heart attack
心臟舒張壓	diastolic blood pressure
心臟雜音	heart murmur
心臟驟停	cardiac arrest
心花怒放	to burst with joy (idiom); to be over the moon; to be elated
心葉椴	small-leaf linden (Tilia cordata)
心蕩神馳	to be infatuated with
心虛	lacking in confidence; diffident; to have a guilty conscience
心血	heart's blood; expenditure (for some project); meticulous care
心血來潮	to be prompted by a sudden impulse; carried away by a whim
心血管	(anatomy) heart and blood vessels; cardiovascular
心血管疾病	cardiovascular disease
心術	designs; schemes; intentions
心裡	chest; heart; mind
心裡有數	to know the score (idiom); to be well aware of the situation
心裡有譜	to have a plan in mind
心裡有鬼	to have secret motives; to have a guilty conscience
心裡癢癢	to feel a strong urge (to do sth)
心裡美蘿蔔	Chinese roseheart radish (shinrimei radish), green on the outside, purple-red on the inside, a favorite Beijing vegetable
心裡話	(to express one's) true feelings; what is on one's mind; secret mind
心計	scheming; shrewdness
心許	to consent tacitly; unspoken approval
心說	(coll.) to think to oneself
心跡	true motive; true feelings
心路	scheme; artifice; tolerance
心跳	heartbeat; pulse
心跳過緩	bradycardia
心軟	to be softhearted; to be tenderhearted; to be kindhearted
心軸	central axis; spindle
心輪	anāhata or anahata, the heart chakra 查克拉, residing in the chest
心道	(literary) to think to oneself
心酸	to feel sad
心醉	enchanted; fascinated; charmed
心醉神迷	ecstatic; enraptured
心重	overanxious; neurotic
心錨	(psychology) emotional anchor; a mental cue used to evoke a specific emotional state
心防	guardedness; wariness; mental defenses
心電圖	electrocardiogram (ECG)
心電感應	telepathy
心靈	bright; smart; quick-witted
心靈上	spiritual
心靈感應	telepathy
心靈手巧	capable; clever; dexterous
心靈雞湯	(often used disparagingly) feel-good motivational story or quote (from the Chinese translation of the title of the 1993 self-help bestseller "Chicken Soup for the Soul")
心靜	tranquil; calm
心靜自然涼	a calm heart keeps you cool (idiom)
心音	sound of the heart; heartbeat
心領	I appreciate your kindness (conventional reply to turn down an offer)
心領神會	to understand tacitly (idiom); to know intuitively
心頭	one's heart; one's mind
心頭好	favorite; something preferred over others
心頭肉	the person one loves the most; one's most treasured possession
心願	cherished desire; dream; craving
心願單	wish list
心馳神往	one's thoughts fly to a longed-for place or person; to long for
心驚	fearful; apprehensive
心驚肉跳	lit. heart alarmed, body leaping (idiom); fear and trepidation in the face of disaster
心驚膽戰	lit. heart alarmed, trembling in fear (idiom); prostrate with fear
心高氣傲	proud and arrogant
心魔	inner demons; psychological obstacle or fixation
忄	Kangxi radical 61 (心) as a vertical side element
必	certainly; must; will
必不可少	absolutely necessary; indispensable; essential
必修	(of an academic course) required; compulsory
必修課	required course; compulsory course
必備	essential
必勝	to be certain of victory; to be bound to prevail
必勝客	Pizza Hut
必和必拓	BHP Billiton (Anglo-Australian mining corporation)
必定	to be bound to; to be sure to
必將	inevitably
必得	must; have to
必應	Bing (search engine)
必有重謝	(we) will be very grateful (if ...)
必死無疑	will die for sure; to be a goner
必殺技	(gaming or wrestling) finishing move; finisher
必然	inevitable; certain; necessity
必然王國	realm of necessity (philosophy)
必然結果	inevitable outcome; inescapable consequence
必經	unavoidable; the only (road, entrance etc)
必經之路	(idiom) the road one must follow; the only way
必要	necessary; essential; indispensable
必要性	necessity
必要條件	requirement; necessary condition (math)
必需	to need; to require; essential
必需品	necessity; essential (thing)
必須	to have to; must; compulsory
忉	grieved
忌	to be jealous of; fear; dread
忌口	abstain from certain food (as when ill); avoid certain foods
忌妒	to be jealous of; to envy
忌恨	hate (due to envy etc)
忌憚	to be afraid of the consequences; restraining fear
忌日	anniversary of a death; inauspicious day
忌煙	to quit smoking
忌羨	to envy
忌諱	taboo; to avoid as taboo; to abstain from
忌辰	anniversary of a death
忌食	(formal) to avoid (certain foods)
忍	to bear; to endure; to tolerate
忍不住	cannot help; unable to bear
忍俊	smiling
忍俊不禁	cannot help laughing; unable to restrain a smile
忍冬	honeysuckle (Lonicera japonica)
忍受	to bear; to endure
忍得住	to refrain; to be able to endure it
忍心	to have the heart to do sth; to steel oneself to a task
忍恥	to endure humiliation
忍氣吞聲	to submit to humiliation (idiom); to suffer in silence
忍無可忍	more than one can bear (idiom); at the end of one's patience
忍痛	to suffer; fig. reluctantly
忍痛割愛	to resign oneself to part with what one treasures
忍者	ninja
忍者神龜	Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, US comic book series, first appeared in 1984, also films, video games etc
忍者龜	Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (Tw)
忍耐	to endure; to put up with; to exercise patience
忍耐力	patience; fortitude
忍讓	to exercise forbearance; patient and accommodating
忍辱偷生	to bear humiliation to save one's skin (idiom)
忍辱求全	to endure humiliation to preserve unity
忍辱負重	to endure humiliation as part of an important mission (idiom); to suffer in silence
忍飢挨餓	starving; famished
忐	used in 忐忑[tan3 te4]
忐忑	apprehensive; on edge
忐忑不安	(idiom) anxious; in turmoil
忑	used in 忐忑[tan3 te4]
忒	(dialect) too; very; also pr. [tui1]
忕	extravagant; luxurious
忖	to ponder; to speculate; to consider
忖度	to speculate; to surmise; to wonder whether
忖思	to reckon; to consider; to ponder
忖量	to turn things over in one's mind; to conjecture; to guess
志	aspiration; ambition; the will
志不在此	to have one's ambitions elsewhere (idiom)
志丹縣	Zhidan, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
志同道合	(idiom) to be devoted to a common cause; to be like-minded
志向	ambition; goal; ideal
志在四方	to aspire to travel far and make one's mark (idiom)
志士	person committed to a noble cause or ideal
志士仁人	gentleman aspiring to benevolence (idiom); people with lofty ideals
志工	(Tw) a volunteer
志得意滿	fully content with one's achievements (idiom); complacent
志怪	to write about mysterious or supernatural things
志怪小說	tales of the supernatural (genre of fiction)
志氣	ambition; resolve; backbone
志留系	Silurian system (geology)
志留紀	Silurian (geological period 440-417m years ago)
志賀氏菌病	shigellosis; bacillary dysentery
志趣	inclination; interest
志願	aspiration; ambition; to volunteer
志願兵	volunteer soldier
志願者	volunteer
志願軍	volunteer army
志高氣揚	high-spirited and smug
忘	to forget; to overlook; to neglect
忘不了	cannot forget
忘乎所以	(idiom) to get carried away; to lose one's sense of proportion
忘八旦	turtle's egg (highly offensive when directed at sb)
忘八蛋	turtle's egg (highly offensive when directed at sb)
忘卻	(literary) to put out of one's mind; to forget
忘年之交	(idiom) friends with a significant age gap
忘年交	friends with a significant age gap
忘年戀	romantic relationship with a significant age gap
忘性	forgetfulness
忘恩	to be ungrateful
忘恩負義	to forget favors and violate justice (idiom); ingratitude to a friend
忘情	unmoved; indifferent; unruffled by sentiment
忘憂草	daylily (Hemerocallis fulva)
忘懷	to forget
忘我	selflessness; altruism
忘掉	to forget
忘本	to forget one's roots
忘機	free of worldly concerns; above the fray; at peace with the world
忘記	to forget
忘詞	(of a singer, actor etc) to forget one's lines
忘餐	to forget one's meals
忙	busy; hurriedly; to hurry
忙不迭	hurriedly; in haste
忙不過來	to have more work than one can deal with; to have one's hands full
忙中有失	rushed work leads to errors (idiom)
忙中有錯	rushed work leads to errors (idiom)
忙乎	to be busy (colloquial)
忙亂	rushed and muddled
忙忙叨叨	in a busy and hasty manner
忙於	busy with
忙活	to be really busy; pressing business
忙碌	busy; bustling
忙著	to be occupied with (doing sth)
忙裡偷閑	(idiom) to snatch a moment of leisure in the midst of a busy schedule
忙進忙出	very busy
忙音	busy signal (telephony)
忝	to shame
忞	ancient variant of 暋[min3]
忠	loyal; devoted; faithful
忠信	faithful and honest; loyal and sincere
忠勇	loyal and brave
忠厚	honest and considerate
忠君愛國	(idiom) to be faithful to the ruler and love one's country
忠告	to give sb a word of advice; advice; counsel; a wise word
忠實	faithful
忠心	good faith; devotion; loyalty
忠心耿耿	loyal and devoted (idiom); faithful and true
忠恕	loyalty and consideration for others; magnanimity (ideal virtues in Confucianism)
忠於	to be loyal to
忠清	Chungcheong Province of Joseon Korea, now divided into North Chungcheong province 忠清北道[Zhong1 qing1 bei3 dao4] and South Chungcheong province 忠清南道[Zhong1 qing1 nan2 dao4] of South Korea
忠清北道	North Chungcheong Province, South Korea, capital Cheongju 清州市
忠清南道	South Chungcheong Province, South Korea, capital Daejeon 大田[Da4 tian2]
忠清道	Chungcheong Province of Joseon Korea, now divided into North Chungcheong province 忠清北道[Zhong1 qing1 bei3 dao4] and South Chungcheong province 忠清南道[Zhong1 qing1 nan2 dao4] of South Korea
忠烈	sacrifice oneself for one's country; martyr
忠縣	Zhong County or Zhongxian, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
忠義	loyal and righteous; fealty; loyalty
忠臣	faithful official
忠言	sincere advice; heartfelt exhortation
忠言逆耳	loyal advice jars on the ears (idiom)
忠誠	devoted; loyal; fidelity
忠貞	loyal and dependable
忠貞不渝	unswerving in one's loyalty (idiom); faithful and constant
忡	grieved; distressed; sad
忤	disobedient; unfilial
忤逆	disobedient to parents
忪	used in 怔忪[zheng1 zhong1]
快	rapid; quick; speed
快中子	fast neutrons
快件	an express consignment (of goods, luggage etc); express mail service
快信	letter sent by express mail
快充	fast charging; to fast charge (a device)
快刀斬亂麻	lit. quick sword cuts through tangled hemp (idiom); decisive action in a complex situation
快刀斷亂麻	lit. quick sword cuts through tangled hemp (idiom); decisive action in a complex situation
快取	(computing) cache (loanword) (Tw)
快可立	Quickly, tapioca milk tea franchise
快嘴	unable to keep one's thoughts to oneself; blabbermouth
快報	bulletin board
快意	pleased; elated
快感	pleasure; thrill; delight
快感中心	pleasure center
快慢	speed
快慰	to feel pleased
快手	Kuaishou, Chinese social video sharing app
快捷	quick; fast; nimble
快捷方式	(computer) shortcut
快捷鍵	(computer) shortcut key; hotkey
快攻	fast break; quick attack (ball sports)
快時尚	fast fashion
快板	kuaiban (traditional Chinese rhythmic storytelling accompanied by bamboo clappers)
快板兒	clapper talk; patter song (in opera) with clapperboard accompaniment
快樂	happy; joyful
快樂大本營	Happy Camp (PRC TV series)
快步	quick step
快步流星	to walk quickly; striding quickly
快步跑	to trot
快活	happy; cheerful
快消	fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) (abbr. for 快速消費品|快速消费品[kuai4 su4 xiao1 fei4 pin3])
快消品	fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) (abbr. for 快速消費品|快速消费品[kuai4 su4 xiao1 fei4 pin3])
快測	rapid testing; (esp.) rapid antigen testing
快炒店	(Tw) low-budget eatery
快照	(photography) snapshot; (computing) snapshot; cached copy
快煮壺	electric kettle (Tw)
快熟麵	instant noodles
快班	advanced stream (in school); express (train, bus etc)
快當	quick; rapid
快碳	fast carbs; high-GI carbohydrates
快篩	rapid diagnostic test (RDT), abbr. for 快速篩檢|快速筛检[kuai4 su4 shai1 jian3]
快船	Los Angeles Clippers (NBA team)
快艇	speedboat; motor launch
快行道	fast lane; express lane
快要	nearly at the point of (doing sth); about to (do sth)
快訊	newsflash
快車	express (train, bus etc)
快車道	fast lane
快轉	fast-forward
快退	fast-rewind (media player)
快速	fast; high-speed; rapid
快速以太網絡	Fast Ethernet
快速動眼期	REM sleep
快速篩檢	rapid diagnostic test (RDT), abbr. to 快篩|快筛[kuai4 shai1]
快速記憶法	mnemotechnic method
快速診斷測試	rapid diagnostic test (RDT)
快進	fast-forward (media player)
快遞	express delivery
快遞員	package delivery person; courier
快錢	quick buck
快鍋	pressure cooker (Tw)
快門	(photography) shutter
快閃	to depart as quick as a flash; flash mob
快閃存儲器	(computing) flash memory
快閃族	flash mobbers
快閃記憶體	(computing) flash memory
快閃記憶體盤	(computing) flash drive; thumb drive
快閃黨	flash mobbers
快餐	fast food; snack; quick meal
快餐交友	speed dating
快餐店	fast food shop
快餐部	snack bar; buffet
快馬加鞭	to spur the horse to full speed (idiom); to go as fast as possible
快點	to do sth more quickly; Hurry up!; Get a move on!
忭	(literary) happy; delighted
忮	(literary) (bound form) jealous
忱	sincerity; honesty
念	to read; to study (a subject); to attend (a school)
念佛	to pray to Buddha; to chant the names of Buddha
念力	psychokinesis; telekinesis
念叨	to talk about often; to reminisce about; to keep repeating
念咒	to chant a magic spell; to recite incantations
念學位	to study for a degree; to take a degree course
念念不忘	to keep in mind constantly (idiom)
念念有詞	to mumble; to mutter to oneself
念想	to miss (the presence of); to cherish the memory of
念想兒	(coll.) keepsake; memento
念日	memorial day; commemoration day
念書	to read; to study; to attend school
念珠	prayer beads; rosary; rosary beads
念珠菌症	(medicine) candidiasis; thrush
念經	to recite or chant Buddhist scripture
念舊	to remember old friends; to cherish old friendships
念誦	to read out; to recite; to remember sb (while talking about sth else)
念頭	thought; idea; intention
忸	used in 忸怩[niu3 ni2]
忸忸怩怩	timid; bashful
忸怩	bashful; blushing
忺	(literary) to want; to desire; (literary) pleased; gratified; happy
忻	happy
忻城縣	Xincheng, a county in Laibin City 來賓市|来宾市[Lai2 bin1 Shi4], Guangxi
忻州市	Xinzhou, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
忻府區	Xinfu, a district of Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
忽	to neglect; to overlook; to ignore
忽上忽下	to fluctuate sharply
忽冷忽熱	now hot, now cold; (of one's mood, affection etc) to alternate
忽哨	to whistle (with fingers in one's mouth); nowadays written 呼哨
忽地	suddenly
忽布	hops
忽微	minuscule quantity; minor matter
忽必烈	Khubilai Khan (1215-1294), grandson of Genghis Khan 成吉思汗, first Yuan dynasty emperor, reigned 1260-1294
忽忽	fleeting (of quick passage time); in a flash; distracted manner
忽忽不樂	disappointed and unhappy; dispirited
忽忽悠悠	indifferent to the passing of time; careless
忽悠	to rock; to sway; to flicker (e.g. of lights reflected on water)
忽然	suddenly; all of a sudden
忽略	to neglect; to overlook; to ignore
忽略不計	to disregard (sth seen as negligible)
忽而	suddenly; now (..., now...)
忽聞	to hear suddenly; to learn of sth unexpectedly
忽視	to neglect; to overlook; to disregard; to ignore
忽閃	to glitter; to gleam; to sparkle
忽隱忽現	intermittent; now you see it, now you don't
忽高忽低	alternately soaring and plunging
忽魯謨斯	old Chinese name for Hormuz; now called 霍爾木茲|霍尔木兹
忿	anger; indignation; hatred
忿懣	indignant; furious
怊	(literary) sad; sorrowful; disappointed; frustrated
怍	ashamed
怎	how
怎一個愁字了得	(last line of the poem 聲聲慢|声声慢[Sheng1 sheng1 Man4] by Song poet Li Qingzhao 李清照[Li3 Qing1 zhao4])
怎奈	(often used in early vernacular) but alas; however
怎樣	how; what kind
怎生	how; why
怎的	what for; why; how
怎能	how can?
怎麼	how?; what?; why?
怎麼了	What's up?; What's going on?; What happened?
怎麼回事	what's the matter?; what's going on?; how could that be?
怎麼得了	how can this be?; what's to be done?; what an awful mess!
怎麼搞的	How did it happen?; What's wrong?; What went wrong?
怎麼樣	how?; how about?; how was it?
怎麼著	what?; how?; how about?
怎麼說呢	Why is that?; How come?
怎麼辦	what's to be done
怏	discontented
怐	used in 怐愗[kou4 mao4]
怐愗	(literary) stupid; ignorant
怒	anger; fury; flourishing
怒不可遏	unable to restrain one's anger (idiom); in a towering rage
怒吼	to bellow; to rave; to snarl
怒喝	to shout intimidatingly; to bellow (in anger)
怒容	angry look
怒容滿面	scowling in anger; rage written across one's face
怒形於色	to betray anger (idiom); fury written across one's face
怒恨	extreme hatred; animosity; spite
怒懟	(Internet slang) to chastise; to angrily denounce
怒放	in full bloom
怒斥	to angrily rebuke; to indignantly denounce
怒族	Nu ethnic group
怒氣	anger
怒氣攻心	(TCM) sudden strong emotions attacking the heart, leading to faints etc
怒氣沖沖	(idiom) spitting anger; in a rage
怒江	Nujiang river of south Tibet and northwest Yunnan, the upper reaches of Salween river 薩爾溫江|萨尔温江, forming border of Myanmar and Thailand
怒江傈僳族自治州	Nujiang Lisu Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
怒江大峽谷	the Grand Canyon of the Nujiang river in Tibet and Yunnan
怒沖沖	furiously
怒潮	(tidal) bore; raging tide
怒火	rage; fury; hot anger
怒目	with glaring eyes; glowering
怒目切齒	to gnash one's teeth in anger
怒目相向	to glower at each other (idiom)
怒目而視	(idiom) to glare at
怒罵	to verbally abuse
怒色	angry look; glare; scowl
怒視	to glower (at sb); to cast an angry look
怒髮衝冠	lit. hair stands up in anger and tips off one's hat (idiom)
怔	(dialect) to stare blankly; to be in a daze; Taiwan pr. [leng4]
怔住	dumbfounded; stunned
怔忡	(of the heart) palpitating with fear; palpitation (Chinese medicine)
怔忪	frightened; scared; terrified
怔怔	in a daze
怔神兒	lost in thought; in a daze
怕	to be afraid; to fear; to dread
怕事	timid; to be afraid of getting involved
怕死	to be scared of dying
怕死鬼	afraid to die (contemptuous term)
怕生	fear of strangers; to be afraid of strangers (of small children)
怕癢	to be ticklish
怕羞	coy; shy; bashful
怕老婆	henpecked; to be under one's wife's thumb
怖	terror; terrified; afraid
怗	peaceful; quiet
怙	to rely on; father (formal)
怙恃	to rely on; father and mother (classical)
怙惡不悛	to keep doing evil without a sense of repentance (idiom)
怚	dull, stupid, suspicious
怛	distressed; alarmed; shocked
怛羅斯之戰	Battle of Talas (751), military engagement in the valley of the Talas River 塔拉斯河[Ta3 la1 si1 He2], in which Arab forces defeated Tang armies, marking the end of Tang westward expansion
思	to think; to consider
思來想去	(idiom) to mull sth over
思前想後	to consider past cause and future effect (idiom); to think over the past and future
思南縣	Sinan, a county in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
思嘉麗	Scarlett (name); also written 斯嘉麗|斯嘉丽[Si1 jia1 li4]
思密達	(slang) (used at the end of a sentence to mimic Korean speech) (loanword from Korean verb ending "seumnida")
思忖	to ponder; to reckon; to turn sth over in one's mind
思念	to think of; to long for; to miss
思情	to miss; to long for
思想	thought; thinking; idea
思想交流	exchange of ideas
思想包袱	sth weighing on one's mind
思想史	intellectual history
思想家	thinker
思想庫	think tank
思想意識	consciousness
思想頑鈍	blunt thinking; apathy
思想體系	system of thought; ideology
思慕	to cherish the memory of sb; to think of with respect
思慮	to think sth through; to consider carefully
思戀	to miss; to long for
思政	ideological and political education (abbr. for 思想政治教育[si1 xiang3 zheng4 zhi4 jiao4 yu4]) (state-directed education in China aimed at promoting Marxism, patriotism and socialist values, particularly in schools and universities – also, more broadly, ideological guidance in workplaces, media and public discourse)
思明區	Siming, a district of Xiamen City 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 Shi4], Fujian
思春	same as 懷春|怀春[huai2 chun1]
思春期	age when girls start to develop feelings for the opposite sex; puberty
思樂冰	Slurpee (drink)
思潮	tide of thought; way of thinking characteristic of a historical period
思潮起伏	thoughts surging in one's mind (idiom)
思科	Cisco Systems Company
思索	to think deeply; to ponder
思維	(line of) thought; thinking
思維地圖	mind map
思維導圖	mind map
思維敏捷	quick-witted; agile of mind
思緒	train of thought; emotional state; mood
思考	to reflect on; to ponder over
思茅區	Simao, a district of Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
思茅市	Simao city in Yunnan, renamed Pu'er city 普洱市 in 2007
思親	to remember one's parents; to feel homesick for one's relatives
思覺失調	psychosis
思謀	to consider; to turn over in one's mind
思議	to imagine; to comprehend (usu. used in the negative, as in 不可思議|不可思议[bu4 ke3 si1 yi4] "inconceivable")
思路	line of thought; way of thinking
思路敏捷	quick-witted
思辨	to think critically; (philosophy) to reason; to speculate
思過	to reflect on one's past errors
思鄉	to be homesick
思鄉病	homesickness
思量	to reckon; to consider; to turn over in one's mind
怞	to grieve; sorrowful
怠	idle; lazy; negligent
怠工	to slacken off in one's work; to go slow (as a form of strike)
怠忽	to neglect
怠惰	idleness
怠慢	to slight; to neglect
怠速	(automotive) idling; idle speed
怡	harmony; pleased
怡人	delightful
怡保	Ipoh city in Malaysia, capital of Sultanate of Perak on Malayan peninsula
怡保市	Ipoh city in Malaysia, capital of Sultanate of Perak on Malayan peninsula
怡悅	pleasant; happy
怡然	happy; joyful
怡然自得	happy and content (idiom)
怡顏悅色	happy countenance
急	urgent; pressing; rapid
急不可待	(idiom) impatient; eager to (do sth); unable to wait any longer
急不可耐	unable to wait
急中生智	quick witted in an emergency; able to react resourcefully
急事	urgent matter
急人之難	anxious to help others resolve difficulties (idiom)
急促	urgent; hurried and brief; rushing
急先鋒	daring vanguard; pioneer; leading figure
急公好義	public-spirited
急切	eager; impatient
急剎車	emergency braking
急劇	rapid; sudden
急功近利	seeking instant benefit (idiom); shortsighted vision, looking only for fast return
急務	urgent task; pressing matter
急匆匆	hurried; hasty
急吼吼	impatient
急嘴急舌	lit. quick mouth and quick tongue
急如星火	lit. as hurried as a shooting star (idiom); requiring immediate action
急婚族	(coll.) those who are in a rush to get married
急忙	hastily
急急忙忙	hurriedly
急性	acute
急性人	impetuous person; excitable person
急性子	impetuous person; excitable person
急性照射	acute exposure
急性病	acute illness; fig. impetuous; impatient
急性腸炎	acute enteritis
急性闌尾炎	acute appendicitis (medicine)
急拍拍	hurried; impatient; rushed
急救	to give emergency treatment; first aid
急救包	first-aid kit
急救站	emergency desk; first aid office
急救箱	first-aid kit
急於	eager to; in a hurry to
急於求成	anxious for quick results (idiom); to demand instant success
急智	quick witted; able to think fast in an emergency
急板	(music) presto
急欲	to be keen to ...; to be anxious to ...
急流	torrent
急火	brisk heat (cooking); (TCM) internal heat generated by anxiety
急用	to need sth urgently; urgently required
急症	acute disease; medical emergency
急眼	to be anxious; to get angry with sb
急著	urgently
急行軍	rapid advance; forced march
急襲	sudden attack
急要	urgent
急診	to give or receive urgent medical treatment
急診室	emergency room
急赤白臉	to worry oneself sick; to fret
急躁	irritable; irascible; impetuous
急轉	to whirl; to turn around quickly
急轉彎	to make a sudden turn
急轉直下	to develop rapidly after abrupt turn (idiom); dramatic change
急迫	urgent; pressing; imperative
急速	hurried; at a great speed; rapid (development)
急遽	rapid; sudden
急難	misfortune; crisis; grave danger
急需	to urgently need; urgent need
急馳	to speed along
急驟	rapid
怦	(onom.) the thumping of one's heart
怦怦	thumping sound (onom.); to be eager and anxious (to do sth)
怦然	with a sudden shock, bang etc
怦然心動	(idiom) to feel a rush of excitement
性	nature; character; property
性事	sex
性交	sexual intercourse
性交易	prostitution; commercial sex; the sex trade
性交高潮	orgasm
性伴	sexual partner
性伴侶	sex partner
性侵	to sexually assault
性侵害	sexual assault (law)
性侵犯	to assault sexually; to molest
性偏好	sexual preference
性健康	sexual health
性傳播	sexually transmitted
性價比	cost-performance ratio
性冷感	frigidity (lack of libido)
性冷淡	frigidity
性別	sex; gender
性別歧視	sex discrimination; sexism
性別比	sex ratio
性別角色	gender role
性別認同障礙	gender identity disorder (GID); gender dysphoria
性取向	sexual orientation
性同一性障礙	gender identity disorder
性同意	sexual consent
性向	aptitude; disposition; inclination
性命	life
性命攸關	vitally important; a matter of life and death
性善	the theory of Mencius that people are by nature good
性器	sex organ
性器官	sexual organ
性器期	phallic stage (psychology)
性地	innate quality; natural disposition
性夥伴	sexual partner
性奴	sex slave
性奴隸	sex slave
性媾	sexual intercourse
性子	temper
性學	sexology
性工作	employment as sex worker; prostitution
性工作者	sex worker
性幻想	sexual fantasy; to fantasize sexually about (sb)
性張力	sexual tension
性徵	sexual characteristic
性快感	sexual pleasure
性急	impatient
性情	nature; temperament
性惡論	"human nature is evil", theory advocated by Xunzi 荀子[Xun2 zi3]
性愛	sex; lovemaking
性感	sex appeal; eroticism; sexuality
性慾	sexual desire; lust
性慾高潮	orgasm
性成熟	sexual maturity
性指向	sexual orientation
性接觸	sexual contact
性教育	sex education
性暗示	sexual innuendo; indirect sexual suggestion in words, gestures, images etc
性服務	sexual service; prostitution
性服務產業	sex service industry
性格	nature; disposition; temperament
性格不合	incompatibility of temperament
性樂	sexual pleasure; orgasm
性滿足	sexual gratification
性激素	sex hormone
性物戀	(sexual) fetishism
性狀	nature (i.e. properties of sth); character
性玩物	sex object; sexual plaything
性生活	sex life
性產業	the sex industry
性疾病	sexually transmitted disease; venereal disease
性病	sexually transmitted disease; venereal disease
性癖	sexual fetish
性癮	sexual addiction
性短訊	sexually explicit text message; sext
性禁忌	sexual taboo
性福	(neologism c. 2008) (slang) (coined as a pun on 幸福[xing4 fu2]) satisfied with one's sex life
性細胞	sexual cell; germline cell; gamete
性能	function; performance; behavior
性腺	gonad; sex gland
性蕾期	phallic stage (psychology)
性虐待	sexual abuse
性行	sexual activity
性行為	sexual behavior
性衝動	sex drive
性變態	sexual perversion; sexual pervert
性賄賂	to sexually bribe
性質	nature; characteristic
性質命題	categorical proposition (logic)
性轉	(slang) to be genderswapped (abbr. for 性別轉換|性别转换[xing4 bie2 zhuan3 huan4])
性關係	sexual relations; sexual contact; intercourse
性騷擾	sexual harassment
性高潮	orgasm; climax
怨	to blame; (bound form) resentment; hatred; grudge
怨不得	cannot blame; no wonder
怨偶	an unhappy couple (formal writing)
怨命	to complain about one's fate; to bemoan one's lot
怨嘆	to complain; to grumble
怨天尤人	(idiom) to blame the gods and accuse others
怨天載道	lit. cries of complaint fill the roads (idiom); complaints rise all around
怨女	senior palace maiden; unmarried woman
怨尤	resentment
怨念	grudge; pent-up resentment; consuming bitterness
怨忿	resentment
怨恨	to resent; to harbor a grudge against; to loathe
怨憤	resentment and indignation
怨懟	resentment; grudge
怨敵	enemy; foe
怨毒	bitter resentment; rancor
怨氣	grievance; resentment; complaint
怨氣沖天	(idiom) extremely resentful
怨聲	wail; lament; voice of complaint
怨聲載道	lit. cries of complaint fill the roads (idiom); complaints rise all around
怨艾	to resent; to regret; grudge
怨言	complaint
怩	used in 忸怩[niu3 ni2]
怪	odd; strange; uncanny; (bound form) monster; supernatural being
怪不得	no wonder!; so that's why!
怪事	strange thing; curious occurrence
怪人	strange person; eccentric
怪傑	monstre sacré (i.e. artist famous for being deliberately preposterous)
怪僻	eccentric; peculiar
怪叔叔	queer uncle, referring to a young to middle-aged male pedophile (Internet slang)
怪味	strange odor
怪咖	(Tw) (slang) oddball; eccentric person; weirdo
怪圈	vicious circle; (abnormal) phenomenon
怪念頭	eccentric notion; strange whim
怪手	(Tw) excavator; backhoe
怪才	eccentric genius; quirky genius
怪模怪樣	outlandish; strange-looking; grotesque
怪樣	odd expression; funny looks; queer face
怪氣	weird (temperament)
怪物	monster; freak; eccentric person
怪獸	rare animal; mythical animal; monster
怪異	monstrous; strange; strange phenomenon
怪癖	eccentricity; peculiarity; strange hobby
怪相	grotesque visage; grimace
怪祕	strange; mystic
怪罪	to blame
怪聲怪氣	strange voice; affected manner of speaking
怪胎	freak; abnormal embryo; fetus with deformity
怪腔怪調	(idiom) strange accent; odd manner of speaking or singing
怪訝	astonished
怪話	ridiculous talk; preposterous remark
怪誕	freak; weird
怪誕不經	uncanny; unbelievable; ridiculous
怪象	strange phenomenon
怪道	no wonder!
怪里怪氣	eccentric; odd-looking; peculiar
怫	anxious
怫然	angry; enraged; Taiwan pr. [fei4 ran2]
怭	frivolous; rude
怯	timid; cowardly; rustic
怯場	to have stage fright
怯子	person with country accent; rustic; country bumpkin
怯弱	timid; weak
怯意	timidity; nervousness; sense of apprehension
怯懦	timid; cowardly; chicken-hearted
怯生	shy
怯生生	shy
怯聲怯氣	to speak in a frightened voice that lacks courage (idiom)
怲	sad; mournful
怵	fearful; timid; to fear
怵惕	to be alarmed; to be apprehensive
怵懼	fear; dread; panic
怵然	fearful
怵目驚心	lit. shocks the eye, astonishes the heart (idiom); shocking
怸	obscure variant of 悉[xi1]
怹	he; she; (courteous, as opposed to 他[ta1])
恁	to think; this; which?
恁般	(old) this way; this much
恁麼	(old) this way; what?
恂	sincere
恃	(bound form) to rely on; (literary) one's mother
恃強欺弱	to use one's strength to mistreat people (idiom); to bully
恃才傲物	(idiom) to be inordinately proud of one's ability; to be conceited and contemptuous
恆	permanent; constant; fixed
恆久	constant; persistent; long-lasting
恆力	constant force
恆加速度	constant acceleration
恆壓二極管	Zener diode
恆大	China Evergrande Group, or simply Evergrande, Chinese property developer founded in 1996 (abbr. for 恒大集團|恒大集团[Heng2 da4 Ji2 tuan2])
恆定	constant
恆山	Mt Heng in Shanxi, northern mountain of the Five Sacred Mountains 五嶽|五岳[Wu3 yue4]
恆山區	Hengshan, a district of Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
恆常	constant; constantly
恆心	perseverance
恆星	(fixed) star
恆星年	the sidereal year (astronomy)
恆星系	stellar system; galaxy
恆星際	interstellar; between the fixed stars
恆春半島	Hengchun Peninsula in Pingtung County 屏東縣|屏东县[Ping2 dong1 Xian4], the southernmost point of Taiwan
恆河	Ganges River
恆河沙數	countless as the grains of sand in the Ganges (idiom)
恆河猴	rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta); rhesus monkey
恆溫	constant temperature
恆溫器	thermostat
恆牙	(dentistry) permanent tooth
恆生	Hang Seng (the name of a bank in Hong Kong and of the stock market index the bank established)
恆生中資企業指數	Hang Seng China-Affiliated Corporations Index (HSCCI)
恆等	identity ≡ (math., logic); identical
恆等式	identity (math.)
恆速率	constant velocity
恇	to fear; apprehensive
恉	purport
恌	frivolous
恍	(bound form) in a hazy state of mind
恍如	to be as if...; to be rather like...
恍如隔世	like a thing of the previous generation; as if it were a lifetime ago
恍惚	absent-minded; distracted; dazzled
恍然	suddenly (perceive); confused; vague; distracted
恍然大悟	(idiom) to suddenly realize; to suddenly see the light
恍然醒悟	a sudden realization; to realize sth in a flash
恍神	to be off in another world; to suffer a lapse in concentration
恍若	as if; as though; rather like
恏	to desire
恐	afraid; frightened; to fear
恐共	to fear the Communists
恐同	to be homophobic
恐同症	homophobia
恐嚇	to threaten; to menace
恐婚	to have an aversion to getting married
恐怕	fear; to dread; I'm afraid that...
恐怖	terrible; frightful; frightening
恐怖主義	terrorism
恐怖主義者	terrorist
恐怖分子	terrorist
恐怖片	horror movie
恐怖症	phobia
恐怖組織	terrorist organization
恐怖襲擊	terrorist attack
恐怖電影	horror movie
恐慌	panic; panicky; panic-stricken
恐慌發作	panic attack
恐懼	to be frightened; fear; dread
恐懼症	phobia
恐攻	(Tw) terrorist attack (abbr. for 恐怖攻擊|恐怖攻击[kong3 bu4 gong1 ji1])
恐曠症	agoraphobia
恐水病	rabies
恐水症	rabies; hydrophobia
恐狼	dire wolf (Canis dirus)
恐艾	(slang) to have an obsessive fear of contracting HIV AIDS
恐血症	blood phobia; hemophobia
恐襲	terrorist attack (abbr. for 恐怖襲擊|恐怖袭击[kong3 bu4 xi2 ji1])
恐韓症	Koreaphobia
恐高	to be afraid of heights
恐高症	acrophobia; fear of heights
恐鳥	monstrous bird; moa (genus Dinornithidae, extinct bird of New Zealand)
恐龍	dinosaur (CL:頭|头[tou2],隻|只[zhi1]); (old) (slang) ugly person
恐龍妹	ugly girl (slang)
恐龍總目	Dinosauria, superorder within class Sauropsida containing dinosaurs and birds
恐龍類	dinosaurs
恒生指數	Hang Seng Index (Hong Kong stock market index)
恒生銀行	Hang Seng Bank, Hong Kong
恓	troubled; vexed
恓惶	busy and restless; unhappy
恔	cheerful
恕	to forgive
恕我冒昧	if I may be so bold
恕罪	please forgive me
恘	meaning uncertain, related to 戾[li4], to violate
恙	sickness
恙蟲病	(medicine) scrub typhus; bush typhus; tsutsugamushi disease
恚	rage
恛	disordered; indistinct doubtful; blurred
恝	indifferent
恞	happy; joyous
恟	scared, nervous
恢	(bound form) vast; expansive; (bound form) to restore; to recover
恢宏	vast; broad; generous; to develop; to enhance
恢復	to reinstate; to resume; to restore
恢復原狀	to restore sth to its original state
恢復名譽	to rehabilitate; to regain one's good name
恢復常態	to return to normal
恢復期	convalescence
恢恢	(literary) vast; extensive
恢恢有餘	lit. to have an abundance of space; room to maneuver (idiom)
恣	to abandon restraint; to do as one pleases; comfortable (dialect)
恣情	to indulge in something to one's heart's content; wanton or willful
恣意	without restraint; unbridled; reckless
恣意妄為	to behave unscrupulously
恣欲	to follow lustful desires
恣睢	(literary) reckless; unbridled; self-indulgent
恣肆	unrestrained; unbridled; free and unrestrained (style)
恣行無忌	to behave recklessly
恤	anxiety; sympathy; to sympathize
恤匱	to relieve the distressed
恤嫠	to give relief to widows
恤衫	shirt (loanword)
恥	(bound form) shame; humiliation; disgrace
恥毛	pubic hair
恥笑	to sneer at sb; to ridicule
恥罵	to abuse; to mock
恥辱	disgrace; shame; humiliation
恥骨	pubis; pubic bone
恧	ashamed
恨	to hate; to regret
恨不得	wishing one could do sth; to hate to be unable; itching to do sth
恨之入骨	to hate sb to the bone (idiom)
恨事	a matter for regret or resentment
恨人	provoking; exasperating
恨國	to hate one's country
恨天高	(slang) sky-high heels; ultra-high-heeled shoes
恨嫁	(of a woman) to yearn to get married
恨惡	to despise
恨意	rancor; hatred; bitterness
恨海難填	sea of hatred is hard to fill (idiom); irreconcilable division
恨透	to hate bitterly
恨鐵不成鋼	lit. disappointed that iron does not turn into steel (idiom)
恩	favor; grace; kindness
恩人	a benefactor; a person who has significantly helped sb else
恩仇	debt of gratitude coupled with duty to avenge
恩俸	pension granted as a favor
恩公	benefactor
恩典	favor; grace
恩准	approved by His (or Her) Majesty
恩同再造	(idiom) a great life-saving favor
恩培多克勒	Empedocles (490-430 BC), Greek Sicilian pre-Socratic philosopher
恩威兼施	to employ both kindness and severity (idiom)
恩客	patron of a prostitute or courtesan (traditional euphemistic term, still used in modern writing)
恩寵	special favor from a ruler; Emperor's generosity towards a favorite
恩將仇報	to bite the hand that feeds one (idiom)
恩師	(greatly respected) teacher
恩平市	Enping, a county-level city in Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
恩德	benevolence; favor
恩怨	gratitude and grudges; resentment; grudges
恩情	kindness; affection; grace
恩惠	favor; grace
恩愛	loving affection (in a couple); conjugal love
恩慈	bestowed kindness
恩斯赫德	Enschede, city in the Netherlands
恩斷義絕	to split up; to break all ties
恩施土家族苗族自治州	Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture, in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
恩施市	Enshi, a county-level city in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
恩施縣	Enshi county in southwest Hubei
恩格斯	Friedrich Engels (1820-1895), socialist philosopher and one of the founder of Marxism
恩格爾	Engel (name); Ernst Engel (1821-1896), German statistician
恩比天大	to be as kind and benevolent as heaven (idiom)
恩澤	favor from an emperor or high official
恩眄	kind patronage
恩義	feelings of gratitude and loyalty
恩膏	rich favor
恩賈梅納	N'Djamena, capital of Chad
恩賜	to bestow (favors, charity etc)
恩里科·費米	Enrico Fermi (1901-1954), Italian born US nuclear physicist
恩陽區	Enyang, a district of Bazhong City 巴中市[Ba1 zhong1 Shi4], Sichuan
恪	respectful; scrupulous
恪守	to scrupulously abide by
恪慎	careful; reverently
恪遵	to scrupulously observe (rules, traditions etc)
恫	frighten
恫嚇	to intimidate; to threaten
恬	quiet; calm; tranquil
恬不知恥	to have no sense of shame
恬和	quiet and gentle
恬噪	to caw
恬愉	content and at ease
恬暢	comfortable and happy
恬波	calm waters
恬淡	quiet and contented; indifferent to fame or gain
恬漠	indifferent and undisturbed
恬然	unperturbed; nonchalant
恬美	serene and beautiful
恬謐	quiet; peaceful
恬退	contented; uninterested in wealth and glory
恬逸	free from worry and disturbance
恬適	quiet and comfortable
恬雅	retired and quiet; calm and graceful
恬靜	still; peaceful; quiet
恭	respectful
恭候	to look forward to sth; to wait respectfully
恭喜	to congratulate; (interj.) congratulations!
恭喜發財	May you have a prosperous New Year! (New Year's greeting)
恭城瑤族自治縣	Gongcheng Yao Autonomous County, in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
恭敬	deferential; respectful
恭敬不如從命	deference is no substitute for obedience (idiom)
恭祝	to congratulate respectfully
恭維	to compliment; to praise
恭親王	Grand Prince (Qing title)
恭謹	(literary) respectful; deferential
恭賀	to congratulate respectfully; to express good wishes
恭賀新禧	Happy New Year
恭順	deferential; respectful
息	(bound form) breath; (bound form) to cease; to stop
息事寧人	to keep the peace; to patch up a quarrel (idiom)
息屏	to turn off the screen
息屏顯示	always-on display (AOD)
息影	(of an actor) to retire from acting
息怒	to calm down; to quell one's anger
息息相關	closely bound up (idiom); intimately related
息烽縣	Xifeng, a county in Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
息爭	to settle a dispute
息率	interest rate
息票	interest coupon; dividend coupon
息縣	Xi County or Xixian, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
息肉	(medicine) polyp
息肩	(literary) to put down one's burden; to rest; to stay (at an inn etc)
恰	exactly; just
恰亞諾夫	Alexander Chayanov (1888-1937), Soviet agrarian economist
恰似	just like; exactly like
恰到好處	it's just perfect; it's just right
恰合	to be just right for
恰吉	Chucky, murderous villain of the 1988 US horror movie "Child's Play"
恰好	as it turns out; by lucky coincidence
恰如	just as if
恰如其分	(idiom) appropriate; apt; just right
恰巧	by chance; as chance would have it
恰帕斯州	Chiapas, state in Mexico
恰恰	exactly; just; precisely; (loanword) cha-cha; cha-cha-cha (dance)
恰恰相反	just the opposite
恰恰舞	(loanword) cha-cha; cha-cha-cha (dance)
恰當	appropriate; suitable
恰遇	to chance upon; to coincide fortuitously with sth
恿	used in 慫恿|怂恿[song3 yong3]
悀	to be angry; to like
悁	angry; sad
悃	sincere
悄	used in 悄悄[qiao1 qiao1]
悄悄	quiet; making little or no noise; surreptitious; stealthy
悄悄咪咪	(dialect) quietly; stealthily
悄悄話	whisperings; private words; confidences
悄無聲息	quietly; noiselessly
悄然	quietly; sorrowfully
悄然無聲	absolutely quiet
悄聲	quietly; in a low voice
悅	(literary) pleased; to please
悅納	to find acceptable
悅耳	sweet-sounding; beautiful (of sound)
悅色	happy; contented
悆	happy
悉	in all cases; know
悉尼	Sydney, capital of New South Wales, Australia
悉德尼	Sidney or Sydney (name)
悉心	to put one's heart (and soul) into sth; with great care
悉悉索索	(onom.) rustling sound (of clothing, leaves, snow etc); faint noises
悉數	to enumerate in detail; to explain clearly
悉聽尊便	(idiom) do as you see fit; do whatever you like
悉達多	Siddhartha Gautama (563-485 BC), the historical Buddha and founder of Buddhism
悊	to revere; to respect
悌	to do one's duty as a younger brother
悌友	to show brotherly love for friends
悌睦	to live at peace as brothers
悍	heroic; intrepid; valiant
悍勇	intrepid; valiant; dauntless
悍匪	brutal bandit; ferocious criminal
悍婦	violent woman; shrew
悍然	outrageous; brazen; flagrant
悍然不顧	outrageous and unconventional (idiom); flying in the face of (authority, convention, public opinion etc)
悍馬	Hummer (vehicle brand)
悐	respect, regard; to stand in awe of, to be alarmed
悒	anxiety; worry
悔	(bound form) to regret; to repent
悔不當初	to regret one's past deeds (idiom)
悔之已晚	too late to be sorry
悔之無及	too late for regrets (idiom); It is useless to repent after the event.
悔婚	to break a promise of marriage
悔恨	remorse; repentance
悔恨交加	to feel remorse and shame (idiom)
悔悟	to repent
悔意	remorse
悔改	to repent; repentance
悔棋	to withdraw a move (chess)
悔罪	to repent; to be contrite
悔過	to repent; to be penitent
悔過書	written repentance
悔過自新	to repent and start afresh (idiom); to turn over a new leaf
悕	(literary) to wish; to hope; sad
悖	to go against; to be contrary to; perverse
悖亂	to rebel; sedition; to delude
悖晦	(coll.) muddleheaded
悖論	paradox (logic)
悖謬	absurd; irrational
悖逆	contrary
悚	frightened
悚然	frightened; terrified
悛	to reform
悜	obscure
悝	worried; afflicted
悞	to impede; to delay
悟	to comprehend; to apprehend; to become aware
悟入	to understand; to comprehend the ultimate essence of things (Buddhism)
悟性	perception; wits; power of understanding
悟空	Sun Wukong, the Monkey King, character with supernatural powers from the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 You2 Ji4]
悟能	Zhu Bajie 豬八戒|猪八戒[Zhu1 Ba1 jie4] or Zhu Wuneng, Pigsy or Pig (in Journey to the West)
悟道	to comprehend the truth; to become enlightened
悠	long or drawn out; remote in time or space; leisurely
悠久	long (tradition, history etc)
悠哉悠哉	free and unconstrained (idiom); leisurely and carefree
悠悠	lasting for ages; long drawn out; remote in time or space
悠悠球	yo-yo (loanword)
悠揚	melodious; mellifluous
悠然	unhurried; leisurely
悠然神往	thoughts wandering far away
悠著	to take it easy
悠遊卡	EasyCard (smart card used mainly for public transportation in Taiwan)
悠遠	long time ago; distant; far away
悠長	long; drawn-out; prolonged
悠閑	leisurely
悠閒	leisurely; carefree; relaxed
悢	(literary) sad; melancholy
患	to suffer (from illness); to contract (a disease); misfortune
患上	to come down with; to be afflicted with (an illness)
患兒	child patient; pediatric patient
患得患失	to worry about personal gains and losses
患有	to contract (an illness); to be afflicted with; to suffer from
患病	to fall ill
患病者	person suffering (from a disease or poisoning); a patient
患癌	to develop cancer
患者	patient; sufferer
患處	afflicted part
患難	trials and tribulations
患難之交	a friend in times of tribulations (idiom); a friend in need is a friend indeed
患難見真情	true sentiments are seen in hard times (idiom)
悧	used in 憐悧|怜悧[lian2 li4]
您	you (courteous, as opposed to informal 你[ni3])
您好	hello (polite)
悰	joy
悱	to want to articulate one's thoughts but be unable to
悲	sad; sadness; sorrow
悲不自勝	unable to control one's grief (idiom); overwrought
悲催	(slang) miserable; wretched; unfortunate (often humorous or self-deprecating)
悲傷	sad; sorrowful
悲切	mournful
悲劇	tragedy
悲劇性	tragic
悲劇缺陷	tragic flaw (Aristotle's hamartia)
悲哀	grieved; sorrowful
悲哽	to choke with grief
悲啼	to wail with grief; plaintive cry
悲喜交集	mixed feelings of grief and joy
悲喜劇	tragicomedy
悲嘆	to bewail; to sigh mournfully; to lament
悲報	sad news; bad news
悲壯	solemn and stirring; moving and tragic
悲天憫人	to bemoan the state of the universe and pity the fate of mankind
悲悼	to mourn; to grieve over sb's death
悲悽	pitiable; sorrowful
悲惻	grieved; sorrowful
悲愁	melancholy
悲愴	sorrow; tragic
悲慘	miserable; tragic
悲慘世界	Les Misérables (1862) by Victor Hugo 維克多·雨果|维克多·雨果[Wei2 ke4 duo1 · Yu3 guo3]
悲慟	mournful
悲憤	grief and indignation
悲憫	to take pity on sb; compassionate
悲戚	mournful
悲摧	grieved; miserable
悲楚	sorrowful; grieved
悲歌	to sing with solemn fervor; sad, stirring song; elegy; dirge; threnody
悲歌當哭	to sing instead of weep (idiom)
悲歡離合	joys and sorrows; partings and reunions; the vicissitudes of life
悲泣	to weep with grief
悲涼	sorrowful; dismal
悲痛	grieved; sorrowful
悲痛欲絕	(idiom) to be overcome with grief
悲聲載道	lamentations fill the roads (idiom); severe suffering all around
悲苦	forlorn; miserable
悲觀	pessimistic
悲酸	bitter and sad
悲鳴	to utter a mournful cry; wail; groan
悴	haggard; sad; downcast
悵	regretful; upset; despairing; depressed
悵悵然	disappointed
悵惘	distracted; listless; in low spirits
悵然	disappointed and frustrated
悵然若失	(idiom) to feel a profound sense of loss; to feel disconsolate
悶	stuffy; shut indoors; to smother
悶屁	silent fart
悶悶不樂	depressed; sulky; moody
悶熱	sultry; sultriness; hot and stuffy
悶聲不響	to keep silent
悶聲悶氣	muffled
悶聲發大財	to amass wealth while keeping a low profile (idiom)
悶葫蘆	lit. closed gourd; fig. enigma; complete mystery
悶酒	alcohol drunk to drown one's sorrows
悶雷	muffled thunder; (fig.) sudden shock; blow
悶騷	(coll.) outwardly cold or retiring but deep and passionate inside
悷	sorrowful
悸	to palpitate
悸動	to pound; to throb
悸慄	to tremble with fear
悻	angry
悻悻	angry; resentful
悻然	angrily; resentfully; in a huff
悼	to mourn; to lament
悼念	to grieve
悼襄王	King Daoxiang of Zhao 趙國|赵国, reigned 245-236 BC
悼詞	memorial speech; eulogy
悽	sad; mournful
悽哀	desolate; mournful
悽惻	heartbroken; sorrowful
悽愴	pitiful; painful; heartrending
悽慘	plaintive; mournful; miserable
悽楚	sad; wretched; miserable
悽涼	mournful; miserable
悽然	distressed
悽苦	bleak; miserable
悽迷	pained and bewildered
悾	simple-minded; sincere
惄	distressed; famished
情	(bound form) feelings; emotion; sentiment; passion
情不可卻	unable to refuse because of affection
情不自禁	(idiom) cannot refrain from; cannot help; cannot but
情事	circumstances; facts (of a case); case
情人	lover; sweetheart
情人果	(Tw) pickled mangoes (burong mangga)
情人眼裡出西施	lit. in the eyes of a lover appears 西施[Xi1 shi1] (idiom); fig. beauty is in the eye of the beholder
情人眼裡有西施	In the eyes of the lover, a famous beauty (idiom). Beauty in the eye of the beholder
情人節	Valentine's Day
情何以堪	how can this be endured! (idiom)
情侶	sweethearts; lovers
情侶裝	matching outfit for couples
情侶酒店	love hotel
情侶頭像	"lovers' avatar" – avatar that matches the avatar of a significant other (e.g. two halves of one image, two images drawn in a similar style etc), used to indicate a romantic relationship
情侶鸚鵡	lovebirds
情傷	romantic heartbreak
情兒	(dialect) mistress; paramour
情分	mutual affection; friendship
情勒	emotional blackmail (abbr. for 情緒勒索|情绪勒索[qing2 xu4 le4 suo3])
情勢	situation; circumstance
情史	romantic history; romantic past
情同手足	as close as one's hands and feet (idiom); loving one another as brothers
情同骨肉	as close as flesh and bones (idiom); deep friendship
情味	feeling; flavor; sense
情商	emotional intelligence; emotional intelligence quotient (EQ) (abbr. for 情緒商數|情绪商数[qing2 xu4 shang1 shu4])
情報	information; intelligence
情報處	intelligence office; intelligence section
情場	affairs of the heart; mutual relationship
情境	situation; context; setting; environment
情境模型	situational model
情夫	married woman's lover
情婦	mistress; paramour (of married man)
情定	to exchange vows with (sb); to exchange vows at (a time or place)
情定終身	(idiom) to pledge eternal love; to exchange marriage vows
情形	circumstances; situation; state of affairs
情志	emotion; mood
情急	anxious
情急之下	in a moment of desperation
情急了	mythical talking bird; mynah bird
情急智生	inspiration in a moment of desperation (idiom); also written 情急之下
情意	friendly regard; affection
情愛	affection; friendly feelings towards sb; love
情感	feeling; emotion; to move (emotionally)
情感分析	sentiment analysis
情愫	sentiment; feeling
情態	spirit; mood; (linguistics) modal
情慾	lust; desire; sensual
情懷	feelings; mood
情投意合	(idiom) to have an affinity with each other; to find each other congenial
情操	sentiments; feelings; disposition of mind
情敵	rival in love
情景	scene; spectacle; circumstances; situation
情景喜劇	sitcom
情書	love letter
情有可原	pardonable (of interruption, misunderstanding etc)
情有獨鍾	to have a special fondness (for sth)
情歌	love song
情殺	murder as a crime of passion
情比金堅	love is more solid than gold (idiom)
情況	circumstances; state of affairs; situation
情狀	situation; circumstances
情理	reason; sense
情癡	infatuated; lovesick person
情真意切	(idiom) sincere; heartfelt
情知	to know full well; to be fully aware
情種	affectionate; an affectionate person
情竇	(lit.) love aperture; (fig.) interest in love matters
情竇初開	first awakening of love (usually of a girl) (idiom)
情節	circumstances; plot; storyline
情結	complex (psychology)
情網	snare of love
情緒	mood; state of mind; moodiness
情緒價值	emotional value
情緒化	emotional; sentimental
情緒商數	emotional intelligence quotient (EQ)
情緒智商	emotional intelligence (EQ)
情緒狀態	emotional state
情緣	predestined love; love affinity
情義	affection; comradeship
情色	erotic (of art etc); facial expression (archaic)
情蒐	intelligence gathering
情詩	love poem
情話	terms of endearment; words of love
情誼	friendship; camaraderie
情調	ambience; mood; flavor
情變	loss of love; breakup of a relationship
情資	intelligence; information
情趣	inclinations and interests; delight; fun
情趣商店	adult shop
情趣玩具	sex toy
情趣用品	adult product; sex toy
情趣酒店	love hotel
情逾骨肉	feelings deeper than for one's own flesh and blood (idiom)
情郎	boyfriend; paramour (of a woman)
情隨事遷	feelings change with circumstances (idiom)
情非得已	compelled by the circumstances (to do sth)
情面	feelings and sensibilities; sentiment and face
情頭	"lovers' avatar" – avatar that matches the avatar of a significant other (e.g. two halves of one image, two images drawn in a similar style etc), used to indicate a romantic relationship (abbr. for 情侶頭像|情侣头像[qing2 lu : 3 tou2 xiang4])
情願	willingness; would rather (agree to X than Y)
惆	forlorn; vexed; disappointed
惆悵	melancholy; depression
惇	kindhearted; honest
惈	courageous; resolute and daring
惋	to sigh in regret or pity; Taiwan pr. [wan4]
惋惜	to regret; to feel that it is a great pity; to feel sorry for sb
惌	to bear a grudge against
惎	injure; vilify
惏	cold; frigid
惑	to confuse; to be puzzled
惑星	(obsolete) planet
惓	earnest
惔	to burn
惕	fearful; respectful
惕然	to be afraid, fearful of
惘	disappointed; perplexed
惘然	frustrated; perplexed; irresolute
惘然若失	lit. to be frustrated as though having lost sth (idiom)
惙	mournful; uncertain
惚	used in 恍惚[huang3 hu1]
惛	confused; forgetful; silly
惛耄	senile; senility
惜	to cherish; to begrudge; to pity
惜別	reluctant to part
惜命	to be mindful of one's health and safety
惜售	to be reluctant to sell sth
惜寸陰	to cherish every moment; to make good use of one's time
惜才	to have an appreciation for talent in another person
惜福	to appreciate one's good fortune
惝	disappointed; listless; frightened
惝恍	(literary) despondent; upset; (literary) hazy; indistinct
惟	-ism; only
惟妙惟肖	to imitate to perfection; to be remarkably true to life
惠	(bound form) act of kindness (from a superior)
惠來縣	Huilai, a county in Jieyang City 揭陽市|揭阳市[Jie1 yang2 Shi4], Guangdong
惠及	(literary) to be of benefit to
惠城區	Huicheng, a district of Huizhou City 惠州市[Hui4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
惠子	Hui-zi also known as Hui Shi 惠施[Hui4 Shi1] (c. 370-310 BC), politician and philosopher of the School of Logicians 名家[Ming2 jia1] during the Warring States Period (475-220 BC)
惠安縣	Hui'an, a county in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
惠山區	Huishan, a district of Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
惠州市	Huizhou, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
惠斯勒	Whistler (name)
惠斯特	whist (loanword)
惠施	Hui Shi, also known as Hui-zi 惠子[Hui4 zi5](c. 370-310 BC), politician and philosopher of the School of Logicians 名家[Ming2 jia1] during the Warring States Period (475-220 BC)
惠普	Hewlett-Packard
惠普公司	Hewlett-Packard; HP
惠更斯	Huygens (name)
惠書	(formal) your letter
惠東縣	Huidong, a county in Huizhou City 惠州市[Hui4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
惠民	to benefit the people
惠民縣	Huimin, a county in Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
惠水縣	Huishui, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
惠濟區	Huiji, a district of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
惠特妮·休斯頓	Whitney Houston (1963-2012), American singer and actress
惠特曼	Walt Whitman (1819–1892), American poet and journalist
惠而不費	a kind act that costs nothing
惠臨	(honorific) to visit; to call in
惠譽	Fitch, credit rating agency
惠農區	Huinong, a district of Shizuishan City 石嘴山市[Shi2 zui3 shan1 Shi4], Ningxia
惠遠寺	Huiyuan Monastery in Dawu County 道孚縣|道孚县[Dao4 fu2 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
惠陽區	Huiyang, a district of Huizhou City 惠州市[Hui4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
惠靈頓	Wellington, capital of New Zealand
惠顧	your patronage
惡	to hate; to loathe; ashamed
惡事	malicious deed; misdeed; disaster; catastrophe
惡事傳千里	evil deeds spread a thousand miles (idiom); scandal spreads like wildfire
惡人	evil person; vile creature; villain; (archaic) ugly person
惡人先告狀	the guilty party files the suit; the thief cries thief
惡仗	hard fighting; fierce battle
惡作劇	practical joke; prank; to play a practical joke
惡俗	bad habit; evil custom; vulgarity
惡兇兇	fierce
惡創	malign sore (TCM)
惡劣	vile; nasty; of very poor quality
惡勢力	evil forces; criminal elements
惡化	to worsen
惡叉白賴	evil behavior (idiom); brazen villainy
惡口	bad language; foul mouth
惡名	bad name; evil reputation
惡名昭彰	infamous; notorious
惡名昭著	notorious; infamous
惡唑啉	oxacillin
惡唑啉酮	oxacillin
惡報	karmic retribution (resulting from evil deeds, in contrast to karmic reward 好報|好报[hao3 bao4])
惡夢	nightmare
惡婦	vicious wife
惡少	young thug; malicious young ruffian
惡徒	hoodlum; bad guy
惡德	wickedness; evil behavior
惡心	bad habit; vicious habit; vice
惡性	malignant; wicked; vicious (circle)
惡性循環	vicious circle
惡性瘤	malignant tumor
惡性瘧原蟲	plasmodium falciparum (malaria parasite)
惡性腫瘤	malignant tumor
惡性轉移	(medicine) metastasis
惡性通貨膨脹	hyperinflation
惡恨	to hate; to abhor
惡惡實實	very fierce
惡意	malice; evil intention
惡意中傷	to slander maliciously
惡意代碼	malicious code (e.g. virus); malware
惡意軟件	malware (computing)
惡感	malice; ill will
惡戰	hard fighting; fierce battle
惡損	to ridicule
惡搞	spoof (web-based genre in PRC, acquiring cult status from 2005, involving humorous, satirical or fantastical videos, photo collections, texts, poems etc)
惡搞文化	spoofing culture (Web-based genre in PRC acquiring cult status from 2005, involving humorous, satirical or fantastical videos, photo collections, texts, poems etc)
惡整	to prank
惡有惡報	evil has its retribution (idiom); to suffer the consequences of one's bad deeds
惡果	evil consequence; retribution (in Buddhism)
惡棍	scoundrel; rogue; bully; villain
惡歲	lean year; year of bad harvest
惡毒	malicious
惡氣	evil smell; resentment; unpleasant manner
惡水	dirty water; water that is unfit to drink; slops
惡浪	violent wave; fierce billow; fig. depraved force
惡漢	overbearing fiend
惡濁	filthy; foul
惡煞	demon; fiend
惡狠	fierce and vicious
惡狠狠	very fierce
惡疾	unpleasant ailment; foul disease
惡病質	Cachexia (physical wasting associated with long-term illness)
惡癖	bad habit
惡相	sinister look
惡神	malignant deity; fiend
惡罵	to curse fiercely
惡習	bad habit; vice
惡聲	malicious abuse; lewd song; evil reputation
惡臭	stink; stench; stinky; smelly; (fig.) disgusting; repugnant
惡舌	vicious talk; malicious tongue
惡行	evil or wicked conduct
惡補	to overdose on supplementary medicine; to cram too hard
惡言	evil tongue; malicious talk
惡言傷人	to insult; to direct bad language at sb; to slag off
惡誓	evil oath
惡語	evil words; malicious talk
惡語中傷	(idiom) to slander viciously
惡語傷人	to insult; to direct bad language at sb; to slag off
惡貫滿盈	lit. strung through and filled with evil (idiom); filled with extreme evil
惡跡	evil conduct
惡辣	ruthless
惡露	(medicine) lochia
惡霸	evil tyrant
惡鬥	hard fighting; fierce battle
惡鬼	evil spirit; devil
惡魔	demon; fiend
惡魔城	Castlevania (video game series)
惦	to think of; to remember; to miss
惦念	to constantly have (sb or sth) on one's mind
惦記	to think of; to keep thinking about; to be concerned about
惰	lazy
惰性	inert (chemistry); apathy; inertia
惰性氣體	(chemistry) inert gas (esp. a noble gas)
惱	to get angry
惱人	annoying; irksome; to irritate
惱怒	resentful; angry; to enrage sb
惱恨	to hate and resent; angry and full of grievances
惱火	annoyed; riled; vexed
惱羞成怒	(idiom) to become enraged over a perceived humiliation
惲	surname Yun
想	to think (about); to think of; to devise
想不到	unexpected; hard to imagine; it had not occurred to me
想不通	unable to understand; unable to get over
想不開	cannot figure out; to be unable to take a lighter view
想也沒想	without a second thought
想來	it may be assumed that
想像	to imagine; to envision; imagination
想像力	conception; imagination
想入非非	to indulge in fantasy (idiom); to let one's imagination run wild
想出	to figure out; to work out (a solution etc); to think up
想到	to think of; to call to mind; to anticipate
想家	homesick
想得美	to have an unrealistically optimistic expectation; (as an interjection) what a dreamer!
想得開	to not take to heart; to be free of worried thoughts
想必	presumably; probably; in all likelihood
想念	to miss; to remember with longing; to long to see again
想想看	to think about it
想方設法	to think up every possible method (idiom); to devise ways and means
想望	to desire; to wish; (literary) to admire
想法	way of thinking; opinion; notion; to think of a way (to do sth)
想當然	to take sth as given; to make assumptions
想當然爾	to take sth as given; to assume; as one would expect
想睡	drowsy; sleepy
想要	to want to; to feel like; to fancy
想見	to infer; to gather
想象	to imagine; to envision; imagination
想象力	imagination
想起	to recall; to think of; to call to mind
想起來	to remember; to recall
想通	to figure out; to realize; to become convinced
想開	to get over (a shock, bereavement etc)
想頭	(coll.) idea; hope
惴	anxious; worried
惴惴不安	to be on tenterhooks (idiom); to be anxious and frightened
惶	(bound form) fear; dread; anxiety; trepidation
惶恐	terrified
惶恐不安	anxious; panicky
惶惑	anxious and perplexed; uneasy and confused; suspicious and fearful
惶惶	alarmed; anxious
惶遽	frightened; anxious
惷	stupid
惹	to provoke; to irritate; to vex
惹不起	can't afford to offend; dare not provoke; difficult to deal with
惹亂子	to stir up trouble; to get into trouble
惹事	to cause trouble
惹人	to provoke (esp. annoyance, disgust etc); to offend
惹人厭	annoying; disgusting
惹人心煩	to annoy people; to be a pain in the neck
惹人注意	to attract attention
惹人注目	to attract attention; noticeable
惹婁子	to stir up trouble; to bring trouble upon oneself
惹怒	to provoke anger
惹惱	to make sb angry
惹是生非	to stir up trouble
惹是非	to stir up trouble
惹毛	(coll.) to irritate; to annoy; to piss sb off
惹火	to stir up the fire; fig. to provoke and offend people
惹火燒身	stir up the fire and you get burnt (idiom); to get one's fingers burnt
惹眼	eye-catching; conspicuous
惹禍	to stir up trouble; to invite disaster
惹起	provoke, incite; stir up; arouse (attention)
惹麻煩	to create difficulties; to be troublesome; to invite trouble
惺	(literary) to come to one's senses; to awaken
惺忪	drowsy-eyed; (literary) wavering; indecisive
惺惺	(literary) awake; (literary) intelligent; clever
惺惺作態	(idiom) to put on an act
惺惺相惜	(lit.) people of talent appreciate one another (idiom)
惻	sorrowful
惻隱	compassion; empathetic
惻隱之心	compassion
愀	change countenance; worry
愁	to worry about
愁悶	depressed; gloomy
愁眉不展	with a worried frown
愁眉苦臉	to look anxious (idiom); to look miserable
愁緒	melancholy
愁腸	anxiety; worries
愁腸百結	hundred knots of worry in one's intestines (idiom); weighed down with anxiety
愁苦	anxiety; distress
愃	well-being
愆	fault; transgression
愆尤	crime; offense; fault
愆期	(formal) to delay; to miss a deadline
愈	the more...(the more...); to recover; to heal
愈來愈	more and more
愈加	all the more; even more; further
愈演愈烈	ever more critical; problems get more and more intense
愈發	all the more; increasingly
愈益	increasingly; more and more
愉	pleased
愉快	cheerful; happy; pleasant; delighted
愉悅	joyful; cheerful; delighted
愊	melancholy; sincere
愎	perverse; obstinate; willful
意	(bound form) idea; thought; meaning; sense
意下如何	how about it?; what do you think?
意中	according with one's wish or expectation
意中事	sth that is expected or wished for
意中人	sweetheart; one's true love; the person of one's thoughts
意即	which means; (this) means (that)
意向	intention; purpose; intent
意向書	letter of intent (LOI) (commerce)
意味	meaning; implication; flavor
意味深長	profound; significant; meaningful
意味著	to signify; to mean; to imply
意圖	intent; intention; to intend
意境	artistic mood or conception; creative concept
意外	unexpected; accident; mishap
意外事故	accident
意大利	Italy
意大利人	Italian person
意大利直麵	spaghetti
意大利語	Italian (language)
意大利青瓜	zucchini
意大利青醬	pesto (sauce made with basil, garlic, olive oil, pine nuts and cheese)
意大利麵	spaghetti; pasta
意存筆先，畫盡意在	the idea is present before the first stroke of the brush, when the last stroke is placed the idea shines through
意式	Italian-style
意式奶凍	panna cotta
意志	will; willpower; determination
意志力	willpower
意念	idea; thought
意念移物	telekinesis
意思	idea; opinion; meaning
意思意思	to do a little something as a token of one's appreciation
意想不到	unexpected; previously unimagined
意態	bearing; attitude
意指	to mean; to imply
意料	to anticipate; to expect; expectations
意料之中	to come as no surprise; as expected
意料之外	(idiom) contrary to expectation; unexpected
意旨	intent; intention; will
意會	to sense; to grasp intuitively
意樂	joy; happiness
意欲	to intend to; intention; desire
意氣用事	(idiom) to let emotions affect one's decisions
意氣相投	congenial
意氣風發	(idiom) high-spirited; full of mettle
意涵	(Tw) meaning; significance; import
意淫	to fantasize; (esp.) to have a sexual fantasy about (sb)
意猶未盡	to wish to continue sth; to have not fully expressed oneself
意甲	Serie A, the top division of the Italian football league system
意符	semantic component of a phono-semantic character (e.g. component 刂[dao1] in 刻[ke4])
意第緒語	Yiddish language
意義	sense; meaning; significance
意義變化	change of meaning
意興	interest; enthusiasm
意興索然	to have no interest in sth
意蘊	inner meaning; implication; connotation
意見	idea; opinion; suggestion
意見不合	to disagree; dissent
意見箱	suggestion box
意見領袖	opinion leader
意謂	to mean; meaning
意識	consciousness; awareness
意識到	to be aware of; to realize
意識形態	ideology
意識流	stream of consciousness (in literature)
意譯	meaning (of foreign expression)
意象	image; imagery
意趣	interest; point of particular charm and interest
意願	aspiration; wish (for); desire
意麵	pasta (abbr. for 意大利麵|意大利面[yi4 da4 li4 mian4])
愐	shy
愒	to desire
愓	profligate
愔	peaceful; solemn
愕	startled
愕然	stunned; amazed
愗	used in 怐愗[kou4 mao4]
愚	to be stupid; to cheat or deceive; me or I (modest)
愚不可及	impossibly stupid
愚人	stupid person; ignoramus
愚人節	April Fools' Day
愚公移山	the old man moves mountains (idiom); fig. where there's a will, there's a way
愚妄	stupid and arrogant
愚孝	unquestioning filial piety
愚弄	to make a fool out of; to fool; to dupe
愚弱	ignorant and feeble
愚意	my humble opinion
愚懦	ignorant and timid
愚拙	clumsy and stupid
愚昧	ignorant; uneducated; ignorance
愚昧無知	stupid and ignorant (idiom)
愚民	ignorant masses; to keep the people in ignorance
愚氓	fool; stupid person
愚矇	ignorant; stupid
愚笨	stupid; clumsy
愚蠢	silly; stupid
愚見	my humble opinion
愚鈍	stupid; slow-witted
愚陋	ignorant and backward
愚頑	ignorant and stubborn
愚騃	stupid; foolish
愚魯	dull-witted; foolish
愛	to love; to be fond of; to like; affection
愛丁堡	Edinburgh, capital of Scotland
愛上	to fall in love with; to be in love with
愛不忍釋	to love sth too much to part with it (idiom)
愛不釋手	(idiom) to like sth so much that one is reluctant to put it down; to find sth utterly irresistible
愛之如命	to love sb (or sth) as one loves life itself
愛人	spouse (PRC); lover (non-PRC)
愛人如己	love others as self
愛侶	lovers
愛優騰	abbr. for iQiyi 愛奇藝|爱奇艺[Ai4 Qi2 yi4] + Youku 優酷|优酷[You1 ku4] + Tencent 騰訊|腾讯[Teng2 xun4]
愛克斯光	X-ray (loanword); Röntgen or Roentgen ray
愛克斯射線	X-ray radiation
愛別離苦	(Buddhism) the pain of parting with what (or whom) one loves, one of the eight distresses 八苦[ba1 ku3]
愛哭鬼	crybaby
愛問	iAsk.com, the search engine of Sina 新浪
愛因斯坦	Albert Einstein (1879-1955), German-born theoretical physicist
愛國	to love one's country; patriotic
愛國主義	patriotism
愛國如家	to love one's country as one's own family (praise for a virtuous ruler)
愛國者	MIM-104 Patriot surface-to-air missile
愛國衛生運動委員會	Patriotic Health Committee
愛奇藝	iQiyi, online video platform based in Beijing, launched in 2010
愛奧尼亞海	Ionian Sea between Italy and Greece
愛奧華	Iowa, US state
愛好	to like; to be fond of; to take pleasure in; to be keen on
愛好者	lover (of art, sports etc); amateur; enthusiast; fan
愛子	beloved son
愛將	trusted lieutenant
愛屋及烏	lit. love the house and its crow (idiom); involvement with sb and everyone connected
愛崗敬業	devoted to one's work
愛巢	love nest
愛彼迎	Airbnb
愛得死去活來	to be madly in love
愛德	Aide (brand)
愛德斯沃爾	Eidsvoll (city in Norway)
愛德玲	Adeline (name)
愛德華	Edward; Édouard (name)
愛德華·達拉第	Édouard Daladier (1884-1970), French politician
愛德華島	Prince Edward Island, province of Canada
愛德華王子島	Prince Edward Island (province of Canada)
愛德華茲	(name) Edwards
愛德蒙	(name) Edmund; Edmond
愛心	compassion; kindness; care for others
愛心傘	courtesy umbrella (one made available for borrowing)
愛恨交加	to feel a mixture of love and hate
愛恨交織	mixture of love and hate
愛情	romance; love (romantic)
愛情喜劇	romantic comedy
愛情片	romance film
愛惜	to cherish; to treasure; to use sparingly
愛惜羽毛	(idiom) to cherish one's reputation
愛意	love
愛愛	(coll.) to make love
愛慕	to adore; to admire
愛慕虛榮	vain
愛憎	love and hate
愛憎分明	to make a clear difference between what one likes and what one hates
愛憐	to show tenderness; to coo over; affection
愛戀	in love with; to feel deeply attached to
愛戴	to love and respect; love and respect
愛才	to value talent; to cherish talented people
愛才若渴	(idiom) to be eager to surround oneself with talented people
愛撫	to caress; to fondle; to look after (tenderly)
愛斯基摩	Eskimo
愛新覺羅	Aisin Gioro, family name of the Manchu emperors of the Qing dynasty
愛昵	intimate; loving
愛晚亭	Aiwan Pavilion, on Mt Yuelu 岳麓山 in Hubei, famous beauty spot
愛普生	Epson, Japanese electronics company
愛樂	philharmonic (used in names of orchestras)
愛樂樂團	philharmonic orchestra
愛死病	nonstandard, stigmatizing transliteration of "AIDS", now replaced by 艾滋病[ai4 zi1 bing4]
愛民區	Aimin, a district of Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
愛民如子	(idiom) to love the common people as one's own children (praise for a virtuous ruler)
愛沙尼亞	Estonia
愛河	the river of love
愛港	to love Hong Kong (usually implying that one also supports the PRC government)
愛滋	AIDS (loanword)
愛滋病毒	HIV; the AIDS virus
愛漂亮	to like looking attractive (usually of girls); aestheticism
愛爾蘭	Ireland
愛爾蘭人	Irish person
愛爾蘭共和國	Republic of Ireland
愛爾蘭共和軍	Irish Republican Army (IRA)
愛爾蘭海	Irish Sea between Ireland and north England
愛爾蘭語	Irish language
愛犬	beloved pet dog
愛玉冰	jelly snack made by kneading jelly fig seeds 愛玉子|爱玉子[ai4 yu4 zi3] in water and combining with flavorings (popular in Taiwan and Singapore)
愛玉子	jelly fig seed (Ficus pumila var. awkeotsang)
愛現	(coll.) to enjoy showing off
愛理不理	(idiom) standoffish; indifferent
愛琴海	Aegean Sea
愛瑪	Emma (name)
愛瑪·沃特森	Emma Watson (1990-), British actress
愛留根納	Eriugena, John Scottus (c. 810-880) Irish poet, theologian, and philosopher of Neoplatonism
愛瘋	iPhone (slang)
愛知	Aichi (prefecture in Japan)
愛神	god of love
愛稱	term of endearment; pet name; diminutive
愛立信	Ericsson (Swedish telecommunications company)
愛經	Kama Sutra
愛維養	Evian, mineral water company (Tw)
愛羅先珂	Vasili Eroshenko (1890-1952), Russian writer and poet who wrote in Esperanto and Japanese
愛美	to pay attention to one's appearance; to like to be well-groomed
愛美之心，人皆有之	everyone loves beauty (idiom)
愛耳日	Ear Care Day (March 3)
愛荷華	Iowa, US state (Tw)
愛莉絲	(name) Alice
愛莫利維爾	Emeryville, city on San Fransico Bay, California
愛莫能助	unable to help however much one would like to (idiom); Although we sympathize, there is no way to help you.
愛衛會	Patriotic Health Committee (abbr. for 愛國衛生運動委員會|爱国卫生运动委员会[Ai4 guo2 Wei4 sheng1 Yun4 dong4 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
愛詞霸	iCIBA, online dictionary by Kingsoft
愛誰誰	(coll.) whatever; who cares
愛護	to cherish; to treasure; to take care of
愛豆	(loanword) (coll.) idol
愛財	avaricious
愛財如命	lit. to love money as much as one's own life (idiom); fig. avaricious
愛輝區	Aihui, a district of Heihe City 黑河市[Hei1 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
愛迪生	Edison (name)
愛達荷	Idaho, US state
愛面子	to like to look good in the eyes of others; sensitive about how one is regarded by others; proud
愛馬仕	Hermès (brand)
愛麗絲	(name) Alice
愛麗絲漫遊奇境記	Alice in Wonderland
愛麗舍宮	Elysée Palace, the residence of the president of the French Republic
愛默生	Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-1882), American poet, essayist, and philosopher
愜	(literary) satisfied; content
愜意	satisfied; pleased; contented
感	to feel; to move; to touch
感人	touching; moving
感人肺腑	(idiom) deeply touching
感人至深	(idiom) deeply touching
感佩	to admire with gratitude
感傷	sad; downhearted; sentimental
感光	light-sensitive
感光鼓	toner cartridge
感冒	to catch cold; (common) cold
感冒藥	medicine for colds
感到	to feel; to sense; to perceive
感動	to move (sb); to touch (sb emotionally); moving
感化	corrective influence; to reform (a criminal); redemption (of a sinner)
感化院	reformatory; reform school
感受	to sense; perception; to feel (through the senses)
感受器	sensory receptor
感召	to move and appeal; to rally to a cause; to impel
感召力	appeal; attraction; charisma
感同身受	to feel as if it had happened to oneself; to sympathize
感喟	sighing with emotion
感嘆	to sigh (with feeling); to lament
感嘆句	exclamation; exclamatory phrase
感嘆號	exclamation point; exclamation mark (!)
感嘆詞	interjection (part of speech); exclamation
感嘆語	exclamation; expletive
感天動地	(idiom) deeply affecting
感奮	moved and inspired; fired with enthusiasm
感官	sense; sense organ
感念	to recall fondly; to remember with emotion
感性	perception; perceptual; sensibility
感性工學	kansei engineering (product design that aims to engender specific subjective responses in the consumer) (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 感性工学 "kansei kougaku")
感性認識	perceptual awareness
感恩	to be grateful
感恩圖報	grateful and seeking to repay the kindness (idiom)
感恩戴德	deeply grateful
感恩節	Thanksgiving Day
感悟	to come to realize; to appreciate (feelings)
感情	emotion; sentiment; affection; feelings between two persons
感情史	romantic history; romantic past
感情用事	to act impetuously (idiom); on an impulse
感想	impressions; reflections; thoughts
感愧	to feel gratitude mixed with shame
感慨	to sigh with sorrow, regret etc; rueful; deeply moved
感憤	moved to anger; indignant
感應	response; reaction; interaction
感應器	inductor (elec.)
感應線圈	induction coil; solenoid
感懷	to recall with emotion; to feel sentiments
感戴	sincerely grateful
感染	to infect; infection; (fig.) to influence
感染人數	number of infected persons
感染力	infectiousness (of a disease)
感染性腹瀉	infective diarrhea
感染率	rate of infection (usu. of a disease)
感染者	infected person
感測器	(Tw) sensor
感激	to be grateful; to appreciate; thankful
感激不盡	can't thank sb enough (idiom)
感激涕零	to shed tears of gratitude (idiom); moved to tears
感生	(mythology) to conceive or give birth by non-sexual or divine means
感發	to move and inspire
感知	perception (the process of perceiving sth with the senses)
感知力	perceptivity
感興趣	to be interested (in sth)
感覺	feeling; impression; sensation; to feel; to perceive
感覺到	to feel; to sense; to detect
感覺器	sense organ
感覺器官	sense organs; the five senses
感觸	one's thoughts and feelings; emotional stirring; moved
感謝	to thank; to be grateful
感質	qualia (philosophy)
感遇	gratitude for good treatment; to sigh; to lament
感遇詩	a lament (poem)
愣	to look distracted; to stare blankly; distracted
愣勁兒	dash; pep; vigor
愣幹	to do things recklessly; to persist in doing sth in one's own way
愣神兒	to stare blankly; to be in a daze
愣說	(coll.) to insist; to allege; to assert
愣頭愣腦	rash; impetuous; reckless
愣頭青	reckless young person
愧	ashamed
愧不敢當	lit. I'm ashamed and dare not (accept the honor); fig. I do not deserve your praise.
愧對	to be ashamed to face (sb); to feel bad about having failed (sb)
愧怍	ashamed
愧恨	ashamed and sorry; suffering shame and remorse
愧悔無地	ashamed and unable to show one's face (idiom)
愧汗	sweating from shame; extremely ashamed
愧疚	to feel guilty; to feel ashamed of oneself; to be remorseful
愧色	ashamed look
愧赧	to blush in shame; red-faced
愨	honest
愫	guileless; sincere
愭	(literary) deferential; to revere
愮	distressed, agitated
愴	mournful; sad; grieved
愷	joyful; kind
愷悌	happy and easygoing; friendly
愷撒	Caesar (name); Gaius Julius Caesar 100-42 BC
愾	anger
愿	honest and prudent
慁	confused; dishonor
慄	(literary) cold; chilly; (bound form) to tremble with fear
慄然	(literary) shivering; shuddering
慅	agitated
慆	rejoice
慇	solicitous
慈	compassionate; gentle; merciful
慈利縣	Cili, a county in Zhangjiajie City 張家界市|张家界市[Zhang1 jia1 jie4 Shi4], Hunan
慈和	kindly; amiable
慈善	benevolent; charitable
慈善家	philanthropist; humanitarian; charity donor
慈善抽獎	a raffle (for charity)
慈善機構	charity
慈善組織	charity organization
慈姑	arrowhead (Sagittaria subulata, a water plant)
慈安太后	Empress Dowager Ci'an (1837-1881) of Qing
慈悲	mercy
慈悲為本	mercy as the guiding principle (idiom); the Buddhist teaching that nothing is valid except compassion
慈愛	love; devotion (to children); affection, esp. towards children
慈母	warm, caring mother
慈江道	Chagang province, in the north of North Korea
慈溪市	Cixi, a county-level city in Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
慈濟	Tzu Chi Foundation, an international humanitarian NGO established in 1966 in Taiwan
慈照寺	Jishōji in northeast Kyōto 京都, Japan, the official name of Ginkakuji or Silver pavilion 銀閣寺|银阁寺[yin2 ge2 si4]
慈眉善目	(idiom) kind-looking; benevolent-looking
慈祥	kindly; benevolent (often of older person)
慈福行動	Operation Blessing (charitable relief organization)
慈禧	Empress Dowager Cixi or Ts'u Hsi (reigned 1861-1908)
慈禧太后	Empress Dowager Cixi or Ts'u Hsi (1835-1908), regent 1861-1908
慈藹	(of demeanor or expression) kindly; benevolent
慈顏	one's mother's loving face
慉	to foster; to bear
慊	dissatisfied
態	(bound form); appearance; shape
態勢	posture; situation
態子	state of matter (solid, liquid or gas)
態射	(math.) morphism
態度	manner; bearing; attitude
態樣	form; pattern
態疊加	superposition of states (quantum mechanics)
慌	to get panicky; to lose one's head
慌亂	frenetic; hurried
慌張	flustered; agitated
慌得	hurriedly; in a frenzy
慌忙	in a great rush; in a flurry
慌成一團	(of a group of people) to run about helplessly
慌神	to get agitated; to panic
慌裡慌張	flustered; in a panic
慍	indignant; feel hurt
慍怒	inwardly angry; indignant; sulking
慎	careful; cautious
慎入	keep away!; proceed with caution!
慎密	cautious; with meticulous care
慎獨	to preserve a proper behavior in private life
慎終追遠	to pay careful attention to one's parents' funerary rites
慎言	to speak cautiously; to guard one's tongue
慎重	cautious; careful; prudent
慎重其事	to treat a matter with due consideration (idiom)
慕	to admire
慕名	to admire sb's reputation; to seek out famous person or location
慕名而來	to come to a place on account of its reputation (idiom); attracted to visit a famous location
慕士塔格峰	Muztagh Ata, second highest peak of the Pamir Mountains
慕容	a branch of the Xianbei 鮮卑|鲜卑[Xian1 bei1] nomadic people
慕尼黑	München or Munich, capital of Bavaria, Germany
慕強	to admire or be drawn to those perceived as strong or superior
慕斯	(loanword) (cuisine) mousse
慕洋犬	(slang) (derog.) person who uncritically admires the West while disparaging China (pun on 牧羊犬[mu4 yang2 quan3])
慕田峪	Mutianyu, well-preserved section of the Great Wall 70km from Beijing
慕絲	(Tw) (loanword) mousse (cosmetic or hairstyling product)
慕課	MOOC (massive open online course) (loanword)
慕道友	religious investigator
慘	miserable; wretched; cruel
慘不忍睹	lit. so horrible that one cannot bear to look (idiom)
慘不忍聞	(idiom) dreadful to hear
慘事	disaster
慘劇	tragedy; calamity; atrocity
慘叫	to scream; blood-curdling screech; miserable shriek
慘境	wretched situation
慘怛	grieved; distressed
慘戮	(literary) to massacre; to slaughter; to brutally kill
慘敗	to suffer a crushing defeat
慘景	wretched sight
慘案	massacre; tragedy
慘死	to die tragically; to meet with a violent death
慘殺	to slaughter; to kill mercilessly
慘毒	cruel; vicious
慘況	tragic situation; dreadful state
慘淡	dark; gloomy; dismal
慘淡經營	to manage by painstaking effort (idiom)
慘烈	bitter; desperate
慘無人道	inhuman (idiom); brutal and unfeeling
慘然	grieved; distressed
慘狀	devastation; miserable condition
慘痛	bitter; painful; deeply distressed
慘白	deathly pale
慘禍	terrible tragedy; grave mishap
慘笑	bitter smile
慘紅	dark red
慘絕人寰	extremely tragic (idiom); with unprecedented brutality
慘變	calamitous turn of events
慘遭	to suffer (defeat, death etc)
慘遭不幸	to meet with disaster; to die tragically
慘酷	(literary) cruel; savage; merciless
慘重	disastrous
慚	ashamed
慚愧	ashamed
慜	clever
慝	evil thought
慟	grief
慢	slow
慢動作	(cinema) slow motion
慢化劑	moderator
慢半拍	(music) a half-beat behind
慢吞吞	very slow; exasperatingly slow
慢城市	slow-paced town
慢工出巧匠	patient work makes a skilled craftsman
慢工出細貨	patient work makes a fine product
慢待	to slight (treat badly)
慢性	slow and patient; chronic (disease)
慢性子	slow-tempered; phlegmatic; a slowcoach
慢性疲勞症候群	chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS)
慢性疼痛	chronic pain
慢性疾病	chronic illness; disease that takes effect slowly
慢性病	chronic disease
慢性阻塞性肺病	chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
慢悠悠	unhurried
慢慢	slowly; gradually
慢慢來	take your time; take it easy
慢慢吃	Enjoy your meal!; Bon appetit!
慢慢吞吞	very slow
慢板	slow tempo; adagio
慢條斯理	unhurried; calm; composed
慢步	at a slow pace
慢火	low heat (cooking)
慢熱	slow to heat up
慢熱型	slow to get started
慢班	remedial stream (in school)
慢生活	slow living
慢用	same as 慢慢吃[man4 man4 chi1]
慢碳	slow carbs; low-GI carbohydrates
慢行	to walk slowly
慢行道	slow lane
慢說	not to mention ... (i.e. in addition to sth)
慢走	Stay a bit!; Wait a minute!; (to a departing guest) Take care!
慢跑	jogging; to jog; to canter
慢車	local bus or train; slow train with many stops
慢速	slow; low-speed
慢速攝影	slow shutter speed photography
慢鏡頭	(cinema) slow motion
慢長	extremely long; unending
慢騰騰	leisurely; unhurried; sluggish
慣	accustomed to; used to; indulge
慣例	convention; usual practice
慣偷	habitual thief
慣壞	to spoil (a child)
慣家	(usually derog.) an old hand at sth
慣常	usual; customary
慣性	(physics) inertia; (fig.) force of habit
慣性系	inertial system; inertial frame (mechanics)
慣有	customary; usual
慣犯	recidivist; habitual criminal
慣用	to use habitually; habitual; customary
慣用手	dominant hand
慣用語	commonly used phrase; idiom; colloquial usage
慣竊	habitual thief
慣賊	habitual thief
慣量	inertia (mechanics)
慣養	to spoil; to indulge sb (usu. a child)
慤	honest
慥	sincere
慧	intelligent
慧眼	an all-seeing mind; mental perception; insight
慧能	Huineng (638-713), the Sixth Patriarch of Chan Buddhism
慧黠	intelligent; bright; sharp
慨	(bound form) impassioned; deeply affected (esp. with indignation or sorrow)
慨嘆	to sigh with regret; lament
慪	to annoy; to irritate; to be annoyed
慪氣	to sulk; to squabble
慫	used in 慫恿|怂恿[song3 yong3]; (literary) terrified
慫恿	to instigate; to incite; to urge; to encourage
慬	(literary) brave; worried; distressed
慮	to think over; to consider; anxiety
慮病症	hypochondria
慰	to comfort; to console; to reassure
慰勞	to show appreciation (by kind words, small gifts etc); to comfort
慰唁	to console
慰問	to express sympathy, greetings, consolation etc
慰問金	condolence payment; compensation given in cases of bereavement, serious injury or hardship
慰安婦	comfort woman (woman or girl forced into sex slavery by the Japanese military 1937-1945) (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 慰安婦 "ianfu")
慰藉	to console; to comfort
慱	sad
慳	stingy
慳儉	miserly; stingy
慳吝	(literary) miserly; stingy
慴	Taiwan pr. [zhe2]
慵	lethargic
慵懶	languid; indolent
慶	to celebrate
慶元縣	Qingyuan, a county in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
慶典	celebration
慶功	to celebrate a heroic deed
慶城縣	Qingcheng, a county in Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
慶大黴素	(pharmacology) gentamicin
慶安縣	Qing'an, a county in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
慶尚北道	North Gyeongsang Province, in east South Korea, capital Daegu 大邱[Da4 qiu1]
慶尚南道	South Gyeongsang Province, in southeast South Korea, capital Changwon 昌原[Chang1 yuan2]
慶尚道	Gyeongsang Province of Joseon Korea, now divided into North Gyeongsang Province 慶尚北道|庆尚北道[Qing4 shang4 bei3 dao4] and South Gyeongsang Province 慶尚南道|庆尚南道[Qing4 shang4 nan2 dao4]
慶州	Qingzhou, ancient northern province; Gyeongju City, South Korea
慶幸	to rejoice; to be glad
慶曆新政	failed reform of Northern Song government in 1043
慶生	to celebrate a birthday
慶祝	to celebrate
慶祝會	celebration
慶賀	to congratulate; to celebrate
慶陽市	Qingyang, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
慶雲縣	Qingyun, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
慷	used in 慷慨[kang1 kai3]
慷慨	vehement; fervent; generous; magnanimous
慷慨捐生	sacrificing one's life generously (idiom); to sacrifice oneself fervently to the cause
慷慨激昂	impassioned; vehement
慷慨解囊	to contribute generously (idiom); help sb generously with money
慷慨赴義	heroically sacrificing one's life (idiom); to sacrifice oneself fervently to the cause
慷慨輸將	to donate generously (idiom)
慼	grief; sorrow
慼慼	sorrowful; distressed
慾	desire; appetite; passion
慾壑難填	(idiom) insatiably greedy
慾望	desire; longing; appetite; craving
慾火	lust
慾火焚身	burning with desire
憀	to rely on
憂	to worry; to concern oneself with; worried
憂傷	distressed; laden with grief
憂容	(literary) worried facial expression
憂心	concerned; worried; disturbed
憂心忡忡	deeply worried and sick at heart (idiom)
憂思	to be anxious and worried; agitated; pensive
憂悒	anxious; distressed; burdened with care
憂患	suffering; misery; hardship
憂悶	depressed; full of worries; feeling down
憂愁	to be worried
憂慮	to worry; anxiety (about)
憂懼	apprehension; apprehensive
憂灼	worrying
憂鬱	sullen; depressed; melancholy; dejected
憂鬱症	(psychology) depression
憃	foolish; stupid; dull; silly
憊	exhausted
憊倦	tired and sleepy; tipsy
憊懶	listless; languid; slothful; indolent
憊賴	naughty; cheeky
憋	to choke; to stifle; to restrain
憋不住	to be unable to repress sth; to be unable to contain oneself
憋尿	to hold in one's pee; to hold back from urinating
憋屈	sullen
憋悶	to feel oppressed; to be depressed; to feel dejected
憋氣	to hold one's breath; to feel suffocated (for lack of air)
憋笑	to stifle a guffaw
憍	arrogant
憎	to detest
憎厭	to loathe
憎恨	to detest; hatred
憎惡	to loathe; to detest; to abhor
憐	to pity
憐恤	to take pity; to show compassion
憐惜	to take pity on; to feel tenderness toward
憐愛	to have tender affection for; to love tenderly; to pamper sb
憐憫	to take pity on; pity; mercy
憐香惜玉	to have tender, protective feelings for the fairer sex (idiom)
憑	to lean against; to rely on; on the basis of
憑什麼	(spoken) why?; for which reason?
憑仗	to rely on; to depend on
憑依	to rely on; to base oneself on
憑信	to trust
憑倚	to rely on
憑借	to rely on; to depend on; by means of
憑單	voucher; slip; certificate (used as proof to claim, collect or access sth)
憑弔	to visit a place for the memories; to pay homage to (the deceased)
憑恃	to depend on; to rely on
憑據	evidence
憑本能做事	to follow one's nose
憑條	paper docket confirming a transaction
憑欄	to lean on a parapet
憑準	evidence (that one can rely on); grounds (for believing sth)
憑照	certificate; license
憑眺	to lean on sth and gaze into the distance
憑祥市	Pingxiang, a county-level city in Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
憑票入場	admission by ticket only
憑空	baseless (lie); without foundation
憑空捏造	fabrication relying on nothing (idiom); frame-up
憑著	relying on; on the basis of
憑藉	to rely on; to depend on; by means of
憑證	proof; certificate; receipt
憑軾結轍	to drive non-stop as fast as one can (idiom)
憑陵	to ride roughshod over; to encroach
憑險	(to resist the enemy) relying on inaccessible territory
憑靠	to use; to rely on; by means of
憒	confused; troubled
憔	used in 憔悴[qiao2 cui4]
憔悴	wan and sallow; thin and pallid; haggard
憖	(literary) to wish; to prefer to; (literary) to incur damage or loss
憚	dread; fear; dislike
憝	dislike; hate
憤	indignant; anger; resentment
憤世嫉俗	to be cynical; to be embittered
憤怒	angry; indignant; wrath
憤恨	to hate; hatred; to resent
憤慨	to resent; resentment
憤憤	extremely angry
憤憤不平	to feel indignant; to feel aggrieved
憤懣	depressed; resentful; discontented
憤激	indignant; outraged
憤然	(literary) angry; irate
憤青	angry youth – highly nationalistic young Chinese people (abbr. for 憤怒青年|愤怒青年[feng4 nu4 qing1 nian2]) (neologism c. 1970s)
憧	used in 憧憬[chong1 jing3]; used in 憧憧[chong1 chong1]
憧憧	(of light, shadows) swaying; moving about; dancing
憧憬	to long for; to look forward to
憨	silly; simple-minded; foolish
憨厚	simple and honest; straightforward
憨子	(dialect) simpleton; idiot; fool
憨實	simple and honest
憨態	naive and innocent look
憨態可掬	(of pandas, ducklings etc) adorable; cute
憨直	honest and straightforward
憨豆先生	Mr. Bean (TV)
憩	to rest
憩室炎	diverticulitis
憩息處	rest area
憪	composed, contented
憫	to sympathize; to pity; to feel compassion for
憫惜	to feel compassion for
憬	awaken
憬然	to be aware; to be knowing
憭	clear; intelligible; severe
憮	(literary) to have tender affection for
憯	already; sorrowful
憲	statute; constitution
憲兵	military police
憲兵隊	military police corps
憲制	system of constitutional government; (attributive) constitutional
憲政	constitutional government
憲政主義	constitutionalism
憲法	constitution (of a country)
憲法法院	Constitutional Court
憲法監護委員會	Guardian Council, body of 12 appointed clerics which governs Iran
憲章	charter
憲章派	the Chartist movement (in the 1840s in England)
憶	to recollect; to remember; memory
憶苦思甜	to view one's past as miserable and one's present as happy (idiom)
憶苦飯	unsavory meal taken in remembrance of past hardships
憶述	to talk (or write) about one's recollections of past events
憷	to be afraid
憷場	to get stage fright
憷頭	to be afraid to stick out
憸	artful; flattering
憹	used in 懊憹|懊𢙐[ao4 nao2]
憺	peace
憾	regret (sense of loss or dissatisfaction)
憾事	a matter for regret; sth that is a (great) pity
憾恨	resentful; hateful
懂	to understand; to comprehend
懂事	to grow beyond the naivete of childhood; to be aware of what is going on in the world
懂哥	(slang) Mr. Know-it-all
懂局	to be savvy
懂得	to understand; to know; to comprehend
懂眼	(coll.) to know the ropes; an expert
懂行	to know the ropes
懂門兒	one who knows his business; professional; expert
懃	(literary) diligent; industrious; hardworking (variant of 勤[qin2])
懅	bashful; ashamed
懆	anxious; sad
懇	earnest
懇切	earnest; sincere
懇求	to beg; to beseech; to entreat
懇請	to request earnestly
懇辭	to decline with sincere thanks
懈	lax; negligent
懈弛	slack (discipline)
懈怠	slack; lazy; remiss
懈惰	slack; idle
懈氣	to slacken off; to take it easy
應	to agree (to do sth); should; ought to
應仁之亂	Ōnin war 1467-1477 between factions of Ashikaga shogunate
應付	to deal with; to cope
應付自如	to handle matters with ease (idiom); to hold one's own
應付裕如	handling any occasion smoothly (idiom); equal to any situation
應付賬款	accounts payable
應付過去	to muddle through
應允	to give one's assent; to consent; Taiwan pr. [ying4 yun3]
應分	(of a course of action) within one's area of responsibility; expected of one; obligatory (for a person in that role)
應制	to write a poem on the order of the Emperor
應力	stress (physics)
應力場	stress field
應卯	to answer the roll call at 卯時|卯时[mao3 shi2], i.e. between 5 and 7 am
應召	to respond to a call
應召女郎	call girl
應召站	call girl center
應名	nominally; in name only
應和	to echo one another; to respond (in agreement)
應城市	Yingcheng, a county-level city in Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
應天承運	lit. to respond to heaven and suit the times (idiom); to rule according to the will of heaven
應天順時	lit. to respond to heaven and suit the times (idiom); to rule according to the will of heaven
應對	to answer; to reply; to handle; to deal with; response
應對如流	to respond fluently; to answer smartly
應屆	this year's; the current year's
應屆生	student graduating in the current academic year; current-year graduate; fresh graduate
應屆畢業生	student graduating in the current year; recent graduate
應市	to respond to the market
應得	to deserve
應從	to assent; to comply with
應徵	to apply (for a job); to reply to a job advertisement
應急	to respond to an emergency; to meet a contingency
應急待命	emergency standby; to be on standby
應急照射	emergency exposure (nuclear energy)
應戰	to take up a challenge; to face an attack and meet it
應手	to handle; convenient
應承	to agree (to do sth); to promise
應接	to attend to; to deal with
應接不暇	more than one can attend to (idiom); deluged (with inquiries etc)
應援	(originally) to provide assistance
應收	(of a sum of money etc) receivable
應收賬款	accounts receivable
應敵	to face the enemy; to meet an attack
應時	timely; occasional
應景	according with the times; seasonal
應景兒	according with the times; seasonal
應有	to deserve (attention, respect etc)
應有盡有	everything that should be here is here (idiom); all one can think of is on hand
應機立斷	to act on an opportunity (idiom); to take prompt advantage of a situation
應激	stress (abbr. for 應激反應|应激反应[ying4 ji1 fan3 ying4])
應激反應	(physiological etc) stress
應激性	irritable; sensitive; excitable
應激源	stressor
應用	to put to use; to apply; practical; applied (science, linguistics etc)
應用層	application layer (computing)
應用平台	application platform (computing)
應用數學	applied mathematics
應用文	applied writing
應用物理	applied physics
應用科學	applied science
應用程序	(computing) program; application
應用程序接口	application programming interface (API)
應用程序編程接口	application programming interface (API)
應用程式	(Tw) (computing) program; application
應用程式介面	application programming interface (API) (Tw)
應用軟件	application software
應用軟體	(Tw) application software
應當	should; ought to
應答	to reply
應縣	Ying County or Yingxian, a county in Shuozhou City 朔州市[Shuo4 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
應縣木塔	the timber pagoda of the Fogong Temple in Ying County, Shanxi, built in 1056 (Song dynasty)
應考	to take an exam
應聘	to accept a job offer; to apply for an advertised position
應聘者	person taking a job; job applicant
應聲	an answering voice; to answer a voice; to respond
應聲蟲	yes-man; opinionless person
應舉	to sit for imperial examinations
應計	accrual (accounting)
應計基礎	accruals basis (accounting)
應許	to promise; to allow
應許之地	Promised Land
應訴	(of a defendant) to respond to a charge; to defend oneself
應診	to see patients (of doctor); to hold a surgery
應詔	to respond to an imperial decree
應試	to take an exam; (of an education system) to be exam-oriented
應試教育	exam-oriented education; teaching to the test
應該	ought to; should; must
應該的	(polite response) you're welcome; just doing my duty; no problem
應諾	to agree (to do sth); to promise
應變	to meet a contingency; to adapt oneself to changes
應變力	adaptability; resourcefulness
應變數	(math.) dependent variable
應變管理	change management (business)
應運	to conform with destiny; as the occasion demands
應運而生	to emerge to meet a historic destiny (idiom)
應選	to run for election; to be selected; to be elected
應邀	at sb's invitation; on invitation
應酬	to engage in social activities; to socialize
應采兒	Cherrie Ying Choi-Yi (1983–), actress
應門	to answer the door
應驗	to come true; to come about as predicted; to be fulfilled
應點	to act on one's word
懊	to regret
懊喪	dejected; despondent; depressed
懊悔	to feel remorse; to repent; to regret
懊惱	annoyed; vexed; upset
懊憹	anxious; brooding
懋	to be hardworking; luxuriant; splendid
懌	pleased; rejoice
懍	fear
懞	(literary) sincere; honest; genuine
懟	(Internet slang) to attack verbally; to publicly criticize; to call out
懠	angry
懣	melancholy
懣然	dejectedly
懤	used in 懤懤|㤽㤽[chou2 chou2]
懤懤	anxious; depressed
懥	enraged
懦	(bound form) cowardly; faint-hearted
懦夫	coward
懦弱	cowardly; weak
懨	used in 懨懨|恹恹[yan1 yan1]
懨懨	weak; worried; sickly; wan
懫	enraged; resentful; to hate
懮	grievous; relaxed
懮慮	(feel) anxiety; concern
懰	lovely; beautiful
懲	to punish; to reprimand; to warn
懲一儆百	lit. punish one to warn one hundred (idiom)
懲前毖後	lit. to punish those before to prevent those after (idiom); to criticize former mistakes firmly to prevent them happening again
懲惡揚善	to uphold virtue and condemn evil (idiom)
懲戒	to discipline; reprimand
懲治	to punish
懲罰	penalty; punishment; to punish
懲罰性	punitive
懲處	to punish; to administer justice
懲辦	to punish (someone); to take disciplinary action against (someone)
懵	(bound form) confused; ignorant
懵懂	confused; ignorant
懵懵懂懂	(idiom) confused; ignorant; muddle-headed
懵逼	(dialect) stupefied; dumbfounded
懶	lazy
懶人	lazy person
懶人包	(Tw) (neologism c. 2007) information presented in easily assimilable form (digest, summary, infographic etc)
懶人沙發	beanbag
懶得	to not feel like (doing sth); to be disinclined to
懶得搭理	not wishing to acknowledge sb; unwilling to respond
懶怠	lazy
懶惰	idle; lazy
懶散	indolent; negligent; slack
懶洋洋	lazily
懶漢	idle fellow; lazybones
懶癌	(humorous) extreme laziness
懶腰	a stretch (of one's body)
懶蛋	idler; sluggard
懶蟲	(coll.) lazybones
懶貓	drowsy or slow-moving cat; (fig.) a lazybones
懶音	(linguistics) phonological reduction; lazy pronunciation; allegro speech
懶驢上磨屎尿多	(proverb) A lazy person will find many excuses to delay working
懶骨頭	lazybones; beanbag
懶鬼	lazybones; idle bum
懷	bosom; heart; mind
懷仁堂	Huairen Hall or Huairentang, a building inside Zhongnanhai 中南海[Zhong1 nan2 hai3], used as the main meeting place of the Politburo of the CCP
懷仁市	Huairen, a county-level city in Shuozhou City 朔州市[Shuo4 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
懷來縣	Huailai, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
懷俄明	Wyoming, US state
懷化市	Huaihua, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
懷化縣	Huaihua county, Hunan
懷古	to recall the past; to cherish the memory of past events; to reminisce
懷妊	gestation; pregnancy
懷孕	pregnant; to have conceived; gestation
懷安縣	Huai'an, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
懷寧縣	Huaining, a county in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
懷念	to cherish the memory of; to think of; to reminisce
懷恨	to feel hatred; to harbor a grudge
懷恨在心	to harbor hard feelings
懷才不遇	to have talent but no opportunity (idiom)
懷抱	to hug; to cherish; within the bosom (of the family)
懷春	(of girls) to yearn for love
懷有	to have in one's person (feelings, talent etc)
懷柔	to conciliate; to appease
懷柔區	Huairou, a district of Beijing
懷氏虎鶇	(bird species of China) White's thrush (Zoothera aurea)
懷爐	hand warmer (fuel based)
懷特	White (name)
懷特島	Isle of Wight, island off the south coast of England
懷璧其罪	lit. treasuring a jade ring becomes a crime (idiom); to get into trouble on account of a cherished item
懷疑	to doubt (sth); to be skeptical of
懷疑派	the skeptics
懷祿	to yearn for a high official position
懷胎	to become pregnant; to carry a child in the womb
懷舊	to feel nostalgic; nostalgia
懷舊感	feeling of nostalgia
懷裡	embrace; bosom
懷遠縣	Huaiyuan, a county in Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
懷鄉	homesick
懷錶	pocket watch
懷集縣	Huaiji, a county in Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
懸	to hang or suspend; to worry; public announcement
懸停	to hover (helicopter, computer mouse etc)
懸垂	to hang down; to dangle; to be suspended
懸壺	(literary) to practice medicine; to work as a pharmacist
懸壺濟世	practice medicine or pharmacy to help the people or public
懸岩	cliff
懸崖	precipice; overhanging cliff
懸崖勒馬	lit. to rein in the horse at the edge of the precipice (idiom)
懸崖峭壁	(idiom) sheer cliffs and precipitous rock faces
懸帶	sling (for immobilizing an injured limb etc)
懸念	suspense in a movie, play etc; concern for sb's welfare
懸掛	to suspend; to hang; (vehicle) suspension
懸掛式滑翔	hang-gliding
懸掛式滑翔機	hang-glider
懸揣	to speculate; to conjecture
懸案	unresolved question; unresolved case
懸梯	suspended ladder
懸樑刺股	to study assiduously and tirelessly (idiom)
懸殊	vastly different; poles apart
懸河	"hanging" river (an embanked one whose riverbed is higher than the surrounding floodplain)
懸浮	to float (in the air etc); suspension
懸浮微粒	particulates; particulate matter
懸浮物	suspended matter
懸浮窗	(computing) floating window
懸疑	suspense
懸盪	to hang suspended; to dangle
懸空	to hang in the air; suspended in midair; (fig.) uncertain
懸空寺	Xuankong Temple or Suspended Temple near Yanyuan in Shanxi
懸索橋	suspension bridge
懸而未決	(idiom) pending a decision; hanging in the balance
懸臂	cantilever
懸賞	to offer a reward; bounty
懸賞令	an order to post a reward (for the capture of a criminal)
懸雍垂	uvula (biology)
懺	(bound form) to feel remorse
懺悔	to repent; (religion) to confess
懼	to fear
懼內	henpecked
懼怕	to be afraid
懼高症	acrophobia; fear of heights
懾	(bound form) to fear; to be cowed
懾人	intimidating; fearsome; (fig.) awe-inspiring; breathtaking; stunning
懾服	to overawe; to be scared into submission
懿	(literary) exemplary; virtuous
懿旨	an imperial decree
懿親	(formal) close kin; closest relative
戀	to feel attached to; to long for; to love
戀人	lover; sweetheart
戀家	home-loving; to feel a strong attachment to home life
戀屍癖	necrophilia
戀念	to have a sentimental attachment to (a place)
戀情	romantic love
戀愛	(romantic) love; in love; to have an affair
戀慕	to be enamored of; to have tender feelings for
戀戀	reluctant (to leave, to let go etc)
戀戀不捨	reluctant to part
戀戰	to zealously continue fighting
戀棧	to be reluctant to give up a post
戀歌	love song
戀母情結	Oedipus complex
戀父情結	Electra complex
戀物	(sexual) fetishism
戀物狂	(sexual) fetishism
戀物癖	(sexual) fetishism
戀童犯	pedophile
戀童癖	pedophilia
戀童者	child molester; pedophile
戀綜	dating reality show (abbr. for 戀愛綜藝節目|恋爱综艺节目[lian4 ai4 zong1 yi4 jie2 mu4])
戀腳癖	foot fetish
戀舊情結	dwelling on the past; difficulty in adapting to changes
戀足癖	foot fetish
戁	stand in awe
戄	to fear; to be in awe; sudden glance
戇	stupid (Wu dialect)
戇督	stupid, ignorant (Wu dialect)
戇頭戇腦	stupid (Wu dialect)
戈	dagger-axe; abbr. for 戈瑞[ge1 rui4]; (Tw) abbr. for 戈雷[ge1 lei2]
戈培爾	Joseph Goebbels (1897-1945), German Nazi leader and politician
戈壁	Gobi (desert)
戈壁沙漠	Gobi Desert
戈壁灘	Gobi desert
戈壁荒灘	barren sands of the Gobi desert
戈德斯通	Goldstone (name)
戈斯拉爾	Goslar, Germany
戈比	kopeck (unit of money, one hundredth of ruble) (loanword)
戈氏岩鵐	(bird species of China) Godlewski's bunting (Emberiza godlewskii)
戈氏金絲燕	(bird species of China) Germain's swiftlet (Aerodramus germani)
戈爾	Gore (name)
戈爾巴喬夫	Gorbachev
戈瑞	gray (unit of absorbed dose of ionizing radiation) (loanword)
戈船	armed vessel (of ancient times)
戈蘭高地	Golan Heights
戈雷	gray (unit of absorbed dose of ionizing radiation) (loanword) (Tw)
戊	fifth of the ten Heavenly Stems 十天干[shi2 tian1 gan1]; fifth in order
戊五醇	xylitol; also written 木糖醇[mu4 tang2 chun2]
戊午	fifty-fifth year E7 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1978 or 2038
戊唑醇	tebuconazole (antifungal agent)
戊型肝炎	hepatitis E
戊子	twenty-fifth year E1 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2008 or 2068
戊寅	fifteenth year E3 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1998 or 2058
戊巴比妥鈉	pentasorbital sodium (a sedative)
戊戌	thirty-fifth year E11 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1958 or 2018
戊戌六君子	the Six Gentlemen Martyrs of the failed reform movement of 1898, executed in its aftermath, namely: Tan Sitong 譚嗣同|谭嗣同[Tan2 Si4 tong2], Lin Xu 林旭[Lin2 Xu4], Yang Shenxiu 楊深秀|杨深秀[Yang2 Shen1 xiu4], Liu Guangdi 劉光第|刘光第[Liu2 Guang1 di4], Kang Guangren 康廣仁|康广仁[Kang1 Guang3 ren2] and Yang Rui 楊銳|杨锐[Yang2 Rui4]
戊戌政變	coup by Dowager Empress Cixi 慈禧太后[Ci2 xi3 tai4 hou4] ending the 1898 attempt to reform the Qing dynasty
戊戌維新	Hundred Days Reform (1898), failed attempt to reform the Qing dynasty
戊戌變法	Hundred Days Reform (1898), failed attempt to reform the Qing dynasty
戊申	forty-fifth year E9 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1968 or 2028
戊糖	pentose (CH2O)5, monosaccharide with five carbon atoms, such as ribose 核糖[he2 tang2]
戊辰	fifth year E5 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1988 or 2048
戊醇	amyl alcohol
戌	11th earthly branch: 7-9 p.m., 9th solar month (8th October-6th November), year of the Dog
戌時	7-9 pm
戌狗	Year 11, year of the Dog (e.g. 2006)
戍	garrison
戍卒	garrison soldier
戍守	to guard
戍角	garrison trumpet call
戍邊	to garrison the border; to guard the frontier
戎	generic term for weapons (old); army (matters); military affairs
戎事	military affairs
戎事倥傯	a time of military urgency; war crisis
戎機	opportunity for a fight; war
戎甲	weapons and armor
戎羯	ancient ethnic groups in northwestern China
戎行	troops; military affairs
戎衣	military uniform
戎裝	martial attire
戎車	military vehicle
戎馬	warhorse; armed forces; troops; (fig.) war; warfare
戎馬生涯	army life (idiom); the experience of war
成	surname Cheng; short name for Chengdu 成都[Cheng2 du1]
成丁	(of a male) to come of age; an adult male
成不了氣候	won't get far; unlikely to be successful
成串	to be lined up (like a chain of islands, a string of pearls etc)
成也蕭何，敗也蕭何	lit. raised up by Xiao He, cast down by Xiao He (idiom), alluding to Han Xin 韓信|韩信[Han2 Xin4] being made Grand General 大將軍|大将军[da4 jiang1 jun1]
成了	to be done; to be ready; that's enough!
成事	to accomplish the objective; to succeed
成事不足，敗事有餘	unable to accomplish anything but liable to spoil everything (idiom)
成交	to complete a contract; to reach a deal
成交價	sale price; negotiated price; price reached at auction
成人	to reach adulthood; an adult
成人之美	(idiom) beauty of helping others succeed; act of helping sb fulfill their wish
成人向	suitable for adults
成人用品	adult products; sex-related goods (condoms, lubricants, sex toys etc)
成人禮	coming of age ceremony
成仁	to die for a good cause
成仙	(Taoism) to become an immortal
成份股	share included in composite index
成何體統	What a scandal!; Whatever next?
成佛	to become a Buddha; to attain enlightenment
成例	an established precedent; a convention
成倍	twofold; manyfold; exponentially
成像	to form an image; imaging
成全	to help sb accomplish his aim; to help sb succeed; to complete
成分	composition; ingredient; element; component; one's social status
成則為王，敗則為寇	lit. called a king if successful, called a bandit if defeated (idiom)
成功	to succeed; success; successful; fruitful
成功大學	National Cheng Kung University (NCKU), a public research university in Tainan, Taiwan
成功感	sense of accomplishment
成化	Chenghua, reign title of the eighth Ming emperor (reigned 1465-1487)
成千	thousands
成千上萬	(lit.) by the thousands and tens of thousands (idiom)
成千成萬	lit. by the thousands and tens of thousands (idiom); untold numbers
成千累萬	lit. by the thousands and tens of thousands (idiom); untold numbers
成反比	to vary inversely; inversely proportional to
成吉思汗	Genghis Khan (1162-1227), founder and ruler of the Mongol Empire
成名	to make one's name; to become famous
成名作	seminal work that propels a writer (or artist, composer etc) to fame
成品	finished goods; a finished product
成品油	refined oil
成員	member
成員國	member country
成問題	to be a problem; problematic; questionable
成器	to make sth of oneself; to become a person who is worthy of respect
成因	cause; factor; cause of formation
成圈	to form a circle, ring or loop
成均館	Koryo Seonggyungwan, university dating back to Korean Goryeo dynasty, in Gaesong, North Korea
成型	to become shaped; to become formed
成報	Sing Pao Daily News
成夜	all night long
成大	National Cheng Kung University (abbr. for 成功大學|成功大学[Cheng2 gong1 Da4 xue2])
成天	(coll.) all day long; all the time
成套	forming a complete set; complementing one another
成婚	to get married
成安縣	Cheng'an, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
成家	to settle down and get married (of a man)
成家立室	to get married (idiom)
成家立業	to get married and start a career (idiom); to settle down
成實宗	Satyasiddhi school of Buddhism
成對	to form a pair
成就	accomplishment; success; achievement
成就感	sense of achievement
成層	layered; stratified
成年	to grow to adulthood; fully grown; adult; the whole year
成年人	adult person
成年累月	year in, year out (idiom)
成年者	adult
成形	to take shape; shaping; forming
成心	intentionally; deliberately; on purpose
成性	to become second nature; by nature
成才	to make sth of oneself; to become a person who is worthy of respect
成批	in batches; in bulk
成效	effect; result
成敗	success or failure
成敗利鈍	succeed or fail, sharp or blunt (idiom); advantages and disadvantages
成敗在此一舉	success or failure depends on this single action; win or lose, it all ends here; this is the make-or-break moment
成敗得失	lit. success and failure, the gains and losses (idiom)
成敗論人	to judge people based on their success or failure (idiom)
成教	adult education (abbr. for 成人教育[cheng2 ren2 jiao4 yu4])
成文	written; statutory
成文法	statute
成方	(TCM) set prescription (i.e. medicine specifically prescribed for a definite condition)
成方兒	erhua form of 成方[cheng2 fang1]
成日	all day long; the whole day; the whole time
成書	to finish (writing a book); to appear in book form
成本	(manufacturing, production etc) costs
成材	to make sth of oneself; to become a person who is worthy of respect
成果	result; achievement; gain
成核	nucleation
成樣	seemly; presentable
成樣子	seemly; presentable
成武縣	Chengwu, a county in Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
成活	to survive
成活率	survival rate; rate of success
成渝	Chengdu 成都 and Chongqing 重慶|重庆
成漢	Cheng Han of the Sixteen Kingdoms (304-347)
成災	disastrous; to turn into a disaster
成為	to become; to turn into
成熟	mature; ripe; to mature; to ripen; Taiwan pr. [cheng2shou2]
成片	(of a large number of things) to form an expanse; to cover an area
成田	Narita (Japanese surname and place name)
成田機場	Narita Airport (Tokyo)
成癮	to be addicted; addiction
成癮性	addictiveness
成百上千	hundreds; a large number; lit. by the hundreds and thousands
成真	to come true
成立	to establish; to set up; to be tenable
成章	to form a coherent composition
成精	(of an animal or tree etc) to become a spirit or goblin
成組	to make up (out of components)
成縣	Cheng County or Chengxian, a county in Longnan City 隴南市|陇南市[Long3 nan2 Shi4], Gansu
成績	achievement; performance records; grades
成績單	school report or transcript
成群	in groups; large numbers of; grouping
成群結隊	(idiom) making up a group; forming a troupe; in large numbers; as a large crowd
成聖	(Christianity) to be sanctified; to become holy
成色	relative purity of silver or gold; purity in carat weight; quality
成華區	Chenghua, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
成藥	patent medicine; medicine already made up
成蛹	to pupate; to become a chrysalis
成蟲	imago (adult, sexually mature insect, the final stage of its development)
成行	to embark on a journey
成衣	ready-made clothes
成見	preconceived idea; bias; prejudice
成規	established rules; the beaten track
成親	to get married
成話	to make sense
成語	Chinese set expression, typically of 4 characters, often alluding to a story or historical quotation; idiom; proverb; saying; adage
成語典故	historical or literary anecdote that gives rise to a saying
成語接龍	game where the last word of one idiom 成語|成语[cheng2 yu3] is the first of the next
成說	accepted theory or formulation
成象	to form an image; to call to mind
成軍	lit. to form an army; to set up (team, group, band, organization etc)
成道	to reach illumination (Buddhism)
成都市	Chengdu, sub-provincial city and capital of Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
成都體育大學	Chengdu Sports University
成長	to mature; to grow; growth
成長型思維	growth mindset
成長率	growth rate
成雙成對	to form pairs; to be in couples
成風	to become a common practice; to become a trend
成骨	bone formation; osteogenesis
成骨不全症	osteogenesis imperfecta (OI); brittle bone disease
成體	adult; fully formed; developed
成龍	Jackie Chan (1954-), kungfu film and Cantopop star
我	I; me; my
我也是醉了	(Internet slang) I can't even...; Are you kidding me!; OMG!
我人	we
我們	we; us; ourselves; our
我勒個去	(slang) shoot!; crap!
我去	(slang) what the ...!; oh my god!; that's insane!
我司	our company (used in business correspondence, contracts etc) (abbr. for 我方公司[wo3 fang1 gong1 si1])
我國	my country; our country
我操	(substitute for 我肏[wo3 cao4]) fuck; WTF
我方	our side; we
我曹	(archaic) we; us; (Internet slang) (substitute for 我肏[wo3 cao4]) fuck
我的世界	Minecraft (video game)
我等	we; us (archaic)
我肏	(vulgar) fuck; WTF
我行我素	to continue in one's own way (idiom)
我輩	(literary) we; us
我這個人	me personally; the sort of person I am
我這兒	where I am; my place
我醉欲眠	lit. I'm drunk and would like to sleep (idiom)
我靠	bosh!; crap!
戒	to guard against; to exhort; to admonish or warn
戒備	to take precautions; to guard against (emergency)
戒備森嚴	heavily-guarded
戒刀	Buddhist monk's knife (not used for killing)
戒命	prohibition
戒嚴	to impose martial law; to impose emergency measures
戒嚴令	martial law
戒嚴區	restricted area; zone of application of the martial law
戒壇	ordination platform in a Buddhist temple
戒奢崇儉	(idiom) to refrain from extravagance and cherish frugality
戒子	(finger) ring
戒律	monastic discipline; commandment
戒心	vigilance; wariness
戒忌	a taboo; to avoid sth (as taboo)
戒慎	vigilant; cautious
戒懼	wary
戒指	(finger) ring
戒斷	to quit (taking drugs, alcohol etc); withdrawal
戒條	commandment; precept
戒毒	to kick a drug habit; to abstain from drugs
戒毒所	drug rehabilitation center
戒治所	drug rehabilitation center
戒煙	to give up smoking
戒牒	Buddhist or Taoist ordination certificate issued by monastic authorities
戒絕	abstinence; to give up (a bad habit)
戒行	(Buddhism) to adhere strictly to the ethical precepts; asceticism
戒規	religious precept; taboo; rule
戒酒	to give up drinking; to abstain from drinking
戒除	to quit; to give up (a bad habit)
戒驕戒躁	to guard against pride and impatience (idiom); to remain modest and keep cool
戔	narrow; small
戔戔	small; tiny
戕	to kill; to injure; Taiwan pr. [qiang2]
戕害	to injure
或	maybe; perhaps; might
或多或少	more or less
或將	will perhaps; may (in the future)
或是	or; either one or the other
或然	probable
或然率	probability (math.)
或稱	also called; also known as; a.k.a.
或缺	to lack; to do without
或者	or; possibly; maybe; perhaps
或許	perhaps; maybe
或門	OR gate (electronics)
或體	variant Chinese character; alternative form of a Chinese character
戚	(bound form) relatives; kin; (bound form) grief; sorrow
戚友	relatives and friends
戚屬	relative; family member; dependent
戚戚	intimate; closely related; sorrowful
戚族	family members; fellow clansman
戚繼光	Qi Jiguang (1528-1588), military leader
戚誼	relation; close friendship
戛	lance; to tap; to scrape
戛戛	difficult; challenging; original
戛戛獨造	creative; original
戛然	(literary) to stop abruptly (of a sound); to be loud and clear
戛然而止	with a grunting sound it stops (idiom); to come to an end spontaneously (esp. of sound)
戛納	Cannes (France)
戟	halberd; long-handled weapon with pointed tip and crescent blade
戠	to gather
戡	kill; suppress
戢	to restrain oneself; to collect; to hoard
戣	a lance
戤	(dialect) to counterfeit (a brand-name product)
戥	small steelyard for weighing money
戧	contrary; pushing against; bump
戧風	against the headwind
戩	carry to the utmost; to cut
截	to cut off (a length); to stop; to intercept
截停	to intercept (a vehicle etc)
截取	to cut off a section of sth
截圖	(computing) screenshot; to take a screenshot
截塔	zeta (Greek letter Ζζ)
截奪	intercept
截尾	to dock; to trim (esp. the tail of an animal)
截屏	(computing) screenshot; to take a screenshot
截拳道	Jeet Kun Do or Way of the Intercepting Fist, a fusion of Eastern and Western martial arts led by Bruce Lee 李小龍|李小龙[Li3 Xiao3 long2]
截擊	to intercept (military)
截斷	to break or cut in two; to sever; to cut off
截止	to end; to close; (electricity) cut-off
截止到	(before an expression indicating a point of time) up to (that point); as of (that time)
截止日	deadline; cut-off date
截止期限	deadline
截止至	(before an expression indicating a point of time) up to (that point); as of (that time)
截然	sharply; distinctly; radically
截然不同	entirely different; different as black and white
截獲	to intercept; to cut off and capture
截癱	paraplegia; paralysis
截稿	(of a newspaper) to stop accepting incoming articles
截線	intersecting line
截肢	amputation (medicine); to amputate
截至	up to (a time); by (a time)
截距	intercept (the point at which a line crosses the x- or y-axis)
截長補短	take from the long to supplement the short (idiom)
截面	section; cross-section
戭	spear
戮	(bound form) to kill
戮力	(literary) to join forces; to exert every effort
戮力同心	(idiom) to join forces to work towards a common goal
戰	to fight; fight; war
戰亂	chaos of war
戰事	war; hostilities; fighting
戰俘	prisoner of war
戰備	war readiness; military preparedness
戰兢	to tremble; to be on guard
戰兢兢	shaking with fear
戰列艦	battleship
戰利品	spoils of war
戰力	military strength; military power; military capability
戰功	outstanding military service
戰勝	to prevail over; to defeat; to surmount
戰區	war zone; combat zone; (military) theater of operations
戰友	comrade-in-arms; battle companion
戰國	the Warring States period (475-221 BC)
戰國七雄	Seven Powerful States of the Warring States, namely: 齊|齐[Qi2], 楚[Chu3], 燕[Yan1], 韓|韩[Han2], 趙|赵[Zhao4], 魏[Wei4] and 秦[Qin2]
戰國時代	the Warring States period (475-221 BC)
戰國末	late Warring States period, c. 250-221 BC before the First Emperor's Qin Dynasty
戰國末年	late Warring States period, c. 250-221 BC before the First Emperor's Qin Dynasty
戰國策	"Strategies of the Warring States", chronicle of the Warring States Period (475-220 BC), possibly written by Su Qin 蘇秦|苏秦[Su1 Qin2]
戰團	fighting group; by extension, a fight; a fray
戰地	battlefield
戰報	battle report; (sports) match summary
戰場	battlefield
戰壕	trench; entrenchment
戰壕熱	trench fever
戰士	fighter; soldier; warrior
戰局	war situation
戰役	military campaign
戰後	after the war; postwar
戰慄	to tremble; shudder
戰戰兢兢	trembling with fear; with fear and trepidation
戰戰慄慄	to tremble with fear
戰抖	to shudder; to tremble
戰敗	to lose a war
戰斧	battle-ax
戰旗	a war flag; an army banner
戰時	wartime
戰書	written war challenge
戰機	opportunity in a battle; fighter aircraft; war secret
戰歌	battle song
戰死	to die in combat
戰死沙場	(idiom) to die in battle
戰況	battlefield situation; battle progress
戰法	military strategy
戰火	the flames of war; the ravages of war
戰火紛飛	fire of war everywhere (idiom); enveloped in the flames of war
戰無不勝	(idiom) all-conquering; invincible
戰無不勝，攻無不克	to triumph in every battle and win every fight (idiom); all-conquering
戰無不勝，攻無不取	to triumph in every battle and win every fight (idiom); all-conquering
戰爭	war; conflict
戰爭罪	war crime
戰爭與和平	War and Peace by Tolstoy 托爾斯泰|托尔斯泰
戰犯	war criminal
戰略	strategy
戰略夥伴	strategic partner
戰略家	a strategist
戰略性	strategic
戰略核力量	strategic nuclear force
戰略核武器	strategic nuclear weapon
戰略要點	strategic point
戰略轟炸機	strategic bomber
戰略防御倡議	strategic defense initiative (SDI)
戰禍	disastrous conflict; bloody warfare
戰端	outbreak of war; opening of hostilities
戰線	battle line; battlefront; front
戰績	military achievements; (fig.) record of performance in a competitive field (esp. win-loss record in sports)
戰船	warship
戰艦	battleship; warship
戰術	tactics
戰術導彈	tactical missile
戰術核武器	tactical nuclear weapons
戰袍	(old) combat robe; soldier's uniform; (sports) team jersey
戰車	war chariot; tank
戰酣	(literary) at the height of the battle
戰雲	war clouds; atmosphere of impending conflict
戰馬	warhorse
戰鬥	to fight; to engage in combat; struggle
戰鬥力	fighting strength
戰鬥機	fighter (aircraft)
戰鬥營	boot camp
戰鬥群	battle group; naval formation headed by an aircraft carrier
戰鬥者	fighter
戰鬥艦	battleship
戰鬥部	warhead
戲	trick; drama; play
戲份	scene (in a movie etc); one's part in a movie or play
戲仿	a parody; to parody
戲侮	to insult
戲偶	glove puppet
戲劇	a drama; a play; theater; script of a play
戲劇化	theatrical
戲劇化人格違常	histrionic personality disorder (HPD)
戲劇家	dramatist; playwright
戲劇性	dramatic
戲子	(derog.) Chinese opera performer; (derog.) actor
戲弄	to play tricks on; to make fun of; to tease
戲文	traditional Chinese opera; lyrics and spoken lines in Chinese opera
戲曲	Chinese opera
戲法	magic trick
戲眼	the best part (of a play etc)
戲碼	theatrical piece; (fig.) scenario (in real life)
戲票	(theater etc) ticket
戲稱	to jokingly call; jocular appellation
戲精	(neologism c. 2017) melodramatic person; drama queen
戲耍	to amuse oneself; to play with; to tease
戲臺	stage
戲言	joking matter; to go back on one's words
戲詞	actor's lines (in theater)
戲說	dramatic form consisting of historical narration
戲說劇	period costume drama (on TV)
戲謔	to banter; to crack jokes; to ridicule
戲院	theater; cinema
戳	to jab; to poke; to stab
戳不住	not up to it; cannot stand the test
戳份兒	to flaunt
戳個兒	physique
戳兒	stamp; seal
戳刺感	pins and needles (in muscle); paresthesia
戳咕	to stir up behind sb's back; to incite secretly
戳壁腳	to criticize behind sb's back; back-biting
戳子	stamp; seal
戳得住	up to it; can stand the test
戳心灌髓	(idiom) to strike at one's core; to deeply hurt sb
戳搭	to knock; to jab
戳痛點	to touch a nerve
戳破	to puncture; to pierce
戳禍	to stir up trouble
戳穿	to puncture; to lay bear or expose (lies etc)
戳穿試驗	puncture test
戳脊梁	to criticize behind sb's back; back-biting
戳脊梁骨	to criticize behind sb's back; back-biting
戳記	stamp; seal
戴	to put on or wear (glasses, hat, gloves etc); to respect; to bear
戴上	to put on (hat etc)
戴克里先	Diocletian (c. 245-311), Roman emperor
戴勝	(bird species of China) Eurasian hoopoe (Upupa epops)
戴名世	Dai Mingshi (1653-1713), early Qing writer
戴套	to wear a condom
戴奧辛	dioxin, carcinogenic heterocyclic hydrocarbon (esp. Taiwan usage)
戴孝	to wear mourning garb; to be in mourning
戴安娜	Diana (name)
戴安娜王妃	Diana, Princess of Wales (1961-1997)
戴帽子	to wear a hat; (fig.) to stigmatize; to be branded as
戴爾	Dell
戴盆望天	lit. viewing the sky with a basin on one's head; it is hard to get a clear view of the sky while carrying a platter on one's head
戴秉國	Dai Bingguo (1941-), a Chinese politician and professional diplomat
戴綠帽子	to have been cheated on by one's partner (formerly meant "to be a cuckold", i.e. applied to men only)
戴維	Davy; Davey; Davie
戴維斯	Davis or Davies (name)
戴維斯杯	Davis Cup (international tennis team competition)
戴維營	Camp David
戴菊	(bird species of China) goldcrest (Regulus regulus)
戴菊鳥	kinglet; bird of Regulus genus
戴錶	to wear a watch
戴高帽子	(coll.) to be the object of flattery; to be placed on a pedestal
戴高樂	Charles De Gaulle (1890–1970), French general and politician, leader of the Free French during World War II and president of the Republic 1959–1969
戶	a household; door; family
戶主	head of the household
戶內	indoors; within the home
戶口	population (counted as number of households for census or taxation)
戶口制	PRC system of compulsory registration of households
戶口制度	PRC system of compulsory registration
戶口名簿	(Tw) household registration certificate (identity document)
戶口本	household register; household registration booklet
戶口簿	household register
戶告人曉	to make known to every household (idiom); to disseminate widely
戶均	household average
戶型	configuration of rooms in a residence (e.g. 3BR 2 Bath)
戶外	outdoor
戶樞不蠹	lit. a door hinge never becomes worm-eaten
戶牖	door and window; the home
戶籍	census register; household register
戶部	Ministry of Revenue in imperial China
戶部尚書	Minister of Revenue (from the Han dynasty onwards)
戶限	threshold
戶限為穿	to have an endless stream of visitors (idiom)
戶頭	bank account
戺	door pivot
戽	water bucket for irrigation
戽斗	bailing bucket (tool for irrigating fields); protruding lower jaw
戽水	to draw water for irrigation (manually or with a water wheel)
戾	to bend; to violate; to go against
戾氣	evil tendencies; vicious currents; antisocial behavior
戾龍	mythical evil serpent
房	house; room; branch of an extended family
房下	(old) one's wife
房中房	room constructed within an existing room
房主	landlord; house owner
房事	sexual intercourse; to make love
房仲	real estate agent (Tw)
房價	house price; cost of housing
房勞	deficiency of kidney essence due to sexual excess (TCM)
房卡	room card (in a hotel)
房地產	real estate
房地美	Freddie Mac, US mortgage company
房契	deed (for a house)
房奴	a slave to one's mortgage
房子	house; building (single- or two-story); apartment
房客	tenant
房室	room
房屋	house; building
房屋中介	housing agent; real estate agent
房山區	Fangshan, a district of Beijing
房市	real estate market
房東	landlord
房梁	roof beam
房檐	eaves
房牙	real estate agent (old)
房牙子	real estate agent (old)
房玄齡	Fang Xuanling (579-648), Tang dynasty historian, compiler of History of Jin dynasty 晉書|晋书[Jin4 shu1]
房產	real estate; the property market (e.g. houses)
房產中介	real estate agent
房產證	title deeds; certificate of property ownership
房租	rent for a room or house
房縣	Fang County or Fangxian, a county in Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
房舍	house; building
房艙	(ship's) cabin
房貸	home loan
房費	room charge
房車	recreational vehicle
房錢	charges for a room; house rental
房門	door of a room
房間	room
房間裡的大象	the elephant in the room
房頂	housetop; roof
房顫	atrial fibrillation (abbr. for 心房顫動|心房颤动[xin1 fang2 chan4 dong4])
所	actually; place
所以	therefore; as a result; so
所以然	the reason why
所作所為	one's conduct and deeds
所到之處	wherever one goes
所剩無幾	there is not much left
所向披靡	(idiom) to sweep everything before one; to be invincible
所向無敵	to be invincible; unrivalled
所在	place; location; (after a noun) place where it is located
所在地	location; site
所多	Soto
所多瑪	Sodom
所多瑪與蛾摩拉	Sodom and Gomorrah
所屬	one's affiliation (i.e. the organization one is affiliated with)
所屬單位	affiliated unit; subsidiary
所幸	fortunately (formal writing)
所得	what one acquires; one's gains
所得稅	income tax
所思	what one thinks; person or thing that is on one's mind
所指	the objects indicated; as pointed out
所料	one's expectation; what one anticipates
所有	all; to have; to possess; to own
所有主	owner; proprietor
所有人	everyone; owner
所有制	ownership of the means of production (in Marxism); system of ownership
所有格	possessive case (grammar)
所有權	ownership; possession; property rights
所有物	a possession; belongings
所有者	proprietor; owner
所為	what one does; doings
所生	parents (father and mother)
所用非人	to choose the wrong person for the job
所知	known; what one knows
所羅巴伯	Zerubbabel (son of Shealtiel)
所羅門	Solomon (name)
所羅門群島	Solomon Islands
所聞	heard; what one hears
所能	according to one's capabilities; what sb is capable of
所致	to be caused by
所見	(literary) what one sees; (literary) opinion; view
所見即所得	What you see is what you get (WYSIWYG)
所見所聞	what one hears and sees (idiom)
所言非虛	(after a pronoun or name) what (you, they etc) say is true
所託非人	to entrust sth to the wrong person and get let down
所謂	what is meant by the expression ...; what is referred to as ...
所部	troops under one's command
所長	director; head of an institute, office or station
所需	necessary (for); required
所願	wished-for; desired
扁	flat; (coll.) to beat (sb) up
扁嘴海雀	(bird species of China) ancient murrelet (Synthliboramphus antiquus)
扁圓	oblate
扁坯	slab
扁平	flat; planar
扁平足	flat feet
扁形動物	flatworm; phylum of Platyhelminthes
扁擔	carrying pole; shoulder pole
扁擔星	Altair and its two adjacent stars
扁桃	almond tree; almond; flat peach
扁桃腺	tonsil
扁桃腺炎	tonsillitis
扁桃體	tonsil
扁桃體炎	tonsillitis
扁穴	tonsil; now written 扁桃體|扁桃体[bian3 tao2 ti3]
扁舟	(literary) small boat; skiff
扁虱	tick (zoology)
扁蟲	flatworm
扁豆	hyacinth bean; haricot
扁鍬形蟲	giant stag beetle (Dorcus titanus)
扁食	(dialect) Chinese-style dumpling (such as wonton, jiaozi etc)
扁骨	flat bone
扁鵲	秦越人[Qin2 Yue4 ren2] (407-310 BC), Warring States physician known for his medical skills, nicknamed Bian Que after the earliest known Chinese physician allegedly from the 黃帝|黄帝[Huang2 di4] era
扂	(literary) door latch
扃	(literary) to shut or bolt a door; door
扆	surname Yi
扇	fan; sliding, hinged or detachable flat part of sth
扇動	to fan; to flap; to incite
扇區	disk sector (computing)
扇子	fan
扇尾沙錐	(bird species of China) common snipe (Gallinago gallinago)
扇形	circular sector
扇葉	fan blade
扇蝦	fan lobster (esp. species of the genera Ibacus or Parribacus, both belonging to the slipper lobster family)
扇貝	scallop (genus Pecten)
扇面琴	same as yangqin 揚琴|扬琴, dulcimer
扇風	to fan oneself; to fan (sb)
扇風耳朵	protruding ears
扈	surname Hu
扉	door with only one leaf
扉畫	frontispiece; illustration placed before the main text of a book
扉頁	title page; flyleaf; end paper
扊	upright bar for fastening a door
手	hand; (formal) to hold; person engaged in certain types of work
手下	under one's control or administration; subordinates
手下敗將	(idiom) one's defeated opponent
手下留情	lit. start off leniently (idiom); please do not be too strict with me
手不釋卷	lit. always with a book in hand (idiom)
手交	handjob; manual stimulation
手倒立	handstand
手冊	manual; handbook
手刀	hand formed into a flat shape, as for a karate chop
手刃	to kill with one's own hand
手到拈來	lit. to stretch a hand and grab it (idiom); fig. easy to do
手到擒來	stretch a hand and grab it (idiom); very easy
手剎	handbrake
手剎車	handbrake
手勁	grip strength; hand strength
手動	manual; manually operated; manual gear-change
手動擋	manual gear change; shift stick
手動變速器	manual gearbox; manual transmission
手勢	gesture; sign; signal
手包	handbag
手印	handprint; fingerprint; thumbprint
手卷	temaki (a nori cone filled with sushi)
手套	glove; mitten
手套箱	glove compartment (of a car)
手定	to set down (rules); to institute
手寫	to write by hand
手寫筆	(computing) stylus pen
手寫識別	handwriting recognition
手寫體	handwritten form; cursive
手嶌葵	TESHIMA Aoi (1987-), Japanese female pop singer
手工	handwork; manual
手工業	handicraft
手工檯	workbench
手工藝	handicraft; arts and crafts
手巧	to be skillful with one's hands; to be manually adroit
手巾	hand towel; handkerchief
手帕	handkerchief
手帳	notebook; pocket diary
手式	gesture; sign; signal
手影	hand shadow drama
手心	palm (of one's hand)
手心手背都是肉	lit. both the palm and the back of the hand are made of flesh (idiom)
手忙腳亂	(idiom) to act with confusion or in a disorderly manner; flustered
手性	chiral; chirality (chemistry)
手感	the feel (of sth touched with the hand); (textiles) handle
手扳葫蘆	lever hoist pulley
手抄本	manuscript copy of a book (before the printing press)
手把	handle
手把手	(of instruction) step-by-step; hands-on
手抓羊肉	hand-held mutton (mutton pieces on the bone, eaten with the fingers)
手抓飯	pilaf (rice dish popular in many parts of the world, including Xinjiang)
手抓餅	fluffy, flaky pancake (made with dough, not batter)
手拉手	to join hands; hand in hand
手拉葫蘆	hand chain pulley block
手拉車	cart
手拿	to hold in one's hand
手拿包	clutch bag
手指	finger
手指頭	fingertip; finger
手掌	palm
手排	(Tw) manual transmission (abbr. for 手動排檔|手动排档[shou3 dong4 pai2 dang4])
手掣	handbrake; game controller (Cantonese)
手控	manual control
手推車	trolley; cart; barrow
手提	portable
手提包	(hand)bag; hold-all
手提箱	suitcase
手提電腦	portable computer
手搓	to make by hand; to hand-craft
手搖	hand-cranked
手搖柄	hand crank
手搖風琴	hand organ; hurdy-gurdy
手搖飲料	hand-mixed drink (of the kind sold at a bubble tea shop)
手搭涼棚	to shade one's eyes with one's hand
手書	to write personally; personal letter
手札	(literary) personal letter
手杖	cane
手板葫蘆	lever pulley block
手柄	handle; video game controller
手榴彈	hand grenade
手槍	pistol
手機	cell phone; mobile phone
手機卡	SIM card
手機條碼	(Tw) a barcode presented at checkout, used to electronically save the receipt 統一發票|统一发票[tong3 yi1 fa1 piao4] to the customer’s cloud account
手機殼	cell phone case
手欠	(coll.) prone to touch things one should keep one's hands off of
手殘	(coll.) klutz
手段	method; way; means (of doing sth); skill; ability; trick; wile
手氣	luck (in gambling)
手法	technique; trick; skill
手洗	to hand-wash
手活	manipulation (e.g. ball handling in sport); hand job
手淫	to masturbate; masturbation
手滑	to do sth by mistake (with one's hand)
手無寸鐵	lit. not an inch of steel (idiom); unarmed and defenseless
手無縛雞之力	(lit.) lacking the strength even to truss a chicken (saying)
手牽手	hand in hand
手球	handball (the game or the ball itself); handball (a foul in soccer)
手環	wristband; bracelet
手用	hand-used; hand (tool)
手癢	(fig.) to itch (to do sth)
手相	palmistry; features of a palm (in palmistry)
手眼協調	hand-eye coordination
手眼通天	(idiom) to be highly influential and well-connected; to have the ability to get things done through one's connections and influence
手稿	manuscript; script
手章	private seal
手筆	sth written or painted in one's own hand
手筋	flexor tendon (coll.)
手紙	toilet paper
手絹	handkerchief
手緊	tightfisted; stingy; short of money
手縫	to sew by hand; hand-sewn
手繪	to paint by hand; to draw by hand; hand-painted; hand-drawn
手續	procedure; formalities
手續費	service charge; processing fee; commission
手肘	elbow
手背	back of the hand
手脖子	wrist (dialect)
手腕	wrist; trickery; finesse
手腕子	wrist
手腕式	wrist- (watch, compass)
手腳	hand and foot; movement of limbs; action
手腳不乾淨	thieving; light-fingered; prone to stealing
手臂	arm (from shoulder to wrist); (fig.) assistant; helper
手自一體	manumatic
手舉牌	handheld sign; placard
手舞足蹈	lit. to move one's hands and feet about (idiom); fig. to dance about
手藝	craftmanship; workmanship; handicraft
手術	(surgical) operation; surgery
手術室	operating room
手術檯	operating table
手術鑷	surgical forceps
手裡	in hand; (a situation is) in sb's hands
手裡劍	straight or circular throwing-knife used by ninja and samurai (loanword from Japanese 手裏剣 shuriken)
手製	to make by hand; handmade
手記	to take notes; one's notes
手語	sign language
手諭	(literary) handwritten instruction from a superior or elder
手賤	(coll.) prone to touch things one should keep one's hands off of
手足	hands and feet; (fig.) brothers; retinue, henchmen, accomplices
手足之情	brotherly affection
手足口病	hand foot and mouth disease, HFMD, caused by a number of intestinal viruses, usually affecting young children
手足口症	human hand foot and mouth disease, a viral infection
手足無措	at a loss to know what to do (idiom); bewildered
手足親情	brotherly kindness
手跡	sb's original handwriting or painting
手軟	to be lenient; to relent; to be reluctant to make a hard decision
手辦	garage kit; action figure; model figure
手速	speed of hand movement (esp. in gaming, typing or fast-response situations)
手遊	mobile game; abbr. for 手機遊戲|手机游戏
手邊	on hand; at hand
手銬	manacles; handcuffs
手鋸	handsaw
手錘	mallet; drumstick
手錶	wristwatch
手鏈	chain bracelet
手鐲	bracelet
手鑽	gimlet; hand drill
手閘	handbrake
手雷	grenade
手電	flashlight; torch
手電筒	flashlight; electric hand torch
手頭	on hand; at hand; one's financial situation
手頭現金	cash in hand
手頭緊	short of money; hard up
手頸	(dialect) wrist
手風琴	accordion
手鬆	liberal with one's money; free-spending
扌	"hand" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 64), occurring in 提, 把, 打 etc
才	ability; talent; sb of a certain type; a capable individual
才不	by no means; definitely not; as if!
才兼文武	talent in both military and civil field (idiom)
才分	ability; talent; gift
才女	talented girl
才媛	(literary) talented and accomplished woman
才子	gifted scholar
才子佳人	lit. gifted scholar, beautiful lady (idiom); fig. pair of ideal lovers
才學	talent and learning; scholarship
才幹	ability; competence
才德	talent and virtue
才思	imaginative power; creativeness
才怪	it'd be a wonder if... (following a verb phrase that is usually negative)
才智	ability and wisdom
才氣	talent (usually literary or artistic)
才氣過人	an outstanding talent (idiom); surpassing insight and acumen
才略	ability and sagacity
才疏學淺	(humble expr.) of humble talent and shallow learning (idiom); Pray forgive my ignorance,...
才能	talent; ability; capacity
才華	talent
才華出眾	outstanding talent (idiom); incomparable artistic merit
才華橫溢	brimming over with talent (esp. literary); brilliant
才華蓋世	peerless talent (idiom); incomparable artistic merit
才藝	talent
才藝秀	talent show
才識	ability and insight
才識過人	an outstanding talent (idiom); surpassing insight and acumen
才貌雙全	talented and good-looking (idiom)
才高八斗	(idiom) of great talent
扎	to prick; to run or stick (a needle etc) into
扎伊爾	Zaire, former name of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
扎住	to stop; Taiwan pr. [zha3 zhu4]
扎克伯格	Mark Zuckerberg (1984-), American computer programer, co-founder and CEO of Facebook
扎啤	draft beer
扎囊縣	Zhanang, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
扎堆	(of people) to flock together; to congregate
扎實	strong; solid; sturdy
扎帶	cable tie
扎心	heartrending; deeply distressing
扎扎	(onom.) crunch (of marching feet etc)
扎扎實實	firm; solid; reliable
扎根	to take root
扎格羅斯	Zagros mountains of southwest Iran
扎格羅斯山脈	Zagros mountains of southwest Iran
扎款	(slang) to obtain money; to earn money
扎爾達里	Asif Ali Zardari (1956-), Pakistani People's Party politician, widower of murdered Benazir Bhutto, president of Pakistan from 2008-2013
扎猛子	to swim with head submerged
扎眼	garish; dazzling; offensively conspicuous
扎穿	to prick; to puncture
扎蘭屯市	Zhalantun, a county-level city in Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
扎賚特	Jalaid or Zhalaid (name)
扎賚特旗	Jalaid banner, Mongolian Zhalaid khoshuu, in Hinggan league 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 meng2], east Inner Mongolia
扎賚諾爾區	Jalainur, a district of Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
扎針	to give or have an acupuncture treatment
扎魯特	Jarud banner or Jarud khoshuu in Tongliao 通遼|通辽[Tong1 liao2], Inner Mongolia
扎魯特旗	Jarud banner or Jarud khoshuu in Tongliao 通遼|通辽[Tong1 liao2], Inner Mongolia
扐	divination by straw
扒	to rake up; to steal; to braise
扒屋牽牛	to sack the home and lead off the cattle (proverb)
扒手	pickpocket
扒拉	(coll.) to push food from one's bowl into one's mouth with chopsticks (usu. hurriedly)
扒摟	to gather together as with a rake
扒灰	incest between father-in-law and daughter-in-law
扒皮	to flay; to skin; (fig.) to exploit
扒竊	to steal; to pick pockets; to frisk
扒糕	buckwheat pudding (snack of buckwheat noodles with sauce)
扒糞	muckraking; to stir up scandal; to expose (corruption)
扒車	to pull oneself up onto a moving vehicle
扒釘	cramp
扒開	to pry open or apart; to spread (sth) open with both hands
扒頭兒	handhold (to pull oneself up)
扒飯	to push food into one's mouth using chopsticks while holding one's bowl up to one's mouth
扒高踩低	crawl high, step low (idiom); unprincipled crawling, flattering one's superiors and trampling on one's juniors
打	(loanword) dozen; Taiwan pr. [da3]
打call	(slang) to cheer sb on; to show one's support ("call" read as the English word)
打一巴掌，給個甜棗	lit. to give sb a slap, then offer a sweet date (idiom)
打下	to lay (a foundation); to conquer (a city etc)
打下手	to act in a supporting role; fig. to play second fiddle
打不通	cannot get through (on phone)
打不過	to be unable to defeat; to be no match for (sb)
打中	to hit (a target)
打井	to dig a well
打交道	to come into contact with; to have dealings
打仗	to fight a battle; to go to war
打住	to stop; to halt
打來回	to make a round trip; a return journey
打保票	to vouch for; to guarantee
打倒	to overthrow; to knock down; Down with ... !
打假	to fight counterfeiting; to expose as false; to denounce sb's lies
打假球	game-fixing; to fix games
打傘	to hold up an umbrella
打傷	to injure; to wound; to damage
打光	(photography, filmmaking) to set up the lighting; to illuminate a scene
打光棍	to live as a bachelor
打兌	to arrange (colloquial)
打入	to penetrate; to break into (a market, social group etc); to infiltrate (enemy ranks etc)
打入冷宮	(idiom) to snub; to consign to the trash heap of history
打冷戰	to shiver; to shudder
打出手	to fling back weapons hurled at one by attackers (acrobatic performance in Chinese opera)
打分	to grade; to give a mark
打分數	to grade (a student's work); to rate (sb's performance); to give a score
打前站	to set out in advance to make arrangements (board, lodging etc)
打劫	to loot; to rob; to plunder
打動	to move (to pity); arousing (sympathy); touching
打勾	to check; to tick; (old) to buy
打包	to wrap; to pack; to put leftovers in a doggy bag for take-out
打包票	to vouch for; to guarantee
打千	genuflection, a form of salutation in Qing times performed by men, going down on the right knee and reaching down with the right hand
打卡	(of an employee) to clock on (or off); to punch in (or out)
打卦	to tell sb's fortune using divinatory trigrams
打印	to affix a seal; to stamp; to print out (with a printer)
打印機	printer
打印稿	printout; hard copy
打印頭	print head
打口	(of CDs, videos etc) surplus (or "cut-out") stock from Western countries, sometimes marked with a notch in the disc or its case, sold cheaply in China (beginning in the 1990s), as well as Eastern Europe etc
打吊瓶	to put sb on an intravenous drip
打吊針	to put sb on an intravenous drip
打呃	to hiccup
打呵欠	to yawn
打呼	to snore
打呼嚕	to snore
打哄	to fool around; to kid around
打哆嗦	to tremble; to shiver (of cold); to shudder
打哈哈	to joke; to laugh insincerely; to make merry
打哈欠	to yawn
打哪兒指哪兒	(coll.) to act first and then claim the outcome was intended; to act without a clear aim and justify it afterward (ironic reversal of 指哪兒打哪兒|指哪儿打哪儿[zhi3 na3 r5 da3 na3 r5], where one aims clearly and executes with precision)
打問	to inquire about; to give sb the third degree
打啞語	to use sign language
打啞謎	to talk in riddles
打啵	(dialect) to kiss
打嗝	to hiccup; to belch; to burp
打嘴	to slap sb's face; to slap one's own face
打嘴巴	to slap
打噴嚏	to sneeze
打嚏噴	to sneeze
打圓場	to help to resolve a dispute; to smooth things over
打地鋪	to make one's bed on the floor
打地鼠	Whac-A-Mole (game)
打坐	to sit in meditation; to meditate
打坐坡	(of a horse, dog etc) to sit back on one's haunches and refuse to be coaxed forward
打垮	to defeat; to strike down; to destroy
打埋伏	to lie in wait; to ambush; to conceal sth
打場	to thresh grain (on the floor)
打壓	to suppress; to beat down
打天下	to seize power; to conquer the world
打太極	to practice tai chi; (fig.) to avoid responsibility; to pass the buck
打夯	to ram; to tamp
打奶	lit. to beat milk; to churn (to make butter)
打孔	to punch a hole
打孔卡	(computing) punch card
打孔器	hole puncher
打孔鑽	auger; drill
打字	to type (using a keyboard, typewriter or phone etc)
打字員	typist
打字機	typewriter
打官司	to file a lawsuit; to sue; to dispute
打官腔	to talk officiously; to assume the air of a functionary
打官話	to talk officiously; to assume the air of a functionary
打定主意	to make up one's mind
打家劫舍	to break into a house for robbery (idiom)
打富濟貧	to rob the rich to help the poor (idiom)
打對仗	to compete
打對台	to compete; to rival
打小	(dialect) from childhood; from a young age
打小報告	(coll.) to tattletale; to rat on sb
打小算盤	lit. to count on a narrow abacus (idiom); petty and scheming selfishly
打尖	to stop for a snack while traveling
打屁	(coll.) to fart; (coll.) to shoot the breeze
打屁股	to spank sb's bottom
打層次	to get one's hair layered
打岔	interruption; to interrupt (esp. talk); to change the subject
打工	to work a temporary or casual job
打工人	worker
打工仔	young worker; employee; young male worker
打工妹	young female worker
打席	(baseball) plate appearance (PA)
打底	to lay a foundation (also fig.); to make a first sketch
打底子	to sketch; to draft; to lay the foundation
打底褲	leggings
打得火熱	(idiom) to be on very good terms with each other
打從	from; (ever) since
打心眼裡	from the bottom of one's heart; heartily; sincerely
打怵	to fear; to feel terrified
打悶雷	(coll.) to wonder secretly; to make wild conjectures
打情罵俏	to banter flirtatiously (idiom)
打成	to beat (sb or sth) into (a certain condition)
打成一片	(idiom) to become as one (with a particular group of people); to mix well; to bond
打成平手	to draw (a competition); to fight to a standstill
打戲	(opera, drama, film) fight scene
打手	hired thug
打手槍	to masturbate
打手語	to use sign language
打扮	to decorate; to dress; to make up
打把勢	drill (in sword play); to thrash around
打折	to give a discount
打折扣	to give a discount; to be of less value than anticipated
打抱不平	(idiom) to aid sb suffering an injustice; to fight for justice
打拋	holy basil (Ocimum tenuiflorum) (loanword from Thai "kaphrao") (used as an attributive in the names of Thai-style "phat kaphrao" dishes to indicate that the main ingredient is stir-fried with basil, as in 打拋豬|打抛猪[da3 pao1 zhu1], stir-fried pork with basil)
打拋豬	stir-fried pork with basil; pork phat kaphrao
打拍	to beat time; to mark rhythm on drum or clapper boards
打拍子	to beat time
打招呼	to greet sb by word or action; to give prior notice
打拱	to bow with clasped hands
打拱作揖	to bow respectfully with clasped hands; to beg humbly
打拳	to do shadowboxing
打拼	to work hard; to try to make a living
打挺兒	to arch one's body and fling one's head back
打掃	to clean; to sweep
打掃衛生	to do the cleaning; to clean up
打掉	to tear down; to destroy; to dismantle (a gang)
打掉門牙，往肚子裡嚥	lit. to swallow one's knocked-out teeth after getting punched in the face (idiom)
打探	to make discreet inquiries; to scout out
打撈	to salvage; to dredge; to fish out (person or object from the sea)
打撲克	to play cards; to play poker
打擂臺	(old) to fight on the leitai; (fig.) to enter a contest
打擊	to hit; to strike; to attack
打擊報復	(idiom) to retaliate
打擊樂器	percussion instrument
打擊率	batting average (baseball etc)
打擦邊球	to bend the rules; to skirt around the issue
打擺子	(coll.) to suffer from malaria
打擾	to disturb; to bother; to trouble
打擾了	sorry to interrupt you, but ...; sorry to have bothered you
打攪	to disturb; to trouble; to bother
打敗	to defeat; to overpower; to beat
打散	to scatter; to break sth up; to beat (an egg)
打整	to arrange; to put in order; to tidy up
打新	(finance) to participate in an IPO (initial public offering)
打斷	to interrupt; to break off; to break (a bone)
打旋	to revolve
打早	earlier; long ago; as soon as possible
打更	to sound the night watches (on clappers or gongs, in former times)
打杈	to prune (branches)
打架	to fight; to scuffle; to come to blows
打柴	to chop firewood; to gather firewood
打格子	to draw a rectangular grid (e.g. of farmland); to checker
打棍子	to bludgeon; to hit with a big stick
打棚	(dialect) to joke
打槍	to fire a gun; to substitute for sb in sitting an examination
打樁	to drive piles into
打樁機	pile driver (machinery)
打橫炮	to butt in; to interfere; to make things difficult
打檔	(Tw) to change gears
打檔車	(Tw) manual transmission motorcycle (usually denotes a traditional-style motorcycle, as opposed to a scooter)
打死	to kill; to beat to death
打殺	to kill
打比方	to make an analogy; to illustrate by analogy
打氣	to inflate; to pump up; (fig.) to encourage; to boost morale
打氣筒	bicycle pump
打水	to draw water; to splash water
打水漂	to skip stones (on water)
打油詩	humorous poem; limerick
打法	to play (a card); to make a move in a game
打洞	to punch a hole; to drill a hole; to dig a hole
打消	to dispel (doubts, misgivings etc); to give up on
打混	to muddle things up; to goof off; to hang around
打游擊	to wage guerrilla warfare; to fight as a guerrilla
打滑	to skid; to slip; to slide
打滾	to roll about
打火機	lighter; cigarette lighter
打火石	flint
打炮	to open fire with artillery; to set off firecrackers
打烊	to close shop in the evening; also pr. [da3 yang2]
打爆	to blow out; to blow off; (computer games) to zap
打牌	to play mahjong or cards
打牙祭	to have a large and sumptuous meal (traditionally on the 1st and 15th of each month)
打狗	Takow, Takao or Takau, old name for Kaohsiung 高雄[Gao1 xiong2] in the southwest of Taiwan
打狗欺主	to beat a dog and bully its owner
打狗還得看主人	lit. when one beats a dog, one must answer to its master (idiom)
打獵	to go hunting
打球	to play ball; to play with a ball
打理	to take care of; to sort out; to manage
打瓜	a smaller variety of watermelon, with big, edible seeds
打發	to dispatch sb to do sth; to make sb leave; to pass (the time)
打發時間	to pass the time
打白條	to write an IOU or promissory note
打的	(coll.) to take a taxi; to go by taxi
打盹	to doze off
打眼	to drill or bore a hole; to attract attention; conspicuous
打瞌睡	to doze; to nod off
打短兒	casual labor; to work for a bit
打破	to break; to smash
打破砂鍋問到底	to go to the bottom of things (idiom)
打砸	to smash up; to vandalize
打碎	to shatter; to smash; to break into pieces
打碟師	DJ (disc jockey)
打碼	to pixelate an image; to key in captcha authentication codes
打磨	to polish; to burnish; to shine
打禪	to meditate (of Buddhist)
打稿子	to produce a draft manuscript
打穀	to thresh
打穀場	threshing floor
打穀機	threshing machine
打窩	(angling) to throw groundbait into an area of water
打箍	to hoop; to put a hoop around sth
打算	to plan; to intend; to calculate
打算盤	to compute on the abacus; (fig.) to calculate; to plan
打結	to tie a knot; to tie
打網	to net sth; to catch sth with a net
打緊	important
打罵	to beat and scold
打翻	to overturn; to overthrow; to strike down (an enemy)
打翻身仗	to work hard towards a turnaround; to fight to reverse sth
打耳光	to slap on the face; to box sb's ears
打聽	to ask about; to make some inquiries; to ask around
打胎	to have an abortion
打腫臉充胖子	lit. to swell one's face up by slapping it to look imposing (idiom); to seek to impress by feigning more than one's abilities
打膠槍	sealant gun; glue gun
打臉	to paint one's face with stage makeup
打草	to mow grass; haymaking; to write a rough draft (of an essay etc)
打草驚蛇	lit. beat the grass to scare the snake (idiom)
打落水狗	lit. to beat a drowning dog (idiom)
打薄剪刀	thinning scissors
打藥	to spray agricultural chemicals
打蘭	dram (1⁄16 ounce) (loanword)
打蛇不死，反受其害	(proverb) if you deal with a threat but fail to eliminate it, it may come back to harm you
打蛋器	egg beater
打蟲	to swat an insect; to get rid of intestinal parasite with drugs
打蠟	to wax (a car, floor etc)
打衝鋒	to lead the charge
打製	to make (by hammering, chipping etc)
打製石器	(archaeology) chipped stone implement
打諢	to intersperse comic remarks (in a performance); (fig.) to quip
打賞	to reward; to tip; to give a gratuity
打賭	to bet; to make a bet; a wager
打賴	to deny; to disclaim; to disavow
打贏	to win; to beat (one's opponent)
打赤腳	to bare the feet
打赤膊	to bare one's chest; bare-chested
打趔趄	to trip; to miss a step; to slip
打趣	to make fun of
打跑	to run off rebuffed; to fend off; (to fight off and make sb) run off
打跟頭	to turn a somersault; to turn head over heels
打躉兒	to buy wholesale
打躬作揖	to bow respectfully with clasped hands; to beg humbly
打車	to take a taxi (in town); to hitch a lift
打轉	to spin; to rotate; to revolve
打退	to beat back; to repel; to repulse
打退堂鼓	lit. to beat the return drum (idiom); fig. to give up; to turn tail
打通	to open access; to establish contact; to remove a block
打通宵	to spend the whole night
打造	to forge (metal); (fig.) to create; to build; to develop
打進	to breach; to invade
打遊戲	to play a game
打道回府	to go home (in a ceremonial procession); to return home
打邊爐	(Cantonese) to eat hot pot; hot pot
打邊鼓	to echo what sb said
打酒	to buy liquor
打醬油	to buy soy sauce
打野	(gaming) to play as the jungler; to farm neutral monsters in the jungle
打野炮	(slang) to have sex outdoors or in a public place
打量	to size sb up; to look sb up and down; to take the measure of
打針	to give or get an injection
打鈴	to ring a bell
打鉤	to tick; to check; tick mark
打錢	to collect money from sb; to give money to sb
打錯	to err; to dial a wrong number; to make a typo
打錶	to run the meter (in a taxi)
打鐵	to forge ironware
打鑔	(dialect) to joke; to make fun of (sb)
打長工	to work as long-term hired hand
打長途	to make a long distance call
打門	to knock on the door; to take a shot on goal (sports)
打開	to open; to show (a ticket); to turn on
打開天窗說亮話	(let's) not mince words; (let's) not beat about the bush
打開話匣子	to start talking
打雜	to do odd jobs; to do unskilled work
打雜的	odd-jobs worker
打雞血	lit. to inject chicken blood
打雪仗	to have a snowball fight
打雷	to rumble with thunder; clap of thunder
打電動	(Tw) to play video games
打電話	to make a telephone call
打靶	target shooting
打響	to start shooting or firing; to win an initial success
打響名號	to become well-known
打響指	to snap one's fingers
打響鼻兒	(of a horse etc) to snort
打頓	to pause
打頭陣	to take the lead
打顫	to shiver; to tremble
打飛機	(slang) (of a male) to masturbate; to jerk off
打食	to go in search of food (of animals)
打飯	to get food at a canteen
打饢	(dialect) to bake naan
打馬虎眼	to play dumb; to slack off (idiom)
打馬賽克	to censor an image; to pixelate
打鬥	to fight
打鬧	to quarrel; to squabble
打魚	to fish
打鳥	to shoot a bird (with a gun, slingshot etc); to photograph birds
打鳴	(of a rooster) to crow
打麻雀運動	the Great Sparrow Campaign or the Four Pests Campaign, one of the actions during the Great Leap Forward 大躍進|大跃进[Da4 yue4 jin4] aiming to eliminate four pests: rats, flies, mosquitoes, and sparrows
打黑	to crack down on illegal activities; to fight organized crime
打點	to bribe; to get (luggage) ready; to put in order
打點滴	to put sb on an intravenous drip
打鼓	to beat a drum; to play a drum; (fig.) to feel nervous
打鼾	to snore
打齋	to beg for (vegetarian) food
扔	to throw; to throw away
扔下	to throw down; to drop (bomb)
扔掉	to throw away; to throw out
扔棄	to abandon; to discard; to throw away
払	to take; to fetch
托	to hold up in one's hand; to support with one's palm
托付	to entrust
托克勞	Tokelau (territory of New Zealand)
托克托	Togtoh county, Mongolian Togtox khoshuu, in Hohhot 呼和浩特[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4], Inner Mongolia
托克托縣	Togtoh, a county in Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
托克遜縣	Toksun, a county in Turpan City 吐魯番市|吐鲁番市[Tu3 lu3 fan1 Shi4], Xinjiang
托兒	(coll.) shill; tout; phony customer who pretends to buys things so as to lure real customers
托兒所	nursery
托利黨	Tory Party
托勒密	Ptolemy, kings of Egypt after the partition of Alexander the Great's Empire in 305 BC
托勒密王	Ptolemy, kings of Egypt after the partition of Alexander the Great's Empire in 305 BC
托勒玫	Ptolemy or Claudius Ptolemaeus (c. 90-c. 168), Alexandrian Greek astronomer, mathematician and geographer, author of the Almagest 天文學大成|天文学大成
托卡塔	toccata (music) (loanword)
托卡馬克	(physics) (loanword) tokamak
托塔天王	the pagoda bearing god
托尼	(name) Tony
托尼老師	(neologism) (slang) barber; hairdresser
托庇	to rely on sb for protection
托底	to support the bottom of sth; (fig.) to provide a safety net
托拉博拉	Tora Bora, cave complex in the White Mountains of eastern Afghanistan
托拉斯	trust (commerce) (loanword)
托拉爾	(loanword) tolar, currency of Slovenia 1991-2007
托木爾	Mt Tomur (Russian: Pik Pobeda), the highest peak of Tianshan mountains on the border between Xinjiang and Kyrgyzstan
托木爾峰	Victory Peak or Jengish Chokusu (7,439 m), the highest peak of Tianshan mountains on the border between Xinjiang and Kyrgyzstan
托架	bracket
托業	TOEIC (Test of English for International Communication)
托洛茨基	Leon Trotsky (1879–1940), a leader in the Russian Revolution in 1917
托派	Trotskyite; Trotskyist (abbr. for 托洛茨基派[Tuo1 luo4 ci2 ji1 pai4])
托爾斯泰	Tolstoy (name)
托爾斯港	Tórshavn, capital of Faroe Islands
托爾金	J.R.R. Tolkien (1892-1973), British philologist and author of fantasy fiction such as Lord of the Rings 魔戒
托特	Thoth (ancient Egyptian deity)
托班	after-school program
托生	to be reincarnated; to be reborn
托皮卡	Topeka, capital of Kansas
托盤	tray; salver; pallet
托盤車	pallet jack
托福	(old) thanks to your lucky influence (polite reply to health inquiries)
托管	trusteeship; to trust
托管班	after-school program
托缽修會	mendicant religious order in Catholicism; Franciscan order
托羅斯山	Taurus mountains of south Turkey
托老所	senior center
托育	childcare; daycare
托腮	to rest one's chin in one's hand
托舉	to lift and support; to hold up (physically)
托萊多	Toledo, Spain
托葉	stipule
托足無門	to be unable to find a place to stay (idiom)
托運	to consign (goods); to check through (baggage)
托運行李	luggage that has been checked in (on flight)
托里拆利	Evangelista Torricelli (1608-1647), Italian physicist, colleague of Galileo
托里縣	Toli, a county in Tacheng Prefecture 塔城地區|塔城地区[Ta3 cheng2 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
托馬斯	Thomas (male name)
托馬斯·哈代	Thomas Hardy (1840-1928), English author
托馬斯·阿奎納	Thomas Aquinas (1225-1274), Italian Catholic priest in the Dominican Order, philosopher and theologian in the scholastic tradition
扛	to carry on one's shoulder; (fig.) to take on (a burden, duty etc)
扛把子	(argot) gang leader; (fig.) king; the best; also pr. [kang2ba4zi5]
扠	to fork
扡	drag along
扢	clean; to rub
扣	to fasten; to button; button
扣上	to buckle up; to fasten
扣人心弦	to excite; to thrill; exciting
扣住	to detain; to hold back by force; to buckle
扣分	to deduct marks (when grading school work); to have marks deducted
扣動	to pull (a trigger)
扣去	to deduct (points etc)
扣問	(literary) to inquire; to ask; question
扣壓	to withhold; to hold sth back (and prevent it being known)
扣屎盆子	to make a scapegoat of sb; to defame; to slander
扣屎盔子	(northern dialect) lit. to cap in excrement
扣帶回	cingulum (anatomy)
扣帽子	to tag sb with unfair label; power word
扣式電池	button cell; watch battery
扣應	to call in (to a broadcast program) (loanword) (Tw)
扣扣	(Internet slang) QQ instant messenger
扣押	to detain; to hold in custody; to distrain
扣擊	to smash a ball
扣查	to detain and question
扣殺	to smash a ball; to spike
扣減	to deduct
扣球	to smash a ball; to spike
扣環	circlip; C-clip; snap ring; Jesus clip; brooch
扣留	to detain sb; to hold sb against their will
扣發	to deprive; to withhold; to hold sth back (and prevent it being known)
扣籃	slam dunk
扣繳	to withhold; to garnish (wages etc)
扣肉	steamed pork
扣襻	button loop
扣除	to deduct
扣題	to stick to the topic
扤	to shake; to sway
扦	short slender pointed piece of metal, bamboo etc; skewer
扦插	(agriculture) to plant by cuttage; to propagate from cuttings
扦腳	(dialect) pedicure; to trim one's toenails
扭	to turn; to twist; to wring
扭傷	a sprain; a crick; to sprain
扭力	torque; turning force; torsion
扭打	to wrestle; to grapple; to scuffle
扭扭捏捏	affecting shyness or embarrassment; coy
扭扭樂	Twister (game)
扭捏	affecting shyness or embarrassment; coy
扭擺	to twist and sway (one's body)
扭曲	to twist; to warp; to distort
扭矩	torque; turning force
扭結	to tangle up; to twist together; to wind
扭腰	to sway one's hips; to twist one's waist
扭虧	to make good a deficit; to reverse a loss
扭虧為盈	(idiom) to get into the black; to become profitable
扭蛋	toy in a capsule (dispensed from a vending machine)
扭角羚	takin (Budorcas taxicolor); goat-antelope
扭轉	to reverse; to turn around (an undesirable situation)
扭轉乾坤	lit. to upend heaven and earth (idiom)
扭送	to seize and hand sb over to the authorities
扭頭	to turn one's head; to turn around
扮	to disguise oneself as; to dress up; to play (a role)
扮家家酒	to play house (Tw)
扮演	to play the role of; to act
扮相	stage costume
扮裝	to dress up and make up (like an actor)
扮裝皇后	drag queen; female impersonator
扮豬吃老虎	to play the wolf in sheep's clothing; to disguise oneself as sth harmless in order to lull one's target into letting their guard down
扮酷	to act cool
扯	to pull; to tear; (of cloth, thread etc) to buy
扯住	to grasp firmly
扯嗓子	to raise one's voice; to speak at the top of one's voice
扯家常	to engage in small talk; to chit chat
扯平	to make even; to balance; (fig.) to be even
扯後腿	to be a drag or hindrance on sb
扯淡	to talk nonsense
扯犢子	(dialect) to talk nonsense; to chat idly
扯皮	to wrangle; wrangling
扯直	to straighten (by pulling or stretching)
扯破	tear apart
扯裂	rip
扯談	to talk nonsense (dialect)
扯謊	to tell a lie
扯遠	to digress; to get sidetracked; to go off on a tangent
扯鈴	diabolo; Chinese yo-yo
扯雞巴蛋	to talk shit; to drivel; bullshit
扱	to collect; to receive
扳	to pull; to turn (sth) around; to turn around (a situation)
扳不倒兒	(dialect) roly-poly toy
扳價	to demand a high price
扳動	to pull out; to pull a lever
扳回	to pull back; to regain (one's dignity etc)
扳回一城	to recover some lost ground (in a competition)
扳子	spanner; wrench
扳平	to equalize; to level the score; to pull back the advantage
扳手	spanner; wrench; lever (on a machine)
扳指	ornamental thumb ring (originally a ring, often made from jade, worn by archers in ancient times to protect the right thumb when drawing a bowstring)
扳本	to recoup losses (in gambling)
扳本兒	to recoup losses (in gambling)
扳機	(gun) trigger
扳罾	to lift the fishnet
扳道	railroad switch
扳道員	pointsman; switchman
扳道岔	railroad switch
扳鉗	wrench; spanner
扳龍附鳳	hitching a ride to the sky on the dragon and phoenix (idiom); fig. currying favor with the rich and powerful in the hope of advancement
扶	to support with the hand; to help sb up
扶不起的阿斗	weak and inept person; hopeless case
扶乩	planchette writing; to do planchette writing
扶他林	voltaren, a trade name for diclofenac sodium, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug used to reduce swelling and as painkiller
扶助	to assist
扶南	Funan, ancient state in Southeast Asia (1st - 6th century)
扶危	to help those in distress
扶危濟困	to help those in distress (idiom)
扶弟魔	(coll.) (neologism c. 2017, a play on 伏地魔[Fu2 di4 mo2]) woman who devotes herself to supporting her little brother (assisting him with his studies, giving money to help him buy a house etc)
扶弱抑強	to support the weak and restrain the strong (idiom); robbing the rich to help the poor
扶手	handrail; armrest
扶手椅	armchair
扶持	to help; to assist
扶掖	to support; to help
扶揄	to raise high; to uphold
扶搖直上	to skyrocket; to get quick promotion in one's career
扶桑	Fusang, mythical island of ancient literature, often interpreted as Japan
扶梯	ladder; staircase; escalator
扶植	to foster; to support
扶欄	handrail
扶正	to set sth upright or straight
扶正壓邪	to uphold good and suppress evil (idiom)
扶清滅洋	Support the Qing, annihilate the West! (Boxer rebellion slogan)
扶溝縣	Fugou, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
扶犁	to put one's hand to the plow
扶箕	planchette writing (for taking dictation from beyond the grave)
扶綏縣	Fusui, a county in Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
扶老攜幼	taking everyone along, young and old
扶貧	assistance to the poor; poverty alleviation
扶貧濟困	to help the poor; almsgiving for the needy
扶輪社	Rotary Club
扶風縣	Fufeng, a county in Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
扶養	to foster; to bring up; to raise
扶餘	Buyeo (c. 200 BC–494 AD), ancient kingdom in what is now northeast China
扶餘市	Fuyu, a county-level city in Songyuan City 松原市[Song1 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
批	to ascertain; to act on; to criticize
批件	approved document; document with written instructions
批假	to approve vacation
批價	wholesale price; to settle an account; to pay a bill
批八字	to have one's fortune read
批准	to approve; to ratify
批准文號	(drug etc) approval number
批判	to criticize; critique
批匯	to approve use of foreign currency
批卷	to correct student papers; to grade exam papers
批命	to tell sb's fortune
批捕	to authorize an arrest
批改	to mark (homework, exam scripts etc)
批文	official written ruling in response to a submission
批流年	to cast sb's yearly horoscope
批發	wholesale; bulk trade; distribution
批發價	wholesale price
批發商	a wholesale business; distributor
批發業	wholesale business; bulk trade
批示	to write comments on a report submitted by a subordinate
批蕩	to render (a wall)
批薩	(loanword) pizza
批處理	(computing) batch processing
批號	lot number; batch number
批覆	to issue an official written reply (in response to a subordinate's report or request)
批註	to annotate; to add marginal comments on; criticism
批評	to criticize; criticism
批評家	critic
批評者	critic; detractor
批語	criticism; commentary
批踢踢	PTT, the largest terminal-based bulletin board system in Taiwan
批踢踢實業坊	PTT Bulletin Board System (Tw)
批轉	to approve and forward; to endorse; stamp "approved for distribution"
批辦	to approve and carry out; to issue approval
批郤導窾	to get right to the heart of the matter (idiom)
批量	batch; lot
批量生產	to mass produce
批量購買	to buy in bulk; bulk buying
批閱	to read through to evaluate; to referee
批頭	screwdriving bits
批頰	to slap sb's cheeks
批駁	to criticize; to refute
批鬥	to drag sb before a public meeting to denounce, humiliate and physically abuse them (esp. during the Cultural Revolution)
批鬥大會	struggle session
批點	to add critical marks or notes to a text; (fig.) to criticize
扻	to strike; to run against; to throw, as a stone
扼	to grip forcefully; to clutch at; to guard
扼制	to control; to restrain
扼喉撫背	lit. to strangle the front and press the back (idiom)
扼守	to hold a pass; to guard (a strategic location)
扼死	to strangle; to throttle; to stifle (opinions)
扼殺	to strangle; to throttle
扼腕	to wring one's hands (literally wring one's wrists)
扼襟控咽	to secure a stranglehold (idiom); fig. to hold a strategic pass
扼要	to the point; concise
扼頸	to strangle; to throttle
扽	to yank; to pull tight
找	to try to find; to look for; to call on sb
找上門	to come to sb's door; to call on sb
找不到	can't find
找不自在	to ask for trouble; to bring misfortune on oneself
找不著	to be unable to find
找不著北	to be confused and disoriented
找事	to look for employment; to pick a quarrel
找借口	to look for a pretext
找出	to find; to search out
找到	to find
找刺兒	to find fault
找台階兒	to find an excuse; to look for a pretext
找回	to retrieve
找尋	to look for; to seek; to find fault
找對象	to seek a marriage partner; looking for a mate
找岔子	to look for blemishes; to find fault; nitpicking
找平	to level (ground); to make level
找抽	(coll.) to look for trouble
找機會	to look for an opportunity
找死	to court death; to take a big risk
找碴兒	to pick a quarrel; to find fault; nitpicking
找茬	to pick fault with; to spot the differences; to nitpick
找著	to find
找補	to compensate; to make up; to complement
找見	to find (sth one has been looking for)
找贖	(dialect) to give change
找轍	to look for a pretext
找遍	to search everywhere; to search high and low; to comb
找錢	to give change; to seek funding
找門路	to seek help from social connections
找零	to give change (after a cash transaction)
找頭	change (from money paid)
找飯碗	to look for a job
找麻煩	to look for trouble
找齊	to make uniform; to even up; to make good a deficiency
承	to bear; to carry; to hold
承上起下	to follow the past and herald the future (idiom); part of a historical transition
承乏	to accept a position on a provisional basis, in the absence of better qualified candidates (humble expr.)
承付	to promise to pay
承做	to undertake; to take on (i.e. to accept a task)
承兌	(commerce) to accept (i.e. acknowledge as calling for payment)
承前啟後	to follow the past and herald the future (idiom); part of a historical transition
承包	to contract; to undertake (a job)
承包人	contractor
承包商	contractor
承受	to bear; to support; to inherit
承受力	tolerance; capability of adapting oneself
承塵	(literary) ceiling
承審法官	trial judge
承平	(successive periods of) peace and prosperity; peaceful
承建	to construct under contract
承德市	Chengde, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
承德縣	Chengde, a county in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
承想	(often used in the negative) to anticipate; to expect; to think that sth would happen
承應	to agree; to promise
承托	to support; to bear (a weight); to prop up
承接	to receive; to accept; to carry on
承擔	to undertake; to assume (responsibility etc)
承攬	to contract for an entire project
承望	(literary) to hope for; to count on
承歡	to cater to sb to make them happy (esp. of one's parents)
承當	to bear (responsibility); to take on; to assume
承租	to rent; to lease
承租人	leaser; tenant
承租方	borrower; leaser; the hiring side of a contract
承籍	to inherit a rank (from a predecessor)
承繼	adoption (e.g. of a nephew as a son); to inherit
承蒙	to be indebted (to sb)
承蒙關照	to be indebted to sb for care; thank you for looking after me
承襲	to inherit; to follow; to adopt
承認	to admit; to concede; to recognize
承認控罪	guilty plea (law)
承諾	to promise; to undertake to do something; commitment
承讓	you let me win (said politely after winning a game)
承讓人	grantee (law)
承載	to bear the weight; to sustain
承載力	carrying capacity
承載量	carrying capacity
承轉	to transmit a document (up or down a chain of bureaucracy)
承辦	to undertake; to accept a contract
承運	to provide transport; to accept the Mandate of Heaven
承運人	carrier (of goods etc)
承重	(usu. of a structural component of a building) to bear a load
承重孫	eldest grandson (to sustain upper storeys of ancestor worship)
承重牆	load-bearing wall
承銷	to underwrite (i.e. guarantee financing); underwriting
承銷人	sales agent; salesman; consignee
承銷價差	underwriting spread
承銷利差	underwriting spread
承銷品	goods on consignment
承銷商	underwriting company; dealership; sales agency
承銷團	underwriting group
承銷店	dealership
承銷貨物	goods on consignment
承順	to comply with; to submit to
承頭	to take responsibility
技	skill
技佐	(Tw) assistant technical specialist (a technical-staff rank in Taiwan's civil service)
技嘉	GIGABYTE Technology Co., Ltd.
技士	(Tw) associate technical specialist (a technical-staff rank in Taiwan's civil service)
技工	skilled worker
技工學校	vocational high school
技巧	skill; technique
技師	senior technician; technical expert
技戰術	skillful execution and strategic planning; technical and tactical skills (abbr. for 技術|技术[ji4 shu4] + 戰術|战术[zhan4 shu4])
技校	vocational high school (abbr. for 技工學校|技工学校[ji4 gong1 xue2 xiao4] or 技術學校|技术学校[ji4 shu4 xue2 xiao4])
技正	(Tw) senior technical specialist (a technical-staff rank in Taiwan's civil service)
技法	technique; method
技癢	to itch to demonstrate one's skill
技職	technical and vocational (education)
技能	technical ability; skill
技藝	skill; art
技術	technology; technique; skill
技術人員	technical staff
技術員	technician
技術學校	vocational high school
技術官僚	technocrat
技術性	technical; technological
技術指導	technical instructor; coach
技術援助	technical assistance
技術故障	technical breakdown; malfunction
技術方案	technology program; technical solution
技術棧	technology stack
技術標準	technology standard
技術潛水	technical diving
技術知識	technical knowledge
技術規範	technical specification
抃	to applaud
抃悅	to clap one's hands in joy
抃掌	to clap; to applaud
抃舞	(literary) to clap and dance in joy
抄	to make a copy; to plagiarize; to search and seize
抄件	duplicate (copy)
抄家	to search a house and confiscate possessions
抄寫	to copy; to transcribe
抄小路	to take the back roads; to take the side streets; to take the small paths
抄底	(finance) to snap up undervalued stocks
抄後路	to outflank and attack from the rear
抄手	to fold one's arms; copyist; (dialect) wonton
抄本	handwritten copy
抄查	to search and confiscate
抄獲	to search and seize
抄經士	copyist; scribe
抄網	dip net
抄襲	to plagiarize; to copy; to attack the flank or rear of an enemy
抄身	to search (a person); to frisk
抄近	to take a shortcut
抄近路	to take a shortcut
抄送	to make a copy (and send it to someone); Cc (for email)
抄道	to take a shortcut
抄錄	to make a copy of
抄靶子	(dialect) to do a body search; to frisk
抆	to wipe
抈	to bend
抉	to pick out; to single out
抉擇	to choose (literary)
把	to hold; to grasp
把兄弟	sworn brothers
把兒	a handle
把妹	to pick up a girl; to get a girl
把子	handle
把守	to guard
把尿	to support a child (or invalid etc) while he or she urinates
把屎	to support a child (or invalid etc) while he or she defecates
把弄	to play with; to fiddle with
把式	person skilled in a trade; skill
把心放在肚子裡	(coll.) to be completely at ease
把戲	acrobatics; jugglery; trick; ploy
把手	handle; grip; knob
把拔	(Tw) (slang) daddy (pun on 爸爸[ba4 ba5])
把持	to control; to dominate; to monopolize
把持不定	indecisive (idiom)
把控	to control; to be in charge of
把握	to grasp (also fig.); to seize; to hold
把方便當隨便	to act unappreciatively in response to a kindness
把柄	handle; (fig.) information that can be used against sb
把玩	to turn around in one's hands; to play with; to fiddle with
把穩	trustworthy; dependable
把立	stem (bicycle component)
把細	(dialect) see 仔細|仔细[zi3 xi4]
把總	low-level officer of the army from the Ming to the mid Qing Dynasty
把脈	to feel the pulse; to take sb's pulse
把舵	to hold the rudder; to hold (to take, to be at) the helm; to steer
把袂	to have an intimate friendship
把酒	to raise one's wine cup
把酒言歡	to drink together and chat merrily
把門	to stand as a goalkeeper; to keep guard on a gate
把關	to guard a pass; to check on sth
把頭	labor contractor; gangmaster
把風	to keep watch (during a clandestine activity); to be on the lookout
把馬子	to pick up a girl; to get a girl
抌	(archaic) to strike forcefully; to stab; Taiwan pr. [zhen3]
抏	to consume; to exhaust; to play
抑	to restrain; to restrict; to keep down
抑且	(literary) moreover; in addition
抑制	to inhibit; to keep down; to suppress
抑制作用	inhibition
抑制劑	suppressant; inhibitor
抑塞	to repress; gloomy
抑或	or; could it be that...?
抑揚	modulation (rising and falling pitch); intonation; a cadence
抑揚格	iambic
抑止	to supress; to restrain
抑素	chalone (protein inhibiting cell proliferation)
抑鬱	depressed; despondent; gloomy
抑鬱不平	in a state of depression (idiom)
抑鬱症	clinical depression
抒	to express; to give expression to; to relieve
抒寫	to express (emotions in prose); a written description (of emotions)
抒情	to express emotion; lyric
抒情詩	lyric poetry
抒懷	to express emotion
抒發	to express (an emotion); to give vent
抓	to grab; to catch; to arrest
抓住	to grab hold of; to capture
抓傷	to injure by scratching or clawing
抓力	grip
抓功夫	to maximize one's time; to catch some time out; to find enough time
抓包	to catch sb in the act; (computing) to capture data packets
抓去	to arrest and take away
抓取	to seize
抓周	custom of placing a variety of articles (writing brush, abacus etc) before an infant on its first birthday to see which one he or she picks up (The article chosen is supposed to be an indication of the child's inclinations, future career etc.)
抓哏	(of a comedian) to seize on something sb has just said or done to make an ad lib joke
抓地	grip on the road; roadholding
抓地力	traction
抓大放小	(PRC, mid-1990s) to restructure the large state-owned enterprises (SOEs) controlled by the central government and privatize smaller SOEs at the local level
抓姦	to catch a couple in the act (adultery, illicit sexual relations)
抓娃娃機	claw machine
抓嫖	(of the police) to hunt prostitutes and their clients
抓子兒	kids' game involving throwing and grabbing
抓小辮子	to catch sb out
抓工夫	to maximize one's time; to catch some time out; to find enough time
抓手	handhold; handle; mechanical hand; gripper
抓拍	to capture (an image); to snap (a photo)
抓捕	to seize; to capture
抓搔	to scratch an itch
抓撓	to scratch; to mess about with; to quarrel
抓狂	(coll.) to be driven crazy (with frustration, stress, anger etc); to tear one's hair out; to freak out (from Taiwanese 掠狂, Tai-lo pr. [lia̍h-kông])
抓猴	(Tw) to catch an adulterous man in the act (from Taiwanese 掠猴, Tai-lo pr. [lia̍h-kâu])
抓獲	to arrest
抓癢	to scratch an itch
抓瞎	to be caught unprepared
抓緊	to keep a firm grip on; to pay close attention to
抓緊學習	to concentrate on studying hard
抓緊時間	to waste no time in (doing sth); to hurry up
抓耳	(of a song or tune) catchy
抓耳撓腮	to tweak one's ears and scratch one's cheeks (as an expression of anxiety, delight, frustration etc) (idiom)
抓舉	snatch (weightlifting technique)
抓藥	to make up a prescription (of herbal medicine)
抓賊	to catch a thief
抓走	to arrest
抓辮子	to grab sb by the pigtail; to seize on weak points
抓飯	pilaf (rice dish popular in many parts of the world, including Xinjiang)
抓餅	fluffy, flaky pancake (made with dough, not batter)
抓馬	(coll.) (loanword) drama; dramatic; exaggerated
抓鬮	to draw straws
抔	take up in both hands
投	to throw (sth in a specific direction: ball, javelin, grenade etc)
投中	to hit the target with one's throw; (basketball) to score
投保	to take out insurance; to insure
投保人	policy holder; insured person
投保方	policyholder (insurance)
投光燈	floodlight
投入	to throw into; to put into; to throw oneself into
投其所好	to adapt to sb's taste; to fit sb's fancy
投合	to go well together; to be compatible; to cater to
投壺	ancient banquet game of throwing arrows into a pot, the winner determined by the number of arrows thrown in, and the loser required to drink as punishment
投契	to get along well (with sb); congenial
投奔	to seek shelter; to seek asylum
投宿	to lodge; to stay (for the night)
投寄	to send by post
投射	to throw (a projectile); to cast (light)
投屏	(computing) to mirror one's screen (to another device); screen sharing
投師	to join a guru for instruction
投幣	coin-operated; to insert coins
投幣口	coin slot
投店	to stop at a hostel
投彈	to throw an explosive charge; to bomb
投影	to project; a projection
投影中心	center of projection
投影儀	projector
投影圖	perspective drawing
投影幾何	(Tw) projective geometry
投影機	projector
投影片	slide used in a presentation (Tw)
投影線	line of project; projection line
投影面	plane of projection (in perspective drawing)
投懷送抱	to throw oneself in sb's arms; to throw oneself at sb
投手	thrower; pitcher; bowler
投拍	to start shooting (a film); to invest in (a movie)
投擲	to throw sth a long distance; to hurl; to throw at
投放	to input; to throw in; to unload
投放市場	to put sth on the market
投敵	to go over to the enemy; to defect
投映	(of a light source) to cast one's light on; to project (an image)
投書	to submit a written piece (letter, article, opinion piece etc)
投桃報李	toss a peach, get back a plum (idiom); to return a favor
投案	to surrender to the authorities; to turn oneself in (for a crime)
投標	to bid; to make a tender
投機	congenial; agreeable; to speculate; to profiteer
投機倒把	to engage in speculation and profiteering
投機取巧	to gain advantage by any means, fair or foul; to be opportunistic; to be full of tricks
投機者	speculator
投機買賣	to engage in speculative trading
投殺	(sports) (cricket) to bowl a batsman out
投毒	to poison
投河	to jump into a river to drown oneself
投注	to throw one's energies (into an activity)
投生	reborn (of departed spirit); to be reincarnated
投產	to put into production; to put into operation
投石問路	lit. to toss a stone to find out what's ahead (idiom)
投硬幣	coin-operated; to insert a coin
投票	to vote; to cast a vote
投票匭	ballot box (Tw)
投票地點	voting place
投票機器	voting machine
投票權	suffrage; right to vote
投票率	proportion of vote; turnout in election
投票站	polling station (for a vote)
投票箱	ballot box
投票者	voter
投票間	voting booth
投稿	to submit articles for publication; to contribute (writing)
投筆從戎	to lay down the pen and take up the sword (idiom)
投籃	(basketball) to shoot for the basket
投籃機	arcade basketball machine; miniature hoops
投緣	to be kindred spirits; to hit it off
投繯	to hang oneself; to commit suicide by hanging
投繯自縊	to hang oneself (idiom)
投考	to sign up for an examination
投胎	to be reincarnated
投行	investment bank (abbr. for 投資銀行|投资银行[tou2 zi1 yin2 hang2])
投袂而起	lit. to shake one's sleeves and rise (idiom)
投訴	to lodge a complaint
投誠	to defect; to surrender; to capitulate
投資	investment; to invest
投資人	investor
投資回報率	return on investment (ROI)
投資報酬率	return on investment; rate of return
投資家	investor
投資移民	investment immigration; immigrant investor
投資組合	investment portfolio
投資者	investor
投資銀行	investment bank
投身	to throw oneself into sth
投軍	to join up; to enlist (e.g. in the military)
投遞	to deliver
投遞員	courier; mailman
投錯胎	to be reincarnated in the wrong womb
投開票所	polling station
投降	to surrender
投靠	to rely on help from sb
投鞭斷流	arms enough to stem the stream (idiom); formidable army
投餵	to feed (an animal)
投鼠忌器	lit. to refrain from shooting at the rat for fear of breaking the vases (idiom)
抖	to tremble; to shake out; to reveal
抖M	(slang) masochist (from Japanese ドM, "doemu")
抖動	to quiver; to vibrate; to shake (sth)
抖摟	to shake out; to bring to light; to squander
抖擻	to rouse; to invigorate; to enliven
抖擻精神	to gather one's spirits; to pull oneself together
抖瑟	to quiver; to shiver; to tremble
抖縮	to cower; to tremble
抖落	to shake out
抖音	Douyin, Chinese app for creating and sharing short videos, released in its international version as TikTok
抗	to resist; to fight; to defy
抗傾覆	anticapsizing
抗凝血劑	anticoagulant
抗利尿激素	vasopressin (biochemistry)
抗原	(immunology) antigen
抗原決定簇	(immunology) antigenic determinant; epitope
抗命	against orders; to disobey; to refuse to accept orders
抗壓	to resist pressure or stress; pressure-resistant
抗壞血酸	vitamin C; ascorbic acid
抗性	resistance; capability of resisting
抗憂鬱藥	antidepressant
抗戰	war of resistance, especially the war against Japan (1937-1945)
抗抑鬱藥	antidepressant
抗抗生素	antibiotic resistance
抗拒	to resist; to defy; to oppose
抗捐	to refuse to pay taxes; to boycott a levy
抗擊	to resist (an aggressor); to oppose (a menace)
抗敵	to resist the enemy
抗日	to resist Japan (esp. during WW2)
抗日戰爭	(China's) War of Resistance against Japan (1937-1945)
抗日救亡運動	the Save the Nation Anti-Japanese Protest Movement stemming from the Manchurian railway incident of 18th July 1931 九一八事變|九一八事变
抗旱	drought-resistant; to weather a drought
抗核加固	nuclear hardening
抗母	(loanword) com (as in "dot-com")
抗毒素	antitoxins
抗氧化劑	antioxidant
抗水	waterproof; water resistant
抗洪	to fight a flood
抗澇	defenses against floods
抗災	defense against natural disasters
抗炎性	anti-inflammatory (medicine)
抗爭	to resist; to make a stand and fight (against)
抗生素	antibiotic
抗疫	to combat an epidemic
抗病	disease resistant
抗病毒	antiviral
抗病毒藥	antivirals
抗癌	anti-cancer
抗直	unyielding
抗禮	to behave informally as equals; not to stand on ceremony
抗稅	to refuse to pay taxes; to boycott taxes
抗精神病	antipsychotic (drug)
抗組織胺	antihistamine
抗組胺劑	antihistamine
抗組胺藥	antihistamine
抗美援朝	Resist US, help North Korea (1950s slogan)
抗耐甲氧西林金葡菌	methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
抗菌	antibacterial
抗菌素	antibiotic
抗菌藥	antibacterial
抗藥	drug-resistance (of a pathogen)
抗藥性	drug resistance (medicine)
抗藥能力	drug-resistance (of a pathogen)
抗血清	antiserum
抗衡	to compete with; to vie with; to counter
抗訴	to protest against a verdict; to lodge an appeal
抗議	to protest; protest
抗議者	protester
抗辯	to counter accusations; to protest; to remonstrate
抗鋸齒	anti-aliasing
抗震	anti-seismic measures; seismic defenses; earthquake resistant
抗震救災指揮部	State Council Earthquake Relief Headquarters
抗震結構	earthquake-resistant construction
抗體	(immunology) antibody
折	to turn sth over; to turn upside down; to tip sth out (of a container)
折中	to compromise; to take the middle road; a trade-off
折光	refraction
折兌	to cash; to change gold or silver into money
折刀	folding knife; jackknife; pocketknife; Tibetan waist knife
折刀兒	erhua form of 折刀[zhe2 dao1]
折半	to reduce by fifty percent; half-price
折反射望遠鏡	catadioptric telescope
折合	to convert into; to amount to; to be equivalent to
折回	to turn back; to retrace one's steps
折壽	to have one's life shortened (by excesses etc)
折子戲	opera highlights performed as independent pieces
折射	to refract; refraction
折射望遠鏡	refracting telescope
折射率	refractive index
折戟沉沙	lit. broken halberds embedded in the sand (idiom)
折扇	folding fan
折扣	discount
折抵	to offset
折挫	to frustrate; to inhibit; to make things difficult
折損	to suffer losses; to lose (some of one's reputation, one's fleet, one's staff etc)
折斷	to snap sth off; to break
折服	to convince; to subdue; to be convinced
折本	a loss; to lose money
折枝	massage; snapped-off branch; sprig
折桂	to win the laurels; to pass an imperial examination
折殺	to not deserve (one's good fortune etc)
折現	to discount
折現率	discount rate
折疊	to fold; collapsible; folding (bicycle, antenna, bed etc)
折疊刀	folding knife
折疊屏	foldable screen (for a smartphone etc)
折疊式	folding (i.e. portable)
折疊椅	folding chair; deck chair
折痕	crease; fold
折皺	fold; crease; wrinkle
折磨	to torment; to torture
折秤	discrepancy in weight
折筆	against the bristles (brush movement in painting)
折算	to convert (between currencies)
折節讀書	to start reading furiously, contrary to previous habit (idiom)
折籮	mixed dish of the food left over from a banquet
折線	broken line (continuous figure made up of straight line segments)
折線圖	line chart
折縫	welt seam (doubled over and sewed again from topside)
折罪	to atone for a crime
折耗	loss of goods; damage to goods; shrinkage
折耳根	chameleon plant; fish mint (Houttuynia cordata), esp. its edible rhizome
折腰	to bend at the waist; to bow; (fig.) to bow to; to submit
折舊	depreciation
折舊率	rate of deprecation
折衝樽俎	lit. to stop the enemy at the banquet table
折衷主義	eclecticism
折衷鸚鵡	Eclectus roratus (red-green parrot of Papua-New Guinea)
折角	to fold the corner of a page; to dog-ear
折變	to sell off sth
折跟頭	to do a somersault; to turn head over heels
折轉	reflex (angle); to turn back
折辱	(literary) to humiliate; to demean
折返	to turn back
折返跑	shuttle run
折過兒	to turn over
折錢	a loss; to lose money
折頭	discount
折騰	to toss from side to side (e.g. sleeplessly)
抦	handle; shaft
抨	attack; impeach
抨擊	to attack (verbally or in writing)
披	to drape over one's shoulders; to open; to unroll
披垂	(of clothes, hair etc) to hang down and cover; to flow down
披巾	shawl
披掛	to put on a suit of armor; to put on dress; to wear
披星戴月	to travel or work through night and day; to toil away for long hours
披沙揀金	(lit.) to sort the gold from the sand (idiom)
披甲	to don armor
披紅	to drape sb in red silk as a sign of honor
披索	(Tw) (loanword) peso (monetary unit)
披肝瀝膽	(idiom) to be completely honest and sincere; to show wholehearted loyalty
披肩	cape; shawl; (of long hair) to trail over one's shoulders
披荊斬棘	lit. to cut one's way through thistles and thorns (idiom)
披薩	(loanword) pizza
披覽	to pore over a book; to look and admire
披閱	to peruse; to browse
披露	to reveal; to publish; to make public
披靡	to be swept by the wind; to be blown about by the wind
披頭四樂團	the Beatles
披頭士	the Beatles (music band)
披頭散髮	with dishevelled hair (idiom); with one's hair down
披風	cloak; cape
披麻戴孝	to wear mourning clothes; to be in mourning; also written 披麻帶孝|披麻带孝
抬	to lift; to raise; (of two or more persons) to carry
抬愛	to hold in high regard
抬槓	to bicker; to argue for the sake of arguing
抬秤	large steelyard usu. operated by three people – two to lift it using a pole, and one to adjust the counterweight
抬舉	to lift sth up; to elevate sb
抬起	to lift up
抬轎子	to carry sb in a sedan chair; flatter; sing praises
抬頭	to raise one's head; to look up
抬頭不見低頭見	(idiom) (of people in a small town etc) to cross paths regularly
抬顯	head-up display (HUD) (abbr. for 抬頭顯示|抬头显示[tai2 tou2 xian3 shi4])
抬高	to raise (price etc)
抱	to hold; to carry (in one's arms); to hug
抱不平	to be outraged by an injustice (done to sb else)
抱佛腳	(fig.) to scramble to make up for a lack of preparation; to make a frantic, last-ditch effort; to cram for an exam (cf. 平時不燒香，臨時抱佛腳|平时不烧香，临时抱佛脚[ping2 shi2 bu4 shao1 xiang1 , lin2 shi2 bao4 fo2 jiao3])
抱團	to band together; to team up
抱大腿	(coll.) to cling to sb influential or famous
抱定	to hold on firmly; to cling (to a belief); stubbornly
抱屈	feel wronged
抱怨	to complain; to grumble; to harbor a complaint
抱恨	to have a gnawing regret
抱恨終天	(idiom) to harbor regrets for a lifetime
抱恨黃泉	(idiom) to harbor regrets into the afterlife
抱愧	feel ashamed
抱成一團	to band together; to gang up; to stick together
抱抱	to hug; to give a cuddle
抱抱團	Free Hugs Campaign
抱抱裝	"hug shirt" worn by members of the Free Hugs Campaign (see 抱抱團|抱抱团[bao4 bao4 tuan2])
抱拳	to cup one's fist in the other hand (as a sign of respect)
抱持	to hold (expectations, hopes etc); to maintain (an attitude etc)
抱摔	body slam (wrestling move)
抱有	to have (aspirations, suspicions etc)
抱朴子	Baopuzi, collection of essays by Ge Hong 葛洪[Ge3 Hong2] on alchemy, immortality, legalism, society etc
抱枕	bolster; a long pillow or cushion
抱歉	to be sorry; to feel apologetic; sorry!
抱死	(of a wheel during braking) to lock up
抱殘守缺	to cherish the outmoded and preserve the outworn (idiom); conservative
抱犢崮	Mt Baodugu in Lanling County 蘭陵縣|兰陵县[Lan2 ling2 Xian4] in Linyi 臨沂|临沂[Lin2 yi2], south Shandong
抱病	to be ill; to be in poor health
抱睡	to hold a baby or child while they sleep; to spoon with one's partner
抱石	(sports) bouldering
抱窩	(coll.) to incubate; to brood
抱粗腿	to latch on to the rich and powerful
抱臂	to cross one's arms
抱薪救火	lit. to carry firewood to put out a fire (idiom); fig. to make a problem worse by inappropriate action
抱負	aspiration; ambition
抱頭	to put one's hands behind one's head, fingers interlaced
抱頭痛哭	to weep disconsolately; to cry on each other's shoulder
抱頭鼠竄	to cover one's head and sneak away like a rat (idiom); to flee ignominiously
抱養	to adopt (a child)
抴	to pull; to drag; to join together
抵	to press against; to support; to prop up; to resist; to withstand
抵住	to resist; to press against; to brace
抵債	to repay a debt in kind or by labor
抵償	to compensate; to make good (a financial loss)
抵充	to use in payment; to compensate
抵制	to resist; to boycott; to refuse (to cooperate)
抵岸	to come ashore
抵扣	to deduct (money due)
抵抗	to resist; resistance
抵抗力	resistance; immunity
抵押	to provide (an asset) as security for a loan; to put up collateral
抵押品	security (property held against a loan); mortgaged property
抵押物	collateral (finance)
抵押貸款	mortgage loan
抵拒	to resist; to stand up to
抵擋	to resist; to hold back; to stop
抵消	to counteract; to cancel out; to offset
抵減	to claim a credit against; tax reduction
抵牾	to conflict with; to contradict; contradiction
抵用	to exchange for (sth of equal value or utility); to use in lieu; to redeem (a coupon etc); to use to offset (an amount owed etc)
抵用券	coupon; voucher
抵用金	store credit (credit to be spent at a specified retailer)
抵禦	to resist; to withstand
抵罪	to be punished for a crime
抵華	to arrive in China
抵補	to compensate for; to make good
抵觸	to conflict; to contradict
抵賬	to repay a debt in kind or by labor
抵賴	to refuse to admit (what one has done); to disavow; to renege
抵足而眠	lit. to live and sleep together (idiom); fig. a close friendship
抵達	to arrive; to reach (a destination)
抶	beat; flog
抹	to plaster; to go around; to skirt
抹一鼻子灰	lit. to rub one's nose with dust; to suffer a snub
抹不下臉	to be unable to keep a straight face (idiom)
抹刀	scraper; trowel; putty knife
抹去	to erase
抹布	cleaning rag; also pr. [mo3 bu4]
抹平	to flatten; to level; to smooth out
抹殺	to erase; to cover traces; to obliterate evidence
抹油	to anoint
抹消	to erase; to wipe
抹淚	to wipe away tears; (fig.) to shed tears
抹灰	to plaster; to render (a wall); (fig.) to bring shame on
抹片	smear (used for medical test) (Tw)
抹胸	old feminine garment, covering chest and abdomen
抹脖子	to slit one's own throat; to commit suicide
抹茶	green tea powder (Japanese: matcha)
抹醬	spread (food)
抹零	(of a seller) to round down the fractional part of a bill
抹香鯨	sperm whale; cachalot (Physeter macrocephalus)
抹黑	to discredit; to defame; to smear sb's name
抻	to pull; to stretch; to draw sth out
抻麵	to make noodles by pulling out dough; hand-pulled noodles
押	to mortgage; to pawn; to detain in custody
押寶	to play yabao (a gambling game); (fig.) to gamble on
押平聲韻	to restrict to even tone (i.e. final rhyming syllable must be classical first or second tone 平聲|平声)
押後	to adjourn; to defer
押沙龍	Absalom, third son of David, king of Israel (Old Testament)
押注	to bet; to wager
押租	rent deposit
押解	to send away under escort (criminals, goods etc)
押車	to escort (goods) during transportation
押送	to convey (a prisoner or valuable items etc) under escort
押運	to escort (goods or funds); to convey under guard
押運員	supercargo (in maritime law); agent responsible for goods; an escort
押金	deposit; down payment
押韻	to rhyme; sometimes written 壓韻|压韵
押題	(in one's study) to focus on the topics one speculates will appear on the exam
抽	to draw out; to pull out from in between; to remove part of the whole
抽中	to win (a prize in a lottery)
抽佣	to take a commission; to take a percentage cut
抽冷子	(coll.) unexpectedly
抽出	to take out; to extract
抽動	to twitch; to throb; a spasm
抽動症	Tourette syndrome
抽取	to extract; to remove
抽咽	to sob
抽嘴巴	to slap
抽噎	to sob
抽射	(soccer) to strike the ball powerfully at goal; to unleash a fierce shot
抽屜	drawer
抽成	to take a commission; to take a percentage cut
抽打	to whip; to flog; to thrash
抽抽噎噎	(idiom) to sob and sniffle
抽插	to slide in and out; thrusting
抽搐	to twitch
抽搭	to sob
抽斗	drawer
抽時間	to (try to) find the time to
抽查	random inspection; to do a spot check
抽樣	sample; sampling
抽檢	sampling; spot check; random test
抽氣	to draw air out
抽水	to pump water; (coll.) to shrink in the wash
抽水機	water pump
抽水泵	water pump
抽水站	water pumping station
抽水馬桶	flush toilet
抽油煙機	range hood; kitchen exhaust hood
抽泣	to sob spasmodically
抽獎	to draw a prize; a lottery; a raffle
抽痛	to throb with pain; throbbing pain; twang
抽稅	to tax; to levy a tax
抽穗	(of cereal crops) to put forth ears; to come into ear
抽空	to find the time to do sth
抽筋	cramp; charley horse; to pull a tendon
抽籤	to perform divination with sticks; to draw lots
抽紙	paper tissue (in a box)
抽絲	to spin silk
抽絲剝繭	(lit.) to unwind the silk thread from the cocoon (idiom)
抽脂	liposuction
抽芽	(of a plant) to sprout; to bud
抽菸	to smoke (tobacco)
抽號	to randomly select (as for a lottery); to take a number (for queuing)
抽血	to take blood; to draw blood (e.g. for a test)
抽認卡	flashcard
抽調	to transfer (personnel or material)
抽象	abstract; abstraction
抽象代數	abstract algebra
抽象域	abstract field (math.)
抽象思維	abstract thought; logical thinking
抽象詞	abstract word
抽貸	to call in a loan
抽身	to get away from; to withdraw; to free oneself
抽離	to remove; to step back from involvement; to disengage
抽頭	to take a percentage of the winnings (in gambling)
抽風	to ventilate; to induce a draft; spasm
抽風機	exhaust fan
抽驗	to test a random sample; to spot-check
抿	to smooth hair with a wet brush
抿子	small hairbrush
拂	to flick; to brush off; (of a breeze) to brush lightly over
拂動	(of a breeze) to make (hair, leaves, clothing etc) sway gently; to ruffle
拂塵	horsetail whisk; duster
拂拭	to wipe
拂掃	whisk
拂曉	daybreak; approach of dawn
拂袖而去	to storm off in a huff (idiom)
拂逆	to go against; to do sth contrary to (sb's wishes)
拃	span (unit of length based on the width of the expanded human hand)
拄	to lean on; to prop on
拄拐	to be on crutches; to use a cane
拆	to tear open; to tear down; to tear apart
拆下	to dismantle; to take apart
拆借	to make (or take out) a short-term loan
拆分	to break up into parts
拆卸	to dismantle; to take apart
拆字	fortune telling by unpicking Chinese characters
拆家	(slang) low-level drug dealer
拆封	to open (sth that has been sealed)
拆息	daily interest on a loan
拆放款	funds on call; invested sum that can be cashed
拆散	to break up (a marriage, family etc)
拆東牆補西牆	(lit.) to tear down the east wall to repair the west wall (saying)
拆東補西	lit. pull down the east wall to repair the west (idiom); fig. temporary expedient
拆機	to dismantle a machine; to terminate a telephone service
拆毀	to demolish; to tear down
拆洗	to unpick and wash (e.g. padded garment)
拆用	to tear down and reuse; to cannibalize
拆穿	to expose; to unmask; to see through (a lie etc)
拆線	to remove stitches (from a wound)
拆臺	(theater) to dismantle the stage
拆解	to disassemble
拆賬	to work in an enterprise for a share of the profits
拆遷	to demolish a building and relocate the inhabitants
拆開	to dismantle; to disassemble; to open up (sth sealed)
拆除	to tear down; to demolish; to dismantle
拆魚羹	hand-shredded fish soup, a speciality of Shunde 順德|顺德[Shun4 de2]
拇	thumb; big toe
拇囊炎	bunion; hallux valgus
拇外翻	bunion; hallux valgus
拇戰	finger-guessing game
拇指	thumb; big toe
拇指甲	thumbnail
拇趾	big toe
拇趾外翻	bunion; hallux valgus
拈	to nip; to grasp with the fingers; to fiddle with
拈指	a snap of the fingers; a short moment; in a flash
拈花惹草	lit. to pick the flowers and trample the grass (idiom)
拈酸	(old) to be jealous
拈香	burn incense
拉	to make a cut in (sth); to slit; to gash; to slash
拉K	(slang) to take ketamine
拉㞎㞎	to poo-poo (kiddie talk)
拉丁	Latin; (in former times) to press-gang
拉丁化	romanization
拉丁字母	Latin alphabet
拉丁文	Latin (language)
拉丁文字	the alphabet; latin letters
拉丁方塊	Latin square (math. puzzle)
拉丁美洲	Latin America
拉丁舞	Latin dance
拉丁語	Latin (language)
拉下臉	to look displeased; to not be afraid of hurting sb's feelings
拉不出屎來怨茅房	lit. to blame the toilet because one is having difficulty completing a bowel movement (idiom)
拉交情	to try to form friendly ties with sb for one's own benefit
拉什卡爾加	Lashkar Gah, capital of Helmand province in south Afghanistan
拉什莫爾山	Mt Rushmore National Memorial, South Dakota
拉仇恨	(gaming) to draw attention or attacks from the enemy towards oneself
拉伸	to draw; to stretch
拉伸強度	tensile strength
拉倒	(coll.) forget it; drop it; let it go; to pull down
拉傷	to pull; to injure by straining
拉克替醇	lactitol, a sugar alcohol
拉入	to pull into; to draw in
拉力	pulling force; (fig.) allure; (materials testing) tensile strength
拉力器	chest expander (exercise equipment)
拉力賽	rally (car race) (loanword)
拉動	to pull; (fig.) to stimulate (economic activity)
拉勾兒	erhua form of 拉勾[la1 gou1]
拉包爾	Rabaul, port city and capital of New Britain, island of northeast Papua New Guinea
拉匝祿	Lazarus (Catholic transliteration)
拉卜楞寺	Labrang Monastery, Tibetan: bLa-brang bkra-shis-'khyil, in Xiahe county 夏河縣|夏河县[Xia4 he2 Xian4], Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Gansu, formerly Amdo province of Tibet
拉取	(computing) client pull
拉各斯	Lagos, city in Nigeria
拉合爾	Lahore (city in Pakistan)
拉呱	(dialect) to chat; to gossip
拉坯	to make ceramics (on a potter's wheel)
拉場子	(of a performer) to put on a show at an outdoor venue (temple fair, marketplace etc)
拉大便	to poop; to defecate
拉大旗作虎皮	lit. to wave a banner as if it were a tiger skin (idiom)
拉大條	to defecate (slang)
拉夫	to force into service; press-gang
拉夫堡	Loughborough, English city
拉夫堡大學	Loughborough University
拉夫桑賈尼	Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani
拉夫羅夫	Lavrov (name)
拉奎拉	L'Aquila, Italy
拉姆安拉	Ramallah
拉孜縣	Lhatse, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
拉客	to solicit (guests, clients, passengers etc); to importune
拉家常	to talk or chat about ordinary daily life
拉尼娜	La Niña, equatorial climatic variation over the Eastern Pacific, as opposed to El Niño 厄爾尼諾|厄尔尼诺
拉尼婭	Rania (name)
拉屎	to defecate; to shit; to crap
拉山頭	to start a clique; to form a faction
拉岡	Lacan (psychoanalyst)
拉巴斯	La Paz, administrative capital of Bolivia
拉巴特	Rabat, capital of Morocco
拉布	(Hong Kong) to filibuster
拉布布	Labubu, an elf-like toy character created by Hong Kong artist Kasing Lung
拉布拉多	Labrador, Canada; Labrador (a breed of dog)
拉帕斯	La Paz, administrative capital of Bolivia, usually written as 拉巴斯
拉平	to bring to the same level; to even up; to flare out
拉後鉤兒	(dialect) to leave unfinished business
拉德	rad (unit of absorbed dose of ionizing radiation) (loanword)
拉手	to hold hands; to shake hands
拉扯	to drag; to pull; to raise a child (through difficulties)
拉扯大	(coll.) to bring up; to rear; to raise
拉抬	(Tw) to pull sth up; (fig.) to give a boost to; to support
拉拉	(slang) lesbian; (coll.) Labrador retriever
拉拉扯扯	to tug at; to pull at sb aggressively
拉撒路	Lazarus (Protestant transliteration)
拉攏	to rope in; fig. to involve sb; to entice
拉文克勞	Ravenclaw (Harry Potter)
拉文納	Ravenna on the Adriatic coast of Italy
拉斐爾	Raphael
拉斐特	Lafayette
拉斯帕爾馬斯	Las Palmas, Spain
拉斯穆森	Rasmussen (name)
拉斯維加斯	Las Vegas, Nevada
拉新	(marketing) to acquire new users; to bring in new customers
拉普拉斯	Pierre Simon Laplace (1749-1827), French mathematician
拉普蘭	Lapland (northern Europe)
拉杆	tension bar
拉架	to try to stop a fight; to intervene in a fight
拉格朗日	Lagrange (name)
拉格比	Rugby (game); Rugby school in England
拉桿箱	rolling suitcase
拉森	(name) Larson, Larsen, Larsson or Lassen etc
拉比	(loanword) rabbi
拉沙病毒	Lassa virus
拉法格	Lafargue (name)
拉法蘭	Raffarin, prime minister of France under Jacques Chirac
拉法赫	Rafah, city in Palestine
拉活	(northern dialect) to pick up a fare (as a taxi driver)
拉滿	to max out; (of a feeling, atmosphere etc) to reach peak intensity
拉爾夫	Ralph (name)
拉爾維克	Larvik (city in Vestfold, Norway)
拉狄克	Karl Berngardovich Radek (1885-1939), Bolshevik and Comintern leader, first president of Moscow Sun Yat-sen University, died in prison during Stalin's purges
拉環	pull tab (on a drink can); strap handle (on a bus or train)
拉瓦爾	Laval (name)
拉瓦錫	Antoine Lavoisier (1743-1794), French nobleman and scientist, considered the father of modern chemistry
拉生意	to tout; to solicit customers
拉登	(Osama) bin Laden (1957-2011), leader of Al Qaeda
拉白布條	to hold up a white banner (i.e. to protest)
拉皮	to have a facelift; facelift
拉皮條	to procure; to act as pimp
拉碴	(of beard etc) stubbly; scraggly; unkempt
拉磨	(of a donkey etc) to turn a millstone
拉祜	Lahu ethnic group
拉祜族	Lahu ethnic group
拉票	to campaign for votes; to ask voters for support
拉科魯尼亞	La Coruña or A Coruña (city in Galicia, Spain)
拉稀	(coll.) to have diarrhea; to shrink back; to cower
拉筋	stretching (exercise)
拉管	trombone
拉米夫定	Lamivudine, reverse transcriptase inhibitor marketed by GlaxoSmithKline and widely used in the treatment of hepatitis B and AIDS
拉納卡	Larnaca (city in Cyprus); Larnaka
拉絲模	die (i.e. tool for cutting wire to a given diameter)
拉緊	to pull tight; tensioning
拉練	(military) to undergo field training (camping, bivouacking, route marching, live fire practice etc)
拉美	Latin America; abbr. for 拉丁美洲
拉美西斯	Rameses (name of pharaoh)
拉肚子	(coll.) to have diarrhea
拉胯	(slang) disappointing; lackluster; lame; performing poorly
拉脫維亞	Latvia
拉茲莫夫斯基	Razumovsky (name)
拉茶	teh tarik, an Indian-style tea with milk
拉莫斯	(Philippine President Fidel) Ramos
拉菲草	raffia (loanword)
拉蓋爾	Laguerre (name); Edmond Laguerre (1834-1886), French mathematician
拉薩市	Lhasa, prefecture-level city and capital of Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
拉薩條約	Treaty of Lhasa (1904) between British empire and Tibet
拉製	drawing (manufacturing process in which hot metal or glass is stretched)
拉話	(dialect) to chat
拉賈斯坦邦	Rajasthan (state in India)
拉赫曼尼諾夫	Rachmaninoff or Rachmaninov (name)
拉辛	Jean Racine (1639-1699), French dramatist
拉近	to pull sb close to oneself
拉近距離	to bring (people) closer together
拉達克	Ladakh, Indian-administered region in the Himalayas
拉那烈	Prince Norodom Ranariddh (1944-), Cambodian politician and son of former King Sihanouk of Cambodia
拉里	lari (currency of Georgia) (loanword)
拉鉤	to make a pinky promise
拉鋸	a two-man saw; fig. to-and-fro between two sides
拉鋸戰	to-and-fro tussle; closely-fought contest
拉鎖	zipper
拉鏈	zipper
拉鏈袋	resealable bag; ziplock bag; bag with a zipper
拉長	to lengthen; to pull sth out longer
拉長臉	to pull a long face; to scowl
拉開	to pull open; to pull apart; to space out
拉開序幕	(fig.) to raise the curtain; to lift the curtain
拉開架勢	to assume a fighting stance; (fig.) to take the offensive
拉關係	to seek contact with sb for one's own benefit; to suck up to sb
拉雜	disorganized; rambling; incoherent
拉青格	Ratzinger (German surname of Pope Benedict XVI)
拉頓	Rodan (Japanese ラドン Radon), Japanese movie monster
拉風	trendy; eye-catching; flashy
拉馬丹	Ramadan (loanword)
拉馬特甘	Ramat Gan, city in Israel, location of Bar-Ilan University
拉高	to pull up
拉魯	Lhalu, Tibetan name and place name
拉魯濕地國家自然保護區	Lhalu Wetland National Nature Reserve in Lhasa
拉麵	pulled noodles; ramen
拉黑	to add sb to one's blacklist (on a cellphone, or in instant messaging software etc)
拉齊奧	Lazio (region in Italy)
拊	pat
拊掌	to clap hands
拊髀	to slap one's own buttocks in excitement or despair
拋	to throw; to toss; to fling
拋下	to throw down; to dump; to abandon
拋光	to polish; to burnish
拋出	to toss; to throw out
拋卻	to discard
拋售	to dump (selling abroad more cheaply than cost price at home)
拋夫棄子	to abandon one's husband and child(ren)
拋妻棄子	to abandon one's wife and child(ren)
拋媚眼	to throw amorous or flirtatious glances at sb (esp. of a woman)
拋家棄子	(of a parent) to abandon one's family
拋射	to throw; to shoot
拋射物	projectile
拋射體	projectile
拋屍	(of a murderer) to dump a body
拋撒	to sprinkle
拋擲	to throw; to toss
拋散	to scatter; to disperse
拋棄	to abandon; to discard; to renounce
拋灑	to drip; to flow out; to sprinkle
拋物線	parabola
拋物面	(geometry) paraboloid
拋生藕	(Cantonese) (of a woman) to direct a coquettish look, comment or gesture at a guy
拋磚	to get the ball rolling (abbr. for 拋磚引玉|抛砖引玉[pao1 zhuan1 yin3 yu4])
拋磚引玉	lit. throw out a brick and get jade thrown back (idiom)
拋空	to short-sell (finance)
拋繡球	throwing the embroidered ball (traditional Zhuang flirting game at festivals)
拋臉	to lose face; humiliation
拋荒	to lie idle (of arable land); fig. rusty because of lack of practice
拋補	cover (i.e. insurance against loss in financial deals)
拋補套利	covered arbitrage
拋費	to waste; to squander
拋錨	to drop anchor; (fig.) (of a car etc) to break down
拋開	to throw out; to get rid of
拋離	to desert; to leave; to forsake
拋頭露面	to put oneself out in the public eye (said of sb for whom doing so is deemed unseemly)
拋體	projectile
拌	to mix; to mix in; to toss (a salad)
拌和	to mix and stir; to blend
拌嘴	to bicker; to squabble; to quarrel
拌嘴鬥舌	to quarrel
拌炒	to stir-fry
拌種	seed dressing
拌蒜	to stagger (walk unsteadily)
拌飯	bibimbap (Korean cuisine)
拌麵	noodles served with soy sauce, sesame butter etc
拍	to pat; to clap; to slap
拍出	to sell at auction; to reach a given price at auction
拍婆子	(Beijing slang, 1960s–70s) to chat up girls; to flirt with unfamiliar girls
拍子	beat (music); paddle-shaped object (flyswatter etc); racket (sports)
拍客	citizen journalist (typically posting short, self-produced documentary videos on the Web)
拍岸	to beat against the shore (of waves)
拍戲	to shoot a movie
拍手	to clap one's hands
拍打	to pat; to slap; (of a bird) to flap (one's wings)
拍拍屁股走人	to make oneself scarce; to slip away; to take French leave
拍拖	(dialect) to date sb
拍擊	to smack; to beat
拍攝	to take (a picture); to shoot (a film)
拍板	wooden clappers (percussion instrument)
拍案	lit. to slap the table (in amazement, praise, anger, resentment etc)
拍案叫絕	lit. slap the table and shout with praise (idiom); fig. wonderful!
拍案而起	(idiom) to slam the table and rise to one's feet in indignation
拍案驚奇	to slap the table in amazement (idiom); wonderful!; amazing!
拍檔	partner
拍演	(dialect) to perform; to act (in a play etc)
拍照	to take a picture
拍片	to shoot a film; to have a medical imaging procedure
拍發	to send; to cable (a telegram)
拍磚	(slang) to throw brickbats; to criticize harshly
拍立得	Polaroid (Tw)
拍紙簿	writing pad
拍胸脯	to vouch for
拍號	time signature (music)
拍謝	(Tw) excuse me; to be sorry; apologetic; embarrassed; shy (from Taiwanese 歹勢, Tai-lo pr. [pháinn-sè]) (also sometimes written as 歹勢 in Mandarin)
拍賣	to auction; auction sale; to sell at a reduced price
拍賣商	auctioneer; auction house
拍賣師	auctioneer
拍賣會	auction
拍電	to send a telegram
拍電影	to make a movie
拍馬	to urge on a horse by patting its bottom; fig. to encourage
拍馬屁	to flatter; to fawn on; to butter sb up
拍黃瓜	smashed cucumber salad
拍點	(music) beat
拎	to lift up; to carry in one's hand; Taiwan pr. [ling1]
拎包	handbag or shopping bag (dialect)
拎包黨	(coll.) purse snatcher
拎起	to pick up (from the ground with one's hands)
拐	to turn (a corner etc); to kidnap; to swindle
拐子	crutch; (derog.) lame person; kidnapper
拐彎	to go round a curve; to turn a corner; fig. a new direction
拐彎抹角	lit. going round the curves and skirting the corners (idiom)
拐彎處	corner; bend
拐杖	crutches; crutch; walking stick
拐棍	cane; walking stick
拐角	to turn a corner; corner
拐角處	street corner
拐賣	human trafficking; to abduct and sell; to kidnap and sell
拐騙	swindle; abduct
拐點	turning point; breaking point
拑	pliers; pincers; to clamp
拒	to resist; to repel; to refuse
拒不接受	refusing to accept
拒之門外	to lock one's door and refuse to see sb
拒付	to refuse to accept a payment; to refuse to pay
拒保	to refuse to insure; to exclude from insurance coverage
拒捕	to resist arrest
拒接	to reject; to refuse to take a call
拒收	to reject; to refuse to accept
拒斥	to reject
拒簽	to refuse (a visa application etc)
拒絕	to refuse; to decline; to reject
拒絕服務攻擊	(computing) denial-of-service attack (DDOS)
拒腐防變	to fight corruption and forestall moral degeneration
拒載	to refuse to take a passenger (of taxi)
拒馬	cheval de frise (a type of barrier)
拓	to expand; to push sth with the hand; to develop
拓印	stone rubbing (to copy an inscription)
拓寬	to broaden
拓展	to expand; to extend; to broaden (client base, outlook, territory etc)
拓展塢	(computing) hub; dock
拓展視野	to broaden one's horizons
拓展訓練	outdoor education program
拓拔	branch of the Xianbei 鮮卑|鲜卑 nomadic people, founders of Wei 北魏 of the Northern Dynasties (386-534)
拓撲	(math.) (loanword) topology
拓撲學	(math.) topology
拓撲空間	(math.) topological space
拓撲結構	topological structure
拓本	rubbing of inscription
拓片	rubbings from a tablet
拓荒	to open up land (for agriculture)
拓荒者	pioneer; groundbreaker
拓跋	branch of the Xianbei 鮮卑|鲜卑 nomadic people, founders of Wei 北魏 of the Northern Dynasties (386-534)
拓跋魏	Wei of the Northern Dynasties (386-534)
拔	to pull up; to pull out; to draw out by suction
拔出蘿蔔帶出泥	lit. when you pull a radish out of the ground, some dirt comes up with it (idiom)
拔取	to pick out; to select and recruit; to pluck
拔地	to rise steeply from level ground
拔地而起	(idiom) (of a building etc) to rise out of the ground
拔尖	top-notch (colloquial); to push oneself to the front
拔掉	to pluck; to pull off; to pull out
拔擢	select the best people for promotion
拔染	discharge
拔根	(lit. and fig.) to uproot
拔根汗毛比腰粗	lit. a hair plucked from (person A) would be thicker than (person B)'s waist (idiom)
拔槍	to draw a gun
拔毒	draw out pus by applying a plaster to the affected area
拔毛	to pull out hair; to pluck; epilation
拔河	tug-of-war; to take part in a tug-of-war
拔海	elevation (above sea level)
拔涼拔涼	(dialect) very cold; chilled
拔火罐	(TCM) to cup; to give a cupping treatment
拔營	to strike camp
拔牙	to extract a tooth
拔示巴	Bathsheba, wife of Uriah the Hittite and later of David (according to the Hebrew Bible)
拔秧	to pull up seedlings (for transplanting)
拔節	jointing (agriculture)
拔節期	elongation stage; jointing stage (agriculture)
拔絲	wire drawing; candied floss (cooking); spun sugar or toffee (coating)
拔罐	cupping glass
拔罐子	to practice cupping (technique used in TCM)
拔罐法	fire cupping (acupressure technique of Chinese medicine, with fired vacuum cup applied to the skin)
拔群	outstanding; exceptionally good
拔腿	to break into a run
拔苗助長	to spoil things through excessive enthusiasm (idiom)
拔茅連茹	lit. pull up a plant and the roots follow (idiom); fig. also involving others
拔萃	to distinguish oneself; to be of outstanding talent
拔釘錘	claw hammer
拔錨	to weigh anchor
拔除	to pull out; to remove
拔頂	topping (mining)
拔高	to raise (one's voice); to overrate; to build up
拖	to drag; to tow; to trail
拖下水	lit. to pull sb into the water; to involve sb in a messy business
拖人下水	lit. to pull sb into the water; fig. to involve sb in a messy business
拖住	to hold up; to hinder; to stall
拖債	to default on a debt
拖兒帶女	supporting a wife and children
拖動	to drag; to tow; (computing) to drag (mouse operation)
拖動力	motive force; traction
拖吊	to tow (a car)
拖吊車	tow truck
拖地	to mop the floor; (of a gown etc) to trail on the ground; full-length
拖地板	to mop the floor
拖垮	to drag down; to bring down
拖堂	to drag out a lesson; to insist on extending class after the bell
拖字訣	delaying tactics
拖宕	to delay; to postpone
拖家帶口	(idiom) to take one's whole family along; to have a family in tow; to be tied down by family obligations
拖尾巴	to obstruct; to be a drag on sb; to delay finishing off a job
拖布	mop
拖帶	traction; towing; pulling
拖延	to delay; to put off; to procrastinate
拖延戰術	delaying tactics; deliberate procrastination
拖延時間	to procrastinate; to stall for time; to filibuster
拖延症	procrastination
拖後腿	to impede; to obstruct; to hold back
拖慢	to retard; to slow sth down
拖把	mop
拖拉	to drag along; to haul; (fig.) to procrastinate
拖拉機	tractor
拖拖拉拉	to procrastinate
拖拖沓沓	dragging one's feet
拖拽	to pull; to drag; to haul
拖掛	to pull; to tow
拖掛車	18-wheeler; big rig; semi-trailer
拖放	drag-and-drop (computing)
拖斗	small open trailer
拖曳	to pull; to drag; to haul
拖曳傘	parasail
拖曳機	tractor
拖欠	in arrears; behind in payments; to default on one's debts
拖歐	to go through a difficult and protracted process in withdrawing from the EU, as in the case of Brexit (a play on 脫歐|脱欧[tuo1 Ou1])
拖沓	dilatory; sluggish; muddled; roundabout
拖油瓶	(derog.) (of a woman) to bring one's children into a second marriage
拖泥帶水	(idiom) muddy and wet
拖牽索道	anchor lift (ski-lift)
拖磨	dawdling; to waste time
拖移	to tow; (computing) to drag
拖累	to encumber; to be a burden on; to implicate
拖累症	codependency (psychology)
拖網	dragnet; trawl; trawlnet
拖船	tugboat; boat towed by a tugboat; to tow a boat
拖行	to drag; to tow
拖走	to drag away
拖車	to tow; towed vehicle; towing vehicle
拖車頭	trailer truck
拖輪	tugboat
拖進	to drag in
拖鏈	cable carrier (used to protect cables and hoses attached to a machine)
拖長	to lengthen; to drag out
拖雷	Tolui (1193-1232), fourth son of Genghis Khan
拖鞋	slippers; sandals; flip-flops
拖鞋麵包	ciabatta (Tw)
拖駁	barge; lighter (pulled by a tugboat)
拗	(dialect) to twist; to bend (in order to break sth or form it into a shape)
拗不過	can't persuade; unable to make (sb) change their mind; unable to resist (sb)
拗口	hard to pronounce; awkward-sounding
拗口令	tongue twister
拗斷	(dialect) to break (by twisting, bending, snapping etc)
拘	to capture; to restrain; to constrain
拘傳	subpoena; to summon (for questioning)
拘囚	to imprison; prisoner
拘執	rigid; inflexible
拘守	to hold tight; to cling to; to adhere
拘役	detention
拘忌	to have scruples; to have misgivings
拘押	to arrest; to take into custody
拘押營	detention center; prison camp
拘拿	to arrest
拘捕	to arrest
拘攣	cramps; muscular spasm; fig. constrained
拘束	to restrict; to restrain; constrained
拘束衣	straightjacket
拘檢	restrained and cautious
拘泥	to be a stickler for formalities; to rigidly adhere to; to cling to
拘牽	restrained; confined
拘留	to detain (as a prisoner); to keep sb in custody
拘留所	detention center; prison
拘票	warrant (for arrest)
拘禁	constraint; to detain; to take into custody
拘禮	to stand on ceremony; punctilious
拘謹	reserved; overcautious
拘迂	inflexible; stubborn
拙	awkward; clumsy; dull
拙作	my unworthy manuscript (humble expr.); my humble writing
拙劣	clumsy; botched
拙政園	Humble Administrator's Garden in Suzhou, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
拙於言詞	to be unable to express oneself clearly (idiom)
拙樸	austere; humble
拙澀	clumsy and incomprehensible; botched writing
拙直	simple and frank
拙稿	my unworthy manuscript (humble expr.); my humble writing
拙笨	clumsy; awkward; lacking skill
拙筆	my clumsy writing (humble expr.); my humble pen
拙荊	my wife (humble)
拙著	my unworthy writing (humble expr.); my worthless manuscript
拙見	my unworthy opinion (humble expr.)
拚	to strive for; to struggle; to disregard
拚去	to reject; to abandon
拚棄	to abandon; to discard; to throw away
拚死	to risk one's life
拚財	to make rash speculations
拚除	to reject; to abandon
招	to recruit; to provoke; to beckon
招人	to recruit; to hire people
招人喜歡	charming; attractive; delightful
招來	to attract; to incur
招供	to confess
招兵	to recruit soldiers
招兵買馬	lit. to recruit soldiers and buy horses (idiom)
招募	to recruit; to enlist
招呼	to call out to; to greet; to say hello to
招呼站	request bus stop
招商	to seek investment or funding; investment promotion
招商引資	investment promotion
招喚	to call; to summon
招妓	to hire a prostitute
招嫖	(of a sex worker) to solicit customers
招安	to enlist enemy or rebel soldiers by offering amnesty
招展	to flutter; to sway
招工	to recruit employees
招式	(martial arts) formalized move
招引	to attract
招待	to hold a reception; to offer hospitality; to entertain (guests); to serve (customers)
招待員	service personnel: usher, waiter, receptionist, hostess etc
招待所	guesthouse; hostel
招待會	a reception
招徠	to canvass (for customers); to solicit; to recruit
招怨	to arouse resentment
招惹	to court (trouble); to attract (attention); to provoke (sb)
招手	to wave; to beckon
招打	to ask for a beating
招投標	bid inviting and bid offering; bidding; auction
招接	to receive (guests, clients); to interact socially with
招搖	to rock back and forth; (fig.) to act ostentatiously; to brag
招搖撞騙	(idiom) to dupe people by passing oneself off as a well-connected individual or a figure of authority
招搖過市	(idiom) to parade oneself ostentatiously about town
招撫	to enlist enemy or rebel soldiers by offering amnesty
招攬	to attract (customers); to drum up (trade)
招攬生意	to advertise; to solicit business
招收	to hire; to recruit
招數	move (in chess, on stage, in martial arts); gambit; trick
招架	to resist; to ward off; to hold one's own
招標	to invite bids
招法	move (in chess or martial arts)
招潮蟹	fiddler crab (genus Uca)
招災惹禍	to invite disaster
招牌	signboard; shop sign; reputation of a business
招牌動作	signature move
招牌紙	label; sticker
招牌菜	signature dish; a restaurant’s most famous dish
招生	to enroll new students; to get students
招生官	admissions officer; enrollment officer; college recruiter
招租	(of a house or room) to be for rent
招笑	to provoke laughter; silly; ridiculous
招考	to advertise an entrance examination for an academic institution (old)
招聘	to invite applications for a job; to recruit
招聘會	recruitment meeting; job fair
招聘機構	recruiting agency
招聘者	prospective employer; job advertiser; recruiter
招股	share offer
招股書	(finance) share prospectus
招股說明書	prospectus
招致	to recruit (followers); to scout for (talent etc); to incur
招蜂引蝶	(lit.) (of a flower) to attract bees and butterflies (idiom)
招親	to invite the groom (who will live with the bride's family)
招認	to confess
招誘	to invite; to recruit; to attract
招請	to recruit; to take on (an employee)
招財	lit. inviting wealth
招財貓	maneki-neko or "lucky cat", Japanese figurine cat usually found at the entrance of shops, restaurants etc, believed to bring good fortune
招財進寶	ushering in wealth and prosperity (idiom and traditional greeting, esp. at New Year); We wish you wealth and success!
招貼	poster; placard; bill
招貼畫	picture poster (for advertising or propaganda)
招賢納士	invite the talented and call the valorous (idiom); to recruit talent
招贅	to have the groom move into the bride's house after marriage
招辦	admissions office (for enrolling students) (abbr. for 招生辦公室|招生办公室[zhao1 sheng1 ban4 gong1 shi4])
招遠市	Zhaoyuan, a county-level city in Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
招錄	to recruit
招降	to ask for sb's surrender
招降納叛	to recruit surrendered enemy and deserters (idiom); to gather together a gang of villains
招集	to call on (people) to gather; to convene
招領	to advertise for the owner of lost property
招風	to catch the wind
招風惹草	(idiom) to bring trouble on oneself
招風耳	jug ears
招魂	to call back the soul of sb who has died or is seriously ill
招魂幡	flag to attract departed spirits
招魂旛	flag to attract departed spirits
拜	to bow to; to pay one's respects
拜人為師	to acknowledge as one's teacher
拜佛	to worship Buddha
拜你所賜	(derog.) this is all thanks to you!; well, thanks a lot!
拜倒	to prostrate oneself; to fall on one's knees; to grovel
拜倫	George Byron (1788-1824), English poet
拜別	(formal) to take leave of sb; to bid farewell
拜占庭	Byzantium; Byzantine or Eastern Roman empire (395-1453)
拜城縣	Baicheng, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
拜堂	ritual kneeling to heaven and earth by bride and groom in a old-fashioned wedding ceremony
拜壽	congratulate an elderly person on his birthday
拜天地	to worship heaven and earth
拜師	to formally become an apprentice to a master
拜年	to pay a New Year call; to wish sb a Happy New Year
拜懺	to hold a daytime Buddhist mass; (of a monk or nun) to read scripture to atone for sb's sins
拜把子	to become sworn brothers
拜拜	to pay one's respects by bowing with hands in front of one's chest clasping joss sticks, or with palms pressed together
拜會	(often used in the context of diplomacy) to meet with; to pay a visit to; to call on
拜望	to call to pay one's respect; to call on
拜泉縣	Baiquan, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
拜物教	fetishism
拜登	Biden (name)
拜票	to canvass for votes (Tw)
拜祭	to worship; to observe religious rites
拜科努爾	Baikonur (Russian space launch site in Kazakhstan)
拜科努爾航天發射基地	Baikonur Cosmodrome
拜節	to pay respects during a festival
拜見	to pay a formal visit; to call to pay respects
拜託	to request sb to do sth; please!
拜訪	to pay a visit; to call on
拜認	to formally accept sb as (one's adoptive mother, one's master etc)
拜謁	to pay a formal visit; to call to pay respects
拜讀	(polite) to read (sth)
拜金	to worship money; to be mad about money
拜金主義	money worship
拜金女	materialistic woman; (slang) gold-digger
拜魔	to worship the devil
拤	to grip with both hands; to put one's hands on (one's hips)
拫	to pull; to drag; to stop
括	(bound form) to tie up; to tighten up
括弧	parentheses; brackets
括毒	(literary) malicious; spiteful
括約肌	sphincter
括線	(math.) vinculum
括號	parentheses; brackets
拭	to wipe
拭子	swab; cotton pad; smear (for medical test)
拭抹	to swab; to wipe up with a mop
拭目	to wipe one's eyes; fig. to remain vigilant
拭目以待	lit. to wipe one's eyes and wait (idiom); to wait and see
拭目傾耳	to watch and listen attentively
拭除	to wipe off
拮	antagonistic; laboring hard; pressed
拮据	hard pressed for money; in financial straits
拯	to raise; to aid; to support
拯救	to save; to rescue
拯救大兵瑞恩	Saving Private Ryan (1998 movie)
拱	to cup one's hands in salute; to surround; to arch
拱墅區	Gongshu, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
拱墩	pillar of a vault
拱壩	an arch dam
拱度	camber
拱廊	triforium (gallery of arches above side-aisle vaulting in the nave of a church)
拱形	arch
拱手	to cup one's hands in obeisance or greeting; (fig.) submissive
拱手相讓	(idiom) to surrender sth without resistance
拱手讓人	(idiom) to surrender sth without resistance
拱抱	to enfold; to encircle
拱柱	pillar of a vault
拱橋	arch bridge
拱火	(dialect) (fig.) to fan the flames; to fuel sb's anger
拱狀	arch; vault; arched
拱璧	a flat round jade ornament with a hole at the center; fig. a treasure
拱肩	a spandrel (wall filling the shoulder between two neighboring arches)
拱衛	to surround and protect
拱道	archway
拱門	arched door
拱頂	an arched roof; a dome; a vault
拱點	(astronomy) apsis; apse
拳	fist; boxing
拳交	fisting (sex act)
拳套	boxing glove
拳師	boxing coach; pugilist master
拳手	boxer
拳打	to punch
拳打腳踢	lit. to punch and kick (idiom); to beat up
拳拳	(literary) earnest; sincere
拳擊	boxing
拳擊手	boxer
拳擊手套	boxing glove
拳擊臺	boxing ring
拳擊選手	boxer
拳曲	to curl
拳棒	martial arts; kung fu
拳法	boxing; fighting technique
拳王	boxing champion
拳腳	Chinese boxing; fist and feet; punching and kicking
拳腳相向	to square off; to exchange blows; to rain blows on sb
拳術	Chinese boxing; fisticuffs
拳頭	fist; (of a product, service, project etc) flagship; key; core
拳頭產品	flagship product; star product
拴	to tie up
拴住	to tether; to tie up; (fig.) to restrict
拶	(literary) to force; to coerce
拶刑	squeezing the fingers between sticks (old form of torture)
拶子	sticks used for squeezing the fingers (old form of torture)
拶指	to squeeze the fingers (old form of torture)
拶榨	to exploit (a worker)
拷	to beat; to flog; to examine under torture
拷問	to question via torture
拷打	to beat a prisoner (to obtain confessions)
拷掠	to torture
拷花	to emboss
拷貝	copy; to copy (loanword)
拼	to piece together; to put together; to pool (resources etc); to share
拼到底	to brave it out; to the bitter end
拼刺	bayonet charge
拼刺刀	bayonet charge
拼力	to spare no efforts
拼卡	to share a card with sb (e.g. share a loyalty card to accumulate points and split the benefits)
拼合	to fit together; to put together
拼命	to do one's utmost; with all one's might; at all costs; (to work or fight) as if one's life depends on it
拼命三郎	brave man, willing to risk his life
拼命討好	to throw oneself at sb or sth; to bend over backwards to help
拼單	to pool orders (for bulk discounts or reduced shipping); to join a group purchase (esp. online)
拼圖	jigsaw puzzle; to do a jigsaw puzzle
拼圖玩具	jigsaw puzzle
拼多多	Pinduoduo, social e-commerce company founded in 2015
拼婚	to save money on wedding expenses by getting together with another couple (or couples) in arranging restaurant reservations, wedding photo shoots etc
拼字	to spell; spelling
拼客	person who joins with others to reduce costs (carpooling, group buying, sharing an apartment etc)
拼寫	to spell
拼成	to put sth together from component parts
拼房	to rent a place with sb else to share the costs
拼接	to put together; to join
拼搏	to struggle; to wrestle
拼搶	to fight desperately (at the risk of one's life)
拼攏	to put together
拼攢	to assemble
拼板	to edge-join boards with glue to form a panel (woodworking)
拼板玩具	jigsaw puzzle; wood block puzzle
拼板遊戲	jigsaw puzzle; wood block puzzle
拼桌	to sit at a table with others with whom one is unacquainted
拼死	to go all out for sth at risk of one's life
拼死拼活	one's utmost; (to fight or work) desperately hard
拼殺	to grapple (with the enemy); to fight at the risk of one's life
拼法	spelling
拼湊	to assemble; to put together
拼火	to exchange fire
拼爭	to fight desperately
拼爹	(slang) to rely on one's father's wealth or prestige to get ahead
拼版	to typeset; to make up (printers' plates)
拼盤	sampler platter; appetizer platter
拼綴	to join together
拼花地板	floor with tiled design
拼裝	to assemble
拼讀	to pronounce a word after mentally processing its spelling
拼豆	fuse bead craft (making pixel-style designs by ironing plastic beads)
拼貼	pastiche; collage
拼起來	to put together
拼車	to carpool
拼錯	to misspell; to piece together incorrectly
拼音	phonetic writing; pinyin (Chinese romanization)
拼音字母	phonetic letters
拼音文字	phonetic alphabet; alphabetic writing system
拼餐	(of people with tight budget) to enjoy various dishes at the restaurant by ordering the food together and then sharing the costs
拼鬥	to engage (in a fight)
拽	self-satisfied; cocky (alternative written form of 跩[zhuai3])
拽姐	(slang) confident and assertive young woman; badass woman
拽步	to take long strides; to hurry (while walking)
拾	to pick up; to collate or arrange; ten (banker's anti-fraud numeral)
拾人涕唾	to plagiarize (idiom)
拾人牙慧	to pick up what others say (idiom); to pass off other people's opinions as one's own
拾取	to pick up; to collect
拾得	Shide, Tang Buddhist poet who lived at the Guoqing Temple on Mt Tiantai 天台山[Tian1 tai1 Shan1]
拾掇	to clear up; to tidy up; to pick up
拾物	picked up items (i.e. lost property)
拾獲	to find; to pick up; to obtain
拾級	to go up or down stairs step by step
拾級而上	to walk slowly up a flight of steps (idiom)
拾芥	to pick up cress; fig. sth easy to do; a piece of cake
拾荒	to glean; to collect scraps; to eke out a meager living
拾遺	to pocket a lost article; (fig.) to correct others' errors
拾遺補缺	to remedy omissions and correct errors (idiom)
拾金不昧	to pick up money and not hide it (idiom); to return property to its owner
拾零	to pick up bits; to collect scrap material; tidbits
拾音器	pickup (electro-acoustic transducer)
拿	to hold; to seize; to catch
拿一血	(gaming) to get first blood; (slang) to take (sb's) virginity
拿下	to arrest; to capture; to seize
拿不准	in doubt; unsure of sth; unable to decide; indecisive
拿不出手	not presentable; shoddy and too embarrassing to show
拿不動	to be unable to lift (sth); to find (sth) too heavy
拿主意	to make a decision; to make up one's mind
拿人	making things awkward; to cause difficulties; to exert influence
拿你沒辦法	don't know what to do with you (used to express mild exasperation)
拿來	to bring; to fetch; to get
拿來主義	the attitude of mechanically borrowing (ideas etc)
拿俄米	Naomi (name)
拿出	to take out; to put out; to provide
拿到	to get; to obtain
拿喬	pretentious; striking a pose
拿大	to put on airs; self-important; high and mighty
拿大頂	to do a handstand
拿得起放得下	lit. can pick it up or put it down (idiom); fig. to take what comes
拿手	expert in; good at
拿手好戲	the role an actor plays best (idiom); (fig.) one's specialty
拿手菜	specialty (dish)
拿捏	(lit. and fig.) to grasp; to control; (dialect) affecting shyness; coy
拿捕	to detain; to apprehend; to capture
拿撒勒	Nazareth (in Biblical Palestine)
拿架子	to throw one's weight around; to put on airs
拿權	to hold power; to be in control
拿獲	to capture; to apprehend
拿破崙	Napoleon (name)
拿破崙·波拿巴	Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821), Emperor of France 1804-1815
拿索	Nassau, capital of The Bahamas (Tw)
拿著雞毛當令箭	to wave a chicken feather as a token of authority (idiom); to assume unwarranted authority on the basis of some pretext
拿走	to take away
拿起	to pick up
拿辦	to arrest for punishment
拿鐵	latte (loanword)
拿鐵咖啡	caffè latte
拿頂	to do a handstand
拿順	Nashon (son of Amminadab)
拿騷	Nassau, capital of The Bahamas
持	to hold; to grasp; to support
持不同政見	(politically) dissenting; dissident
持不同政見者	(political) dissident
持久	lasting; enduring; persistent
持久性毒劑	persistent agent
持久戰	prolonged war; war of attrition
持之以恆	to pursue unremittingly (idiom); to persevere
持份者	(HK) stakeholder
持倉	(finance) to hold one's securities (rather than selling them)
持倉量	position (finance)
持刀	to hold a knife; knife-wielding
持卡人	cardholder
持國天	Dhritarashtra (one of the Four Heavenly Kings)
持守	to maintain; to adhere to; to observe (an injunction etc)
持家	to housekeep; to run one's household
持平	to stay level (of exchange rate, market share etc); fair; unbiased
持平之論	fair argument; unbiased view
持方	side (in a formal debate)
持有	to hold (passport, views etc)
持有人	holder
持械	armed (robbery etc)
持槍	to carry a gun
持槍搶劫	armed robbery
持橐簪筆	to serve as a counselor (idiom)
持用	to have in one's possession and use when required
持續	to continue; to last; to persist
持續性植物狀態	persistent vegetative state (medicine)
持續時間	duration
持股	to hold shares
持重	prudent; cautious; to be in charge of ritual ceremonies
指	finger; to point at or to; to indicate or refer to
指事	ideogram (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters)
指事字	ideogram (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters)
指交	fingering (sexual act)
指代	to refer to; to be used in place of
指令	to order; to command; an order; a command; an instruction
指令集	(computing) instruction set
指使	to incite; to prompt (sb to do sth)
指出	to indicate; to point out
指到	to point at; to indicate
指北	guide; handbook
指北針	compass
指南	to guide; guidebook
指南宮	Zhinan Temple, Taoist temple in the hills of Muzha 木柵|木栅[Mu4 zha4], Taipei
指南車	a mechanical compass invented by Zu Chongzhi 祖沖之|祖冲之
指南針	compass
指印	fingerprint; finger mark; thumbprint
指名	to mention by name; to designate; designated
指向	to point towards; aimed at; facing
指向裝置	pointing device (computing)
指壓	acupressure; shiatsu
指姦	to finger-rape; digital rape
指定	to appoint; to assign; to indicate clearly and with certainty
指導	to guide; to direct; to instruct; coach; trainer
指導員	instructor; coach; political instructor (in the PLA)
指導教授	adviser; advising professor
指導者	coach; mentor; counselor; instructor; director; guide; conductor
指導課	tutorial; period of tuition for one or two students
指尖	fingertip
指尖陀螺	fidget spinner
指居	(law) residential surveillance at a designated location (PRC legal measure confining suspects to government-assigned residences under continuous monitoring) (abbr. for 指定居所監視居住|指定居所监视居住[zhi3 ding4 ju1 suo3 jian1 shi4 ju1 zhu4])
指引	to guide; to show; to point (the way)
指徵	(medicine) indicator; indication
指戰員	PLA commanders and fighters
指手畫腳	to gesticulate while talking (idiom); to explain by waving one's hands
指指點點	to gesticulate; to point out; to point the finger of blame
指授	to instruct; to direct
指控	accusation; a (criminal) charge; to accuse
指揮	to conduct; to command; to direct
指揮中心	command center
指揮官	commander
指揮家	(music) conductor
指揮棒	baton
指揮者	conductor; director
指揮部	headquarters; command post
指摘	to criticize
指摹	fingerprint; thumbprint; also written 指模[zhi3 mo2]
指教	to offer advice, guidance, or feedback
指數	(numerical, statistical) index; (math.) exponent
指數函數	exponential function
指數基金	index fund
指數套利	index arbitrage
指數期權	index options
指斥	to denounce; to censure; to rebuke
指日可待	imminent; just around the corner (idiom)
指明	to show clearly; to designate; to indicate
指望	to count on; to hope for; prospect; hope
指板	fingerboard (of a guitar or violin etc)
指桑罵槐	lit. to point at the mulberry tree and curse the locust tree
指標	(production) target; quota; index; indicator; sign; signpost
指模	fingerprint; thumbprint; also written 指摹[zhi3 mo2]
指檢	(medicine) digital examination (of a patient's rectum, vagina etc)
指正	to point out mistakes or weak points for correction; to comment
指法	(music) fingering; (TCM) manipulation of acupuncture needles
指派	to assign; to appoint; assignment
指環	(finger) ring
指甲	fingernail
指甲刀	nail clipper
指甲剪	nail clipper
指甲油	nail polish
指甲蓋	fingernail
指甲鉗	nail clipper
指界	determination of cadastral parcel boundaries
指疔	whitlow; felon
指示	to point out; to indicate; to instruct
指示代詞	demonstrative pronoun
指示劑	indicator
指示器	indicator
指示符	indicator
指稱	designation; reference; to refer to
指節	finger segment; knuckle
指紋	fingerprint; the arches, loops and whorls on the fingers
指考	Advanced Subjects Test, university entrance exam that assesses candidates’ higher level knowledge of specific subjects and their readiness to study in their selected academic discipline (Tw)
指腹	finger pad
指腹為婚	to propose the future marriage of two unborn babies on condition that one turns out to be a boy, and the other, a girl (idiom)
指著和尚罵禿子	lit. to insult a bald man while pointing at a monk (idiom)
指認	to identify
指謫	to criticize
指證	to testify; to give evidence
指責	to criticize; to find fault with; to denounce
指路	to give directions
指針	pointer on a gauge; clock hand; cursor
指關節	knuckle
指雞罵狗	lit. to point at the chicken while scolding the dog (idiom)
指頭	finger; toe
指鹿作馬	to take a deer and call it a horse (idiom); deliberate inversion of the truth
指鹿為馬	making a deer out to be a horse (idiom); deliberate misrepresentation
指點	to point out; to indicate; to give directions
指點江山	to talk idly about important matters (idiom)
指點迷津	to show sb how to get to the right path
挈	to raise; to lift; to take along (e.g. one's family)
挈帶	to take along
挈挈	alone; solitary
按	to press; to push; to leave aside or shelve
按下	to press down; to press a button
按下葫蘆浮起瓢	solve one problem only to find another cropping up
按兵不動	to hold back one's troops without moving (idiom); to bide one's time
按勞分配	distribution according to work
按圖索驥	lit. looking for a fine horse using only a picture (idiom)
按壓	to press; to push (a button)
按天	daily (law); per diem
按季	according to season; quarterly
按察	to investigate (old)
按手禮	ordination
按扣	snap fastener
按捺	to restrain; to control
按捺不住	to be unable to hold back
按揭	a mortgage (loanword via Cantonese); to buy property on a mortgage
按摩	massage; to massage
按摩師	masseur; massage therapist
按摩棒	vibrator; dildo
按摩浴缸	jacuzzi; whirlpool tub
按日	daily (law); per diem
按時	on time; before deadline; on schedule
按時間先後	chronological
按月	monthly; per mensem
按期	on schedule; on time
按照	according to; in accordance with; on the basis of
按理	according to reason; in the ordinary course of events; normally
按理說	it is reasonable to say that...
按立	ordination
按脈	to feel (take) the pulse
按蚊	anopheles; malarial mosquito
按診	palpation (as a method of examination)
按語	note; comment
按說	in the ordinary course of events; ordinarily; normally
按讚	(Tw) to like (on social media)
按蹻	(old) massage
按部就班	(idiom) to follow the prescribed order; to keep to the working routine
按鈕	to push a button
按鍵	button or key (on a device); keystroke; to press a button
按鍵音	keypad tone; key tone
按需	on demand; according to demand
按需出版	publishing on demand
按需分配	distribution according to need
挌	fight
挍	compare; criticize
挎	to carry (esp. slung over the arm, shoulder or side)
挎兜	satchel; backpack
挎包	satchel; bag
挎斗	sidecar
挐	to apprehend; to take
挑	to carry on a shoulder pole; to choose; to pick
挑三揀四	to be picky; to be choosy
挑三窩四	to sow discord everywhere
挑刺	to carp; nitpicking; petty criticism
挑剔	picky; fussy
挑動	to entice; to arouse; to provoke
挑口板	fascia; eaves board
挑唆	to incite; to stir up; to instigate
挑嘴	picky about food
挑大梁	to play a leading role; to bear a heavy responsibility
挑夫	porter
挑子	carrying pole and its load
挑山工	laborers who carry cargo up and down the mountains on shoulder poles
挑弄	to incite; to provoke; to tease
挑戰	to challenge; to take on a challenge; a challenge
挑戰者	challenger
挑戰者號	Space Shuttle Challenger
挑揀	to pick and choose; to select
挑撥	to incite disharmony; to instigate
挑撥是非	to incite a quarrel (idiom); to sow discord between people
挑撥離間	to sow dissension (idiom); to drive a wedge between
挑明	to illuminate; to open up (a topic)
挑染	highlight (hair); partial hair dye
挑毛剔刺	to find fault; to carp; nitpicking
挑毛病	to nitpick; petty criticism; to nag
挑燈	to light a lamp; to raise a lantern
挑燈夜戰	to raise a lantern and fight at night (idiom); fig. to work into the night
挑燈撥火	to sow discord; to provoke
挑簷	eaves
挑肥揀瘦	(idiom) to cherry-pick; to pick the best parts for oneself; to be choosy
挑花	cross-stitch (embroidery)
挑花眼	(fig.) to get cross-eyed; to be bewildered
挑起	to provoke; to stir up; to incite
挑逗	to provoke; to entice; to lure
挑逗性	provocative; tantalizing; titillating
挑選	to choose; to select
挑釁	to provoke; provocation
挑頭	to take the lead; to be first to (do sth); to pioneer
挑食	to be picky about food
挑高	(architecture) high-ceilinged; to raise (a ceiling) to a height of
挓	to open out; to expand
挖	to dig; to excavate; to scoop out
挖土機	excavator; backhoe
挖坑	to dig a hole; (fig.) to make things difficult for sb
挖墳	to dig a grave
挖掉	to dig out; to eradicate
挖掘	to excavate; (lit and fig.) to unearth; to dig into
挖掘機	excavator; excavating machine
挖掘機械	excavator; bulldozer
挖機	excavator; excavating machine (abbr. for 挖掘機|挖掘机[wa1 jue2 ji1])
挖泥船	dredger
挖洞	to dig a hole
挖浚	to dredge
挖牆腳	to undermine; to let someone down
挖礦	to mine ore or minerals; (computing) to mine cryptocurrency
挖穴	to excavate; to dig out a cave
挖空	to excavate; to hollow
挖空心思	to dig for thoughts (idiom); to search everything for an answer
挖耳勺	ear pick
挖肉補瘡	to cut one's flesh to cover a sore (idiom); faced with a current crisis, to make it worse by a temporary expedient
挖苦	to speak sarcastically; to make cutting remarks; also pr. [wa1 ku5]
挖角	to poach (talent, personnel from competitors)
挖開	to dig into; to cut a mine into
挖鼻子	to pick one's nose
挨	to suffer; to endure; to pull through (hard times)
挨不上	to be irrelevant; to be superfluous
挨個	one by one; in turn
挨剋	to be rebuked; to suffer blows
挨呲	(coll.) to get scolded; to be told off
挨呲兒	erhua form of 挨呲[ai2 ci1]
挨宰	to get ripped off
挨家	from house to house, one by one
挨家挨戶	to go from house to house
挨延	to delay; to procrastinate; to play for time
挨戶	from house to house; from door to door
挨打	to take a beating; to come under attack
挨打受氣	to suffer bullying and beating (idiom)
挨打受罵	to suffer beatings and receive abuse (idiom)
挨批	to be criticized; to suffer blame
挨揍	to be beaten; to take a drubbing; buffeted
挨擠	to crowd together; to jostle; squeezed
挨擦	to press against; to nuzzle up to
挨整	to be the target of an attack
挨時間	to stall; to play for time
挨板子	to suffer beating; fig. to be severely criticized; to take a hammering
挨次	in sequence; in the proper order; one by one
挨罰	to be punished; to be fined
挨罵	to receive a scolding
挨肩兒	in rapid succession (of children, close in age); shoulder-to-shoulder
挨肩擦背	(idiom) to be crowded together
挨著	near
挨說	to get scolded
挨踢	information technology (IT) (loanword)
挨近	to approach; to get close to; to sneak up on
挨邊	to keep close to the edge; near the mark; close to (the true figure)
挨門	from door to door, one by one
挨頭子	to be criticized; to suffer blame
挨飢抵餓	to suffer from hunger
挨餓	to go hungry; to endure starvation; famished
挨餓受凍	(idiom) to go cold and hungry
挨鬥	to suffer censure; denounced
挪	to shift; to move
挪亞	Noah
挪亞方舟	Noah's ark
挪借	to borrow money for a short time
挪動	to move; to shift
挪威	Norway
挪用	to shift (funds)
挪窩兒	(dialect) to move (after being some time in the same place); to move (house)
挪開	to move (sth) aside; to step aside
挫	obstructed; to fail; to oppress
挫折	setback; reverse; check
挫折感	frustration
挫敗	to thwart; to foil (sb's plans); a setback; a failure; a defeat
挫瘡	acne; pustule
振	to shake; to flap; to vibrate
振作	to bestir oneself; to pull oneself together; to cheer up
振動	to vibrate; to shake; vibration
振奮	to stir oneself up; to raise one's spirits; to inspire
振安區	Zhen'an, a district of Dandong City 丹東市|丹东市[Dan1 dong1 Shi4], Liaoning
振幅	amplitude
振振有詞	to speak forcefully and with justice (idiom); to argue with the courage of one's convictions
振聾發聵	lit. so loud that even the deaf can hear (idiom); rousing even the apathetic
振臂一呼	(idiom) to issue a call for action; to raise one's hand and issue a rousing call
振興	to revive; to revitalize; to invigorate; to re-energize
振興區	Zhenxing, a district of Dandong City 丹東市|丹东市[Dan1 dong1 Shi4], Liaoning
振蕩	vibration; oscillation
振蕩器	oscillator
振頻	frequency of vibration
挲	used in 摩挲[mo2 suo1]
挶	structure for carrying dirt
挹	(literary) to scoop up; to ladle out
挹取	to ladle out; to scoop up
挹掬	to scoop up water with the hands
挹注	to shift resources into areas of need; to inject funds
挹酌	to pour out wine
挺	straight; erect; to stick out (a part of the body)
挺住	to stand firm
挺好	very good
挺屍	(lit.) to lie stiff like a corpse; (coll.) to sleep
挺拔	tall and straight
挺桿	tappet (machine part)
挺直	upright; erect; to straighten up (one's back etc); to hold erect
挺立	to stand erect; to stand upright
挺腰	to straighten one's back; to arch one's back
挺舉	clean and jerk (weightlifting technique)
挺身	to straighten one's back
挺身而出	to step forward bravely
挺進	progress; to advance
挼	(dialect) (of paper or cloth) wrinkled; crumpled
挽	to pull; to draw (a cart or a bow); to roll up
挽具	harness
挽力	pulling power (of draft animals)
挽回	to retrieve; to redeem
挽尊	(neologism) (slang) to salvage a bit of dignity (abbr. for 挽回尊嚴|挽回尊严[wan3 hui2 zun1 yan2])
挽幛	large elegiac scroll
挽救	to save; to remedy; to rescue
挽歌	a dirge; an elegy
挽留	to urge to stay; to detain
挽詞	an elegy; elegiac words
挽辭	an elegy; elegiac words
挽額	elegiac tablet
挾	(bound form) to clasp under the arm; (bound form) to coerce
挾制	to exploit sb's point of weakness to force them to do one's bidding
挾天子以令天下	(expr.) hold the feudal overlord and you control the whole country
挾天子以令諸侯	(expr.) hold the feudal overlord and you control his vassals
挾帶	to carry along; to carry on one's person; to carry secretly
挾怨	to hold a grudge
挾持	to seize (sb) by the arms; to hold under duress; to abduct
挾細拿粗	to provoke
捂	to enclose; to cover with the hand (one's eyes, nose or ears)
捂住	to cover (typically by placing a hand over sb's mouth, nose or ears etc)
捂臉	to cover one's face with one's hand(s); to facepalm
捃	gather; to sort
捅	to poke; to jab; to give (sb) a nudge; to prod; to disclose; to reveal
捅婁子	to make a mess of sth
捅破	to pierce; to poke through
捅馬蜂窩	(fig.) to stir up a hornet's nest
捆	a bunch; to tie together; bundle
捆紮	to bundle up with rope (e.g. firewood)
捆綁	to bind
捆縛	bondage
捉	to clutch; to grab; to capture
捉住	to catch; to grapple with; to hold onto
捉取	to capture
捉姦	to catch a couple in the act (adultery, illicit sexual relations)
捉對	to pair off (for a confrontation)
捉弄	to tease
捉急	humorous pronunciation of 著急|着急[zhao2 ji2]
捉拿	to arrest; to catch a criminal
捉拿歸案	to bring to justice
捉捕	to arrest; to seize; to capture
捉捕器	trap (for animals etc)
捉摸	to fathom; to make sense of; to grasp
捉摸不定	(idiom) unpredictable; elusive; hard to pin down
捉獲	to capture
捉襟見肘	lit. pulling on the lapels exposes the elbows (idiom)
捉迷藏	to play hide-and-seek
捋	to smooth or arrange sth using one's fingers; to stroke
捋胳膊	to push up one's sleeves
捋臂揎拳	lit. to push up one's sleeves and bare one's fists
捋虎鬚	lit. to stroke the tiger's whiskers; to do sth very daring
捋袖子	to push up one's sleeves
捌	eight (banker's anti-fraud numeral); split
捍	to ward off (a blow); to withstand; to defend
捍衛	to defend; to uphold; to safeguard
捍衛者	defender (usu. of sth abstract such as people's rights or a government policy)
捎	to bring sth to sb; to deliver
捎來	to bring sth to sb (news etc)
捎信	to take a letter; to send word
捏	to hold between the thumb and fingers; to pinch
捏一把冷汗	to break out into a cold sweat (idiom)
捏一把汗	to break out into a cold sweat (idiom)
捏估	to act as a go-between
捏合	to act as a go between
捏碎	to crush (sth) in one's hand
捏脊	form of therapeutic massage, mainly for children, in which a roll of skin is squeezed, working from the base of the spine to the neck (TCM)
捏脊治療	chiropractic (medicine)
捏造	to make up; to fabricate
捐	to relinquish; to abandon; to contribute; to donate
捐助	to donate; to offer (aid); contribution
捐募	to solicit contributions; to collect donations
捐卵	to donate eggs (from one's ovaries)
捐命	to lay down one's life
捐棄	to relinquish; to abandon
捐款	to donate money; to contribute funds; donation
捐款者	donor; benefactor; contributor (to charity)
捐物	to donate goods (to a relief effort); to contribute material
捐獻	to donate; to contribute
捐班	(old) to obtain an official position through financial contributions (instead of passing the imperial examination); a person who has done so
捐生	to sacrifice one's life
捐益表	tax benefits table
捐稅	tax; levy; duty; impost
捐精	to donate sperm
捐給	to donate
捐背	to die
捐血	to donate blood
捐血者	blood donor; also called 供血者
捐資	to contribute funds
捐贈	to contribute (as a gift); to donate; benefaction
捐贈盈餘	surplus from donation (accountancy)
捐贈者	donor; contributor
捐軀	to sacrifice one's life
捕	to catch; to seize; to capture
捕俘	to capture enemy personnel (for intelligence purposes)
捕快	bailiff responsible for catching criminals (in imperial China)
捕手	catcher
捕拿	to arrest; to capture; to catch
捕捉	to catch; to seize; to capture
捕撈	to fish for (aquatic animals and plants); to catch
捕殺	to hunt and kill (an animal or fish)
捕獲	to catch; to capture; to seize
捕獵	to catch (wild animals); to hunt
捕禽人	birdcatcher; fowler
捕虜岩	xenolith (geology)
捕蟲葉	insect-catching leaf
捕蠅草	Venus flytrap (Dionaea muscipula)
捕頭	head constable (in imperial China)
捕風捉影	lit. chasing the wind and clutching at shadows (idiom); fig. groundless accusations
捕食	to prey on; to catch and feed on; to hunt for food
捕食者	predator
捕魚	to catch fish; to fish
捕鯨	to whale; to hunt whales
捕鯨船	whaler; whaling vessel
捕鳥蛛	tarantula
捕鼠	to catch mice
捕鼠器	mousetrap
捗	to make progress
捘	push
捥	to bend the wrist
捧	to hold or offer with both hands; to sing the praises of
捧上天	to praise to the skies; to shower with excessive praise
捧到天上	to praise lavishly
捧哏	straight man (supporting role in comic dialogue 對口相聲|对口相声[dui4 kou3 xiang4 sheng1])
捧場	to show one's support for a performer or theatrical troupe etc by attending their show; to attend an event to cheer on the participants
捧托	to hold up with both hands
捧杯	to hold the winner's trophy; to win the championship
捧殺	to praise sb in a way that does them harm (e.g. by causing them to become complacent)
捧紅	to make popular; to make famous
捧腹	to split one's sides laughing; to roar with laughter; (lit.) to hold one's belly with both hands
捧腹大笑	(idiom) to split one's sides laughing
捧腹絕倒	to laugh until it hurts; to laugh heartily
捧臭腳	(coll.) to bootlick
捧花	(wedding) bouquet
捧角	to applaud and praise a favorite actor
捧角兒	erhua form of 捧角[peng3 jue2]
捧讀	(courteous) to read respectfully
捨	to give up; to abandon; to give alms
捨下	to abandon; to lay down
捨不得	to hate to do sth; to hate to part with; to begrudge
捨不得孩子套不住狼	one who is not prepared to risk his child will never catch the wolf (proverb)
捨命	to risk one's life
捨己	selfless; self-sacrifice (to help others); self-renunciation
捨己救人	to abandon self for others (idiom); to sacrifice oneself to help the people
捨己為人	to abandon self for others (idiom, from Analects); to sacrifice one's own interest for other people
捨己為公	to give up one's private interests for the public good (idiom); to behave altruistically
捨得	to be willing to part with sth
捨得一身剮，敢把皇帝拉下馬	one who does not fear the death of thousand cuts will dare to unhorse the emperor (proverb)
捨本逐末	to neglect the root and pursue the tip (idiom)
捨棄	to give up; to abandon; to abort
捨正從邪	to be corrupted by evil influences (idiom)
捨生取義	to give up life for righteousness (idiom, from Mencius)
捨生忘死	bravery with no thought of personal safety (idiom); risking life and limb
捨身	to give one's life
捨身求法	to abandon one's body in the search for Buddha's truth (idiom)
捨車保帥	rook sacrifice to save the king (in Chinese chess); fig. to protect a senior figure by blaming an underling
捩	tear; twist
捫	lay hands on; to cover
捫心無愧	lit. look into one's heart, no shame (idiom); with a clear conscience
捫心自問	to ask oneself honestly; to search in one's heart
捭	to spread out; to open
据	used in 拮据[jie2 ju1]
捯	(coll.) to reel in (string, yarn etc) by pulling hand over hand or by coiling
捯飭	(coll.) to doll up; to spruce up; to zhoosh up
捲	to roll up; to sweep up; to carry along; a roll
捲入	to be drawn into; to be involved in
捲層雲	cirrostratus (cloud); also written 卷層雲|卷层云[juan3 ceng2 yun2]
捲帶	tape
捲揚	a whirlwind
捲揚機	a capstan
捲曲	to curl (hair); to crimp; to roll up
捲積雲	cirrocumulus (cloud)
捲簾	roller shutter; a blind
捲簾門	roll-up door; roller shutter door
捲線器	fishing reel
捲腹	crunch (physical exercise)
捲舌元音	retroflex vowel (e.g. the final r of putonghua)
捲起	to roll up; to curl up; (of dust etc) to swirl up
捲逃	to bundle up valuables and abscond
捲邊	to hem; hem; to curl (at the edge)
捲鋪蓋	to roll up one's bedding; to pack one's things; (fig.) to quit
捲鋪蓋走人	to pack one's things and leave
捲門	rolling door; roll-up shutter (of a shopfront, garage, warehouse etc)
捲餅	rolled-up pastry; roll; turnover (patisserie)
捲髮	curly hair; to curl hair
捲髮器	hair curler
捲髮棒	curling iron
捲髮筒	hair roller
捲鬚	tendril
捶	to beat (with a stick or one's fist); to thump; to pound
捶子	drum stick; bass drum mallet
捶打	to beat; to pound; to thump
捶擊	to beat; to thump
捶背	to massage sb's back by pounding it lightly with one's fists
捶胸	to beat one's chest
捶胸頓足	(idiom) to beat one's chest and stamp one's feet (in sorrow, anguish etc)
捷	Czech; Czech Republic; abbr. for 捷克[Jie2 ke4]
捷克	Czech Republic
捷克人	Czech person
捷克共和國	Czech Republic
捷克斯洛伐克	Republic of Czechoslovakia (1918-1992)
捷克語	Czech (language)
捷兔	Hash House Harriers (international running club)
捷報	report of success; report of a victory
捷報頻傳	victory reports pour in (idiom); news of success in an endless stream
捷安特	Giant Manufacturing, Taiwanese bicycle manufacturer
捷徑	shortcut
捷泳	(Tw) (swimming) the crawl (front crawl stroke)
捷爾任斯克	Dzerzhinsk, Russian city
捷爾梅茲	Termez city in southeast Uzbekistan
捷語	Czech language
捷豹	Jaguar (car brand)
捷足先登	the quick-footed climb up first (idiom)
捷運	(Tw) mass rapid transit (MRT); subway
捷達	Jetta (car produced by Volkswagen)
捷達航空貨運	Jett8 Airlines Cargo (based in Singapore)
捺	to press down firmly; to suppress
捻	to twirl (in the fingers)
捻軍	Nian Army, leading a peasant rebellion against the Qing dynasty in Shandong, Henan, Jiangsu and Anhui 1851-1868, at the same time as the Taiping Rebellion further south
捼	to rub; to crumple
捽	to seize; Taiwan pr. [zu2]
掀	to lift (a lid); to rock; to convulse
掀動	to stir; to lift; to set sth in motion
掀天揭地	earth-shattering
掀掉	to remove; to tear off
掀湧	to seethe; to bubble up
掀翻	to turn sth over; to overturn
掀背車	hatchback
掀起	to lift; to raise (a lid etc)
掀開	to lift open; to tear open
掀風鼓浪	to raise a storm; to stir up trouble; to instigate
掀騰	to surge up; raging (billows)
掂	to weigh in the hand; to estimate
掂量	to weigh in the hand; to consider; to weigh up
掃	to sweep (with a brush or broom)
掃地	to sweep the floor
掃地僧	Sweeper Monk, nameless monk who maintains the library of Shaolin (from Jin Yong's novel "Demigods and Semidevils" 天龍八部|天龙八部[Tian1 long2 Ba1 Bu4])
掃地機器人	robot vacuum
掃堂腿	(martial arts) floor-sweeping kick (to trip one's opponent)
掃墓	to sweep a grave (and pay one's respects to the dead person)
掃射	to rake with machine gunfire; to strafe; to machine-gun down
掃尾	to complete the last stage of work; to round off
掃帚	broom
掃帚星	comet; person who brings bad luck; jinx
掃把	broom
掃把星	comet; person who brings bad luck; jinx
掃描	to scan
掃描儀	scanner (device)
掃描器	scanner
掃盲	to wipe out illiteracy
掃眉	to paint the eyebrows
掃碼	to scan a QR code or barcode
掃碼槍	handheld barcode scanner
掃羅	Saul (name); biblical king around 1000 BC
掃興	to spoil things; to dampen spirits; to feel deflated; to be dispirited
掃蕩	(military) to mop up; to crack down on; to eradicate
掃街	to sweep the streets; to canvas (for votes, sales etc)
掃視	to run one's eyes over; to sweep one's eyes over
掃貨	to go on a shopping spree; to buy in bulk
掃除	to clean; to clean up; to eliminate; to wipe out
掃除天下	(idiom) to re-establish order throughout the empire
掃除機	mechanical sweeper
掃雪車	snowplow
掃雷	Minesweeper (computer game)
掃雷艇	minesweeper
掃雷艦	minesweeper
掃黃	campaign against pornography
掃黃打非	to eradicate pornography and illegal publications
掃黃運動	campaign against pornography
掃黑	to crack down on illegal activities; to fight organized crime
掄	to swing (one's arms, a heavy object); to wave (a sword, one's fists)
掄元	to win the top award; to come first in the examination rankings
掇	to pick up; to collect; to gather up
掇刀區	Duodao, a district of Jingmen City 荊門市|荆门市[Jing1 men2 Shi4], Hubei
掇臀捧屁	to hold up buttocks and praise a fart (idiom); to use flatter to get what one wants
授	(bound form) to confer; to give; (bound form) to teach; to instruct
授之以魚不如授之以漁	give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime (idiom)
授乳	lactation; breast-feeding
授予	to award; to confer
授人以柄	to hand someone the swordhilt (idiom)
授人以魚不如授人以漁	give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime
授任	to appoint
授信	to extend credit (finance); credit
授勛	to award an honor
授受	to give and accept
授命	to give orders
授意	to inspire; to incite
授時	to broadcast a time signal
授業	(literary) to teach
授權	to authorize
授權令	warrant (law)
授獎	to award a prize
授粉	to pollinate
授精	insemination
授計	to confide a plan to sb
授課	to teach; to give lessons
授證	to deliver (a diploma, license etc); to qualify
授銜	rank of professor; academic title
掉	to fall; to drop; to lag behind
掉下	to drop down; to fall
掉以輕心	(idiom) to treat sth lightly; to lower one's guard
掉價	drop in price; devalued; to have one's status lowered
掉向	to turn; to adjust one's direction; to lose one's bearings
掉換	to swap; to replace; to exchange
掉擧	restlessness (Buddhism)
掉書袋	lit. to wave around one's bookbag (idiom)
掉期	swap (finance)
掉淚	to shed tears
掉漆	to peel off (paint); (fig.) to be exposed; to lose face (Tw)
掉球	(sports) to fumble the ball
掉秤	to lose weight (of cattle)
掉粉	to lose fans
掉線	to get disconnected (from the Internet)
掉膘	to lose weight (of cattle)
掉色	to lose color; to fade; also pr. [diao4 shai3]
掉落	to fall down
掉轉	to turn around
掉過	to swap places
掉鏈子	to have one's bicycle chain come off
掉隊	to fall behind; to drop out
掉頭	to turn one's head; to turn round; to turn about
掉頭就走	to turn on one's heels; to walk away abruptly
掉點兒	drip of rain
掊	take up in both hands
掌	palm of the hand; sole of the foot; paw
掌上壓	(HK, Malaysia) push-up; press-up (exercise)
掌上明珠	lit. a pearl in the palm (idiom); fig. beloved person (esp. daughter)
掌上電腦	handheld computer; PDA (personal digital assistant); Pocket PC
掌勺	to be in charge of the cooking; to be the chef; head cook
掌嘴	to slap
掌子面	face (mining)
掌廚	to prepare meals; chef
掌心	hollow of the palm
掌控	to control; in control of
掌握	to grasp (often fig.); to control
掌摑	to slap (with the palm of the hand)
掌擊	to slap
掌故	anecdote; tales (esp. about a historical figure)
掌機	handheld game console
掌櫃	shopkeeper
掌權	to wield (political etc) power; be in power
掌燈	to hold a lamp; to light a lamp
掌璽大臣	chancellor (rank in various European states); grand chancellor
掌璽官	chancellor (rank in various European states)
掌相	palmistry; features of a palm (in palmistry)
掌眼	to appraise (an antique, a cultural relic, jewelry etc)
掌管	in charge of; to control
掌聲	applause
掌聲雷動	thunderous applause (idiom)
掌舵	to steer (a ship)
掌門	sect leader (often in wuxia 武俠|武侠[wu3 xia2] fiction)
掌門人	(wuxia) sect leader; (fig.) person in charge; head; leader; proprietor
掌骨	metacarpal bone (long bones in the hand and feet)
掍	edging (of a dress etc)
掎	drag
掏	to fish out (from pocket); to scoop
掏出	to fish out; to take out (from a pocket, bag etc)
掏包	to pick pockets
掏心掏肺	to be totally devoted (to a person)
掏空	to hollow out; to empty out; to use up
掏耳	to remove earwax with an ear pick
掏耳勺	ear pick
掏腰包	to dip into one's pocket; to pay out of pocket; to foot the bill
掏錢	to pay; to spend money; to fork out
掐	to pick (flowers); to pinch; to nip
掐斷	to nip off (with fingernails etc); (fig.) to cut off (supply etc)
掐架	(of dogs, roosters etc) to fight; to tussle
掐死	to throttle; to choke to death
掐算	to count with one's fingers; on the spot calculation
掐脖子	to seize by the throat
掐錶	to use a stopwatch
排	to arrange in order; to line up
排他	exclusive; excluding
排他性	exclusiveness; exclusivity
排便	to defecate
排偶	parallel and antithesis (paired sentences as rhetoric device)
排入	to discharge into
排出	to discharge
排列	to arrange in order; (math.) permutation
排印	typesetting and printing
排卵	to ovulate
排名	to rank (1st, 2nd etc); ranking
排名榜	ranking; ordered list; top 20
排名表	league table; roll of honor
排場	ostentation; a show of extravagance; grand style
排外	xenophobic; anti-foreigner
排定	to schedule
排客	paid queuer; person paid to stand in line for another
排射	a barrage of fire; a salvo
排尿	to urinate
排屋	row house; townhouse; terrace house
排山倒海	lit. to topple the mountains and overturn the seas (idiom); earth-shattering
排布	to arrange; to lay out; (esp.) to set up (a trap)
排序	to sort; to arrange in order
排律	long poem in lüshi form 律詩|律诗
排悶	to divert oneself from melancholy
排憂解難	to resolve a difficult situation and leave worries behind (idiom)
排插	power strip
排擋	gear (of car etc)
排擠	to crowd out; to push aside; to supplant
排放	to arrange in order
排斥	to reject; to exclude; to eliminate
排查	to inspect; to run through a checklist; to take stock
排槍	volley of rifle fire; salvo
排檔	(coll.) row of vendor stalls; street stall area
排檢	to arrange for ease of search; to catalogue for retrieval
排母	(electronics) pin socket; female header
排毒	to expel poison (from the system); to detox
排比	parallelism (rhetoric); to arrange things alongside each other
排氣	to ventilate
排氣孔	an air vent; a ventilation shaft
排氣扇	exhaust fan
排氣管	exhaust pipe
排水	to drain
排水口	plughole; drainage hole
排水孔	plughole; drainage hole
排水渠	drainage
排水溝	gutter
排水管	drainpipe; waste pipe
排水量	displacement
排污	to drain sewage
排污管	sewer
排泄	to drain (factory waste etc); to excrete (urine, sweat etc)
排泄物	excreta; waste matter (feces, urine etc)
排洩系統	drainage system; excretory system
排洪	to drain flood-water
排海	to drain (wastewater) into the sea
排滿	(historical) anti-Manchu; to oppose Manchu rule
排演	to rehearse (a performance)
排澇	to drain flooded fields
排瀉	to excrete (urine, sweat etc)
排灣族	Paiwan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
排炮	to fire a salvo; broadside; cannonade
排煙	to discharge smoke
排燈節	Diwali (Hindu festival)
排片	(of a cinema) to schedule movie screenings
排版	typesetting
排猶	to eliminate Jews; antisemitism
排猶主義	antisemitism
排班	to arrange (shifts, runs, classes etc) in order
排球	volleyball
排空	to drain out; to empty; to discharge (waste gas) into the air
排笙	reed-pipe wind instrument with a keyboard
排簫	panpipes
排精	(medicine) to ejaculate
排練	to rehearse; rehearsal
排翅	whole-piece shark's fin
排舞	a dance in formation; choreographed dance; line dance
排華	to discriminate against Chinese people
排華法案	Chinese Exclusion Act, a US law restricting Chinese immigration from 1882-1943
排行	to rank; ranking; seniority (among siblings)
排行榜	the charts (of best-sellers); table of ranking
排解	to mediate; to reconcile; to make peace
排走	to drain away; to vent out
排起長隊	to form a long line (i.e. of people waiting)
排遣	to divert oneself from (loneliness, grief etc)
排遺	(biology) to egest; egesta (feces, scat etc)
排量	discharge volume; engine capacity
排針	(electronics) pin header; male header
排錯	troubleshooting; debugging; to debug
排長	platoon leader; sergeant
排除	to eliminate; to remove; to exclude
排除萬難	to overcome all obstacles; to overcome countless difficulties
排隊	to line up
排難解紛	to remove perils and solve disputes (idiom); to reconcile differences
排雷	(military) to clear landmines
排面	a row of things facing oneself (esp. a row of products on a shelf facing customers in a store)
排頭兵	lit. frontline troops; leader; trailblazer
排風口	exhaust vent
排骨	pork chop; pork cutlet; spare ribs
排骨精	(jocular) anorexic girl; a bag of bones
掔	lead along; substantial
掖	to tuck (into a pocket); to hide; to conceal
掖咕	to toss aside; to misplace
掖垣	sidewalls of a palace
掖庭	Lateral Courts in the imperial palace (housing concubines and administrative offices)
掖掖蓋蓋	stealthily; clandestinely
掖門	small side door of a palace
掗	attach; brandish; hold
掘	to dig
掘出	to exhume; to unearth; to dig out
掘土機	excavator
掘墓工人	grave digger
掘墓鞭屍	to exhume a body for public flogging (idiom)
掘客	Digg (social news website)
掙	to struggle to get free; to strive to acquire; to make (money)
掙得	to earn (income); to make (money)
掙扎	to struggle
掙脫	to throw off; to struggle free of; Taiwan pr. [zheng1 tuo1]
掙錢	to make money
掛	to hang; to suspend (from a hook etc); to hang up (the phone)
掛一漏萬	to mention some but omit many others (idiom)
掛住	to get caught (entangled); to catch (on sth)
掛名	to attach sb's name to (a role); to go by the title of
掛圖	wall chart
掛在嘴上	to pay lip service to; to keep mentioning (without doing anything)
掛在嘴邊	to keep saying (sth) over and over
掛墜盒	locket
掛失	to report the loss of something
掛好	to hang up properly (telephone, picture, clothes etc)
掛帥	to take command; to be in command
掛彩	to decorate for festive occasions; to be wounded in action
掛心	to worry; to be on one's mind
掛念	to feel anxious about; to have (sth) weighing on one's mind
掛急診	to register as an emergency case at a hospital
掛慮	to worry about
掛懷	concerned; troubled; having sth on one's mind
掛擋	to put into gear; to engage the gear; gear change
掛斷	to hang up (a phone)
掛旗	vertical banner (for display at exhibitions, advertising hung from poles in the street etc)
掛曆	wall calendar
掛果	(of a tree) to bear fruit
掛機	to hang up (a phone)
掛毯	tapestry
掛水	to put sb on an intravenous drip
掛牌	lit. to hang up a plate; to open up for business
掛礙	worry
掛科	to fail (a course)
掛線	to hang up the phone
掛繩	lanyard
掛羊頭賣狗肉	lit. to hang a sheep's head while selling dog meat (idiom)
掛職	temporary assignment to a Chinese government or CCP post
掛花	to be wounded; (of plants) to bloom
掛蘭	spider plant (Chlorophytum comosum)
掛號	to register (at a hospital etc); to send by registered mail
掛號信	registered letter
掛號證	register card
掛褡	(of a monk) to take residence at a temple
掛起	to hang up (a picture etc); to hoist up (a flag)
掛車	trailer
掛軸	hanging scroll (calligraphy or painting)
掛載	(computing) to mount
掛鉤	to couple; to link; to hook together
掛鎖	padlock
掛鐘	wall clock
掛鐮	to complete the year's harvest
掛靠	to be affiliated with; to operate under the wing of; affiliation
掛靴	(sports) to hang up one's boots; to retire
掛飾	hanging decoration
掛馬	(computing) to infect with a Trojan horse
掛麵	pasta; noodles
掛齒	to mention (e.g. "don't mention it")
掞	easy; quiet
掟	(HK dialect) to throw; to toss
掠	to take over by force; to rob; to plunder
掠取	to plunder; to pillage; to loot
掠奪	to plunder; to rob
掠奪者	robber; plunderer; predator
掠美	to claim credit due to others
掠賣	to press-gang sb and sell into slavery
掠過	to flit across; to sweep past; to glance (strike at an angle)
掠食	to prey on; predation; predatory
採	to pick; to pluck; to collect
採伐	to fell; to cut
採光	to get natural light (e.g. through a window)
採出	to extract; to mine
採取	to adopt or carry out (measures, policies, course of action); to take
採取行動	to take action; to adopt policies; to move on some issue
採場	slope
採掘	to excavate; to extract (ore)
採摘	to pluck; to pick
採擇	to choose and use; to adopt (a decision)
採收	to harvest
採收率	recovery ratio
採景	to choose a location; to frame a shot (for filming, photography etc)
採暖	heating
採果	fruit picking
採棉機	cotton picker
採樣	sampling
採樣率	sampling rate
採油	oil extraction; oil recovery
採煤	coal mining; coal extraction; coal cutting
採煤工作面	(mining) coalface
採珠	to dive for pearls
採用	to adopt; to employ; to use
採石場	stone pit; quarry
採砂場	sandpit; sand quarry
採礦	mining
採礦業	mining
採種	seed collecting
採納	to accept; to adopt
採耳	to remove earwax with an ear pick
採脂	tree tapping
採花	to pick flowers; to enter houses at night in order to rape women
採花大盜	notorious rapist; serial rapist
採花賊	rapist
採茶	to pick tea leaves
採行	to adopt (a system, policy, strategy etc)
採製	to gather and process (herbs etc)
採訪	to interview; to gather news; to hunt for and collect
採訪記者	reporter; journalist
採證	to collect evidence
採買	to purchase; to buy; to do one's shopping; purchasing agent; buyer
採購	to procure (for an enterprise etc); to purchase
採購員	buyer; purchasing agent
採購商	buyer
採辦	to buy on a considerable scale; to purchase; to procure
採錄	collect and record
採集	to gather; to collect; to harvest
採風	to collect local cultural material (recording folk songs, taking photos etc)
採食	to forage; to gather for eating; to pick and eat
探	to explore; to search out; to scout
探井	(mining) test pit; exploratory shaft; test well
探傷	to inspect metal for flaws (using X-ray or ultrasound etc)
探勘	to explore; to survey; to prospect (for oil etc)
探口氣	to sound out opinions
探口風	to sound out opinions
探員	detective; investigator; agent
探問	to inquire into; to ask after
探囊取物	to feel in one's pocket and take sth (idiom); as easy as pie
探奇	to seek unusual scenery or places
探子	intelligence gatherer; spy; detective
探家	to make a trip home
探察	to investigate; to observe; to scout; to seek out and examine; to explore
探尋	to search; to seek; to explore
探尺	dipstick; measuring rod
探幽發微	to probe deeply and uncover minute details
探底	(of stock prices, etc) to slump; to dip
探店	to try out a restaurant and film a video to share on the Internet
探戈	tango (dance) (loanword)
探摸	to feel for sth; to grope
探明	to ascertain; to verify
探月	lunar exploration
探望	to visit; to call on sb; to look around
探查	to examine; to probe; to scout out
探案	(of a detective) to investigate a case
探求	to seek; to pursue; to investigate
探測	to probe; to survey
探測器	detector; probe
探測字	(cognitive psychology) probe letter
探照燈	searchlight
探班	to check on sb at his workplace
探病	to visit a sick person or patient
探監	to visit a prisoner (usu. a relative or friend)
探看	to visit; to go to see what's going on
探知	to find out; to ascertain; to get an idea of
探礦	to prospect; to dig for coal or minerals
探礦者	prospector; person exploring for minerals
探祕	to explore a mystery; to probe the unknown
探究	to investigate; to delve; to probe
探究式	exploratory
探索	to explore; to probe
探索性	exploratory
探聽	to make inquiries; to try to find out; to pry
探花	candidate who came third in the Hanlin examination (cf. 狀元|状元[zhuang4 yuan2])
探視	to visit (a patient, prisoner etc); to look inquiringly
探視權	visitation rights (law)
探親	to go home to visit one's family
探討	to investigate; to probe
探訪	to seek by inquiry or search; to call on; to visit
探詢	to inquire into; to ask after
探路	to find a path
探路者	Pathfinder, NASA spacecraft sent to Mars in 1977
探身	to lean forward; to lean out (of a window, door etc)
探身子	to bend forward; to lean out
探針	probe
探長	(police) detective
探險	to explore; to go on an expedition; adventure
探險家	explorer
探險者	explorer; adventurer
探雷	to detect mines; mine detection
探雷人員	mine detector (employee)
探頭	to stick one's head out (from behind sth); to pop one's head in (through a window etc)
探頭探腦	to stick one's head out and look around (idiom)
探風	to make inquiries about sb or sth; to fish for information
探馬	mounted scout (arch.)
探驪得珠	to pluck a pearl from the black dragon (idiom, from Zhuangzi); fig. to pick out the salient points (from a tangled situation)
掣	to pull; to draw; to pull back
掣肘	to hold sb back by the elbow; to impede; to hinder
掣電	to flash; a flash (literary)
掤	to ward off (in tai chi)
接	to receive; to answer (the phone); to meet or welcome sb
接上	to connect (a cable etc); to hook up (a device)
接下	to take on (a responsibility)
接下來	to accept; to take; next
接二連三	(idiom) one after another; in quick succession
接人	to meet a person
接任	to take over (as minister, manager etc)
接住	to catch (sth thrown etc); to receive (sth given); to accept
接入	to access (a network); to insert (a plug) into (a socket)
接入點	(computer networking) access point
接到	to receive (letter etc)
接力	relay
接力棒	relay baton; (fig.) responsibilities (passed over to one's successor)
接力賽	relay race
接力賽跑	relay race
接受	to accept (a suggestion, punishment, bribe etc); to acquiesce
接受者	recipient; person receiving sth
接口	interface; port; connector
接合	to connect; to join; to assemble
接合菌綱	Zygomycetes
接吻	to kiss
接單	to take a customer's order; (of a taxi driver) to accept a booking
接地	earth (electric connection); to earth
接地氣	in touch with the common people; down-to-earth
接壤	to border on
接客	to receive guests; to receive patrons (of prostitutes)
接尾詞	suffix (in Japanese and Korean grammar)
接引	to greet and usher in (guests, newcomers etc)
接待	to receive; to entertain; to host (guests, visitors or clients)
接待員	receptionist
接待室	reception room
接應	to provide support; to come to the rescue
接戰	to engage in battle
接戲	to accept an acting role
接手	to take over (duties etc); catcher (baseball etc)
接掌	to take over; to take control
接收	reception (of transmitted signal); to receive; to accept
接收器	receiver
接收機	receiver; TV or radio receiver
接替	to replace; to take over (a position or post)
接枝	(tree) graft
接案	to be informed of a case; to take a case
接棒	to take the baton in a relay race
接棒人	successor
接機	to meet (or pick up) sb arriving by plane
接泊車	shuttle bus
接活	to take on a piece of work; to pick up some freelance work
接洽	to discuss a matter with sb; to get in touch with; to arrange
接濟	to give material assistance to
接獲	to receive (a call, report etc)
接班	to take over (from those working the previous shift)
接班人	successor
接球	to receive a served ball (volleyball, tennis etc)
接生	to deliver (a newborn child)
接生婆	midwife
接盤	(of an entrepreneur) to buy up a struggling business
接種	to be vaccinated; to be inoculated
接穗	scion (branch or bud that is grafted onto rootstock)
接管	to take over; to assume control
接納	to admit or welcome (into a group); to accept (sb or sth)
接線	wiring; to connect a wire
接線員	switchboard operator
接線板	power strip
接線生	switchboard operator; telephone operator
接線盒	junction box (elec.)
接縫	seam; join; juncture
接續	to follow; to continue
接聽	to answer the phone
接茬	(coll.) to respond; to offer a comment; to jump into the conversation
接著	to catch and hold on; to continue; to go on to do sth
接見	to receive sb; to grant an interview
接觸	to touch; to contact; access
接觸不良	loose or defective contact (elec.)
接觸器	contactor
接警	(of police, fire brigade etc) to receive a report of an incident
接踵	to follow on sb's heels
接踵而來	to come one after the other
接軌	railtrack connection; to integrate into sth; to dock
接近	to approach; to get close to
接送	to pick up and drop off; to ferry back and forth
接通	to connect; to put through
接通費	connection charge
接連	on end; in a row; in succession
接連不斷	(idiom) in unbroken succession; continuous
接過	to take (sth proffered)
接頭	connector; joint; coupling; (coll.) to contact; to get in touch with
接風	to hold a welcoming dinner or reception
接駁	to access; to transfer passengers between two railway lines
接駁車	shuttle bus ferrying passengers between train stations on two different rail lines
接骨	(medicine) to set a broken bone
接骨木	elder or elderberry (genus Sambucus)
接髮	hair extensions
接點	(electrical) contact
接龍	to build up a sequence
控	to control; to accuse; to charge
控件	(computing) a control (e.g. button, text box etc)
控制	to control
控制室	control room
控制桿	control lever; joystick
控制棒	control rods
控制權	control (as in "to win control")
控制狂	control freak
控制臺	control desk; console
控制論	cybernetics
控告	to accuse; to charge; to indict
控方	(law) the prosecution
控球後衛	(basketball) point guard
控管	to control (quality etc); to manage (resources etc)
控罪	criminal charge; accusation
控股	to own a controlling number of shares in a company
控股公司	holding company
控衛	(basketball) point guard (abbr. for 控球後衛|控球后卫[kong4 qiu2 hou4 wei4])
控規	regulatory plan
控訴	to accuse; to denounce; to make a complaint against
控評	to manipulate the comments section on social media
控辯	the prosecution and the defense (law)
控辯交易	plea bargaining; plea agreement
控辯協議	plea bargain (law)
推	to push; to cut; to refuse
推三阻四	to use all sorts of excuses
推介	to recommend
推介會	promotional seminar; promotional event
推估	to estimate
推來推去	(idiom) to rudely push and pull others
推倒	to push over; to overthrow
推出	to push out; to release; to launch
推力	driving force; impetus; thrust (of a boat or airplane engine); repelling force
推助	to bolster; to give a boost to (the economy etc)
推動	to push (e.g. for acceptance of a plan); to promote; to give impetus to
推動力	driving force
推升	to cause (prices etc) to rise
推卸	to avoid (esp. responsibility); to shift (the blame); to pass the buck
推卻	to repel; to decline
推及	to spread; to extend
推友	Twitter user
推問	to interrogate
推土機	bulldozer
推子	hair clippers
推宕	to postpone; to delay; to put sth off
推官	prefectural judge (in imperial China)
推定	to infer; to consider and come to a judgment; to elect
推尊	to esteem; to revere; to think highly of sb
推尋	to examine; to investigate
推導	derivation; to deduce
推展	to propagate; to popularize
推崇	to esteem; to think highly of; to accord importance to
推度	to infer; to guess
推廣	to extend; to spread; to popularize
推延	to procrastinate
推後	to push back (progress, the times etc)
推心	to treat sincerely; to confide in
推心置腹	to give one's bare heart into sb else's keeping (idiom); sb has one's absolute confidence
推恩	to extend kindness
推想	to reckon; to infer; to imagine
推戴	to endorse (sb for leader)
推手	promoter; advocate; driving force
推托	to make excuses; to give an excuse (for not doing something)
推拉門	sliding door
推拿	tui na (form of Chinese manual therapy)
推挽	to push and pull; to move sth forward by shoving and pulling
推推搡搡	to push and shove
推搡	to shove; to jostle
推搪	to offer excuses (colloquial); to stall
推故	to find a pretext for refusing
推敲	to think over
推文	a post on X (formerly Twitter)
推斥	(physics) to repulse; repulsion
推斥力	(physics) repulsive force
推斷	to infer; to deduce; to predict
推服	to esteem; to admire
推本溯源	to go back to the source
推杯換盞	(idiom) to drink together in a convivial atmosphere
推桿	push rod or tappet (mechanics); putter (golf); to putt (golf)
推求	to inquire; to ascertain
推油	oil massage
推波助瀾	to push the wave and add to the billows (idiom); to add momentum
推測	speculation; to conjecture; to surmise
推溯	to trace back to
推演	to deduce; to infer; to derive
推特	Twitter (microblogging service)
推理	reasoning; inference; to infer
推理小說	murder mystery (novel); whodunit
推甄	to recommend a student for admission to a higher-level school
推知	to infer
推移	(of time) to elapse; to pass; (of a situation) to develop; to evolve
推究	to study; to examine; to probe
推算	to calculate; to reckon; to extrapolate (in calculation)
推索	to inquire into; to ascertain
推翻	to overthrow
推而廣之	to apply sth more broadly; by logical extension; and, by extension,
推脫	to evade; to shirk
推舉	to nominate as a worthy candidate; to recommend; to elect; to choose
推薦	to recommend
推薦信	recommendation letter
推薦書	recommendation letter
推行	to implement; to carry out; to introduce (a policy, system, reform etc)
推衍	to deduce; to infer; an implication
推計	to estimate; to deduce (by calculation)
推許	to esteem; to commend
推詳	to study in detail
推說	to plead; to claim as an excuse
推諉	to shirk responsibility; to blame others; to pass the buck
推論	to infer; inference; corollary
推賢讓能	to cede to the virtuous and yield to the talented (idiom)
推車	cart; trolley; to push a cart
推車發動	to push-start (a car)
推辭	to decline (an appointment, invitation etc)
推送	(computing) server push
推進	to impel; to carry forward; to push on
推進劑	propellant; rocket fuel
推進器	propeller; propulsion unit; thruster
推進艙	propulsion module; (astronautics) service module
推遲	to postpone; to put off; to defer
推選	to elect; to choose
推重	to esteem; to think highly of; to accord importance to
推重比	thrust-to-weight ratio
推銷	to market; to sell
推銷員	sales representative; salesperson
推開	to push open (a gate etc); to push away; to reject
推闡	to elucidate; to study and expound
推陳佈新	to push out the old and bring in the new (idiom); to innovate
推陳出新	to push out the old and bring in the new (idiom); to innovate
推頭	to clip hair; to have a haircut
掩	to cover up; to conceal; to close (a door, book etc)
掩人耳目	to fool people (idiom); to pull the wool over people's eyes
掩卷	(literary) to close the book (after a reading session)
掩埋	to bury
掩映	hidden from view; alternately hidden and visible
掩樣法	illusion
掩殺	to make a surprise attack; to pounce on (an enemy)
掩碼	(computing) mask
掩耳	to refuse to listen
掩耳盜鈴	lit. to cover one's ears whilst stealing a bell; to deceive oneself
掩蓋	to conceal; to hide behind; to cover up
掩蔽	shelter; screen; cover; protection
掩藏	hidden; covered; concealed
掩護	to screen; to shield; to cover
掩面而泣	to bury one's head in one's hands and weep (idiom)
掩飾	to cover up; to conceal; to mask
掩體	bunker (military)
措	to handle; to manage; to put in order
措勤縣	Coqên, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
措大	worthless scholar; useless wretch
措意	to pay attention to
措手	to deal with; to manage; to proceed
措手不及	no time to deal with it (idiom); caught unprepared
措施	measure; step
措置	to handle; to arrange
措置裕如	to handle easily (idiom); effortless
措美縣	Comai, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
措舉	move; measure; step (to some end)
措詞	wording; way of expressing something; turn of phrase
措辦	to plan; to administer
措辭	wording; way of expressing something; turn of phrase
措辭強硬	strongly-worded
掫	beat the night watches; grasp
掬	to hold in one's hands; classifier for a double handful
掬水	to scoop up water
掬誠	wholeheartedly; sincerely
掬飲	to drink water by scooping it up with both hands
掭	to smooth (a brush) against the inkstone (after dipping it in ink)
掮	to carry on the shoulder
掮客	broker; agent
掯	to push down; to make things difficult; to take by force
掰	to break off or break open sth with one's hands
掰彎	to bend; (slang) to turn a straight person gay
掰手腕	arm wrestling
掰扯	to debate; to dispute; to wrangle (dialect)
掰掰	bye-bye (loanword) (Tw)
掰直	to straighten; (slang) to turn a gay person straight
掰腕子	arm wrestling
掰開	to pull apart; to pry open with the hands
掰開揉碎	lit. to pull apart and knead to a pulp
掾	official
揀	to choose; to pick; to sort out
揀佛燒香	to choose which Buddha to burn incense to (idiom); fig. to curry favor from the right person
揀信室	mail sorting office
揀擇	(literary) to select; to choose
揀起	to pick up
揀選	to select; to sort out
揀飲擇食	to choose one's food carefully; to be picky
揃	shear
揄	to draw out; to let hanging
揄揚	to praise; to extol; to publicize
揄袂	to walk with the hands in one's sleeves
揅	(literary) variant of 研[yan2]
揆	consider; estimate
揉	to knead; to massage; to rub
揉制	to knead (leather)
揉合	to blend; to merge; to mix together
揉和	to knead (clay)
揉搓	to rub; to torment; to torture
揉碎	to crush; to crumble into pieces
揉磨	to torment; to torture
揌	to shake
揍	to hit; to beat (sb); (coll.) to smash (sth)
揍人	to hit sb; to beat sb up
揍扁	to beat (sb) up; to hit
揍死	to beat to death
揎	to roll up one's sleeves; to slap with the palm
描	to depict; to trace (a drawing); to copy
描圖	to trace
描寫	to describe; to depict; to portray; depiction; portrayal
描摹	to trace over; to take a copy (of a calligraphy, a painting etc)
描畫	to draw; to describe
描紅	to trace over red characters (as a method of learning to write)
描繪	to describe; to depict; to portray
描述	to describe; description
描金	to outline in gold
提	to carry (hanging down from the hand); to lift; to put forward
提交	to submit (a report etc); to refer (a problem) to sb
提任	to promote and appoint
提供	to offer; to supply; to provide
提供商	provider (company)
提供者	supplier; provider
提倡	to promote; to advocate
提倡者	proponent; advocate; pioneer
提價	to raise the price
提克里特	Tikrit
提出	to raise (an issue); to propose; to put forward
提列	to make provision (against a loss); a bookkeeping entry
提到	to mention; to raise (a subject); to refer to
提前	to shift to an earlier date; to do sth ahead of time; in advance
提前投票	early vote
提包	handbag; bag; valise
提升	to promote (to a higher-ranking position); to lift; to hoist
提及	to mention; to raise (a subject); to bring to sb's attention
提取	to withdraw (money); to collect (left luggage); to extract
提名	to nominate
提告	(law) to sue
提告人	plaintiff
提味	to improve taste; to make sth palatable
提問	to question; to quiz; to grill
提單	bill of lading
提喻法	synecdoche
提壺蘆	unidentified type of bird referred to in ancient Chinese poems
提多	Titus (1st century AD), Christian missionary, disciple of St. Paul
提多書	Epistle of St Paul to Titus
提姆·羅賓斯	Tim Robbins (1958-), American actor, director, activist and musician
提婚	to propose marriage
提子	to capture stones (in Go)
提字器	teleprompter
提學御史	superintendent of education (formal title)
提審	to commit sb for trial; to bring sb for interrogation
提布盧斯	Tibullus (55 BC-19 BC), Latin poet
提幹	to rise through the ranks (as a party cadre)
提心	worry
提心吊膽	(idiom) nervous; fearful; on edge
提成	to take a percentage (from a sum of money); a commission; a cut
提手	a handle
提拉米蘇	(loanword) tiramisu
提拔	to promote to a higher job; to select for promotion
提挈	to hold by the hand; fig. to nurture; to foster
提振	to boost; to stimulate
提掖	to recommend sb for a promotion; to guide and support sb
提提	calm; poised
提摩太	Timothy
提摩太前書	First epistle of St Paul to Timothy
提摩太後書	Second Epistle of St Paul to Timothy
提摩西草	(loanword) Timothy grass
提攜	to lead by the hand; to guide; to support
提早	ahead of schedule; sooner than planned
提案	proposal; draft resolution; motion (to be debated)
提案人	proposer
提梁	handle in the shape of a hoop
提權	(computing) to escalate privileges
提款	to withdraw money; to take money out of the bank
提款卡	debit card; ATM card
提款機	bank autoteller; ATM
提水工程	project to raise low-lying water for irrigation purposes
提法	wording (of a proposal); formulation; viewpoint (on an issue)
提溜	(coll.) to carry; Taiwan pr. [ti2 liu5]
提煉	to extract (ore, minerals etc); to refine; to purify
提燈	a portable lamp
提爾	Tyre (Lebanon)
提爾市	Tyre (Lebanon)
提現	to withdraw funds
提琴	instrument of the violin family (violin, viola, cello or double bass)
提留	to withdraw (money) and retain it
提盒	box with tiered compartments and a handle; lunch box
提督	the local commander; provincial governor (in Qing and Ming times)
提示	to point out; to remind (sb of sth); to suggest
提示付款	to present (a bill of exchange etc) for payment
提示承兌	to present (a draft) for acceptance (commerce)
提示音	beep
提神	to freshen up; to be cautious or vigilant; to watch out
提神劑	stimulant; psychostimulant; agrypnotic
提神醒腦	to refresh and clear the mind (idiom); invigorating; bracing
提稱語	epistolary formula used at the head of a letter
提筆	to take up one's pen; to start to write
提筆忘字	to have difficulty remembering how to write Chinese characters
提箱	a suitcase; a traveling-bag
提籃	a basket
提籃兒	a basket
提純	to purify
提級	a step up; to rise to the next level
提綱	outline; synopsis; notes
提綱挈領	to concentrate on the main points (idiom); to bring out the essentials
提線木偶	marionette
提花	Jacquard weave (machine weaving leaving protruding pattern)
提薪	to receive a raise in salary
提製	to refine; to extract
提要	summary; abstract
提親	to propose marriage
提親事	to propose marriage
提訊	to bring sb to trial
提詞	to prompt (an actor or reciter)
提詞器	teleprompter
提調	to supervise (troops); to appoint (officers); to select and assign
提請	to propose
提議	to propose; to suggest; proposal; suggestion
提貨	to accept delivery of goods; to pick up goods
提貨單	bill of lading
提賠	to make a claim (for damages etc)
提起	to mention; to bring up; (lit. and fig.) to lift; to raise
提起公訴	to prosecute sb
提起精神	to raise one's spirits; to take courage
提踵	to lift one's heels; to stand on tiptoe; (sports) to do a calf raise
提車	to pick up a car (newly purchased car from a dealership, repaired vehicle from a repair shop, rental car at the airport etc)
提述	to refer to
提速	to increase the specified cruising speed; to pick up speed
提醒	to remind; to call attention to; to warn of
提醒物	reminder
提防	to guard against; to be vigilant; watch you don't (slip)
提領	to withdraw (cash from an ATM)
提頭兒	to give a lead
提高	to raise; to increase; to improve
插	to insert; stick in; pierce
插上	to plug into; to insert; to stick in
插不上手	to be unable to intervene
插件	plug-in (software or hardware); to plug in a component
插值	interpolation (math.)
插入	to insert; to stick in; to plug in
插入因子	(genetics) insertion element
插入語	interjection
插卡式	(of a device, e.g. public telephone, ticket inspection machine) designed to have a card or ticket inserted
插口	socket (for an electric plug); to interrupt (sb speaking); to butt in
插喉	(coll.) to intubate
插嘴	to interrupt (sb talking); to butt in; to cut into a conversation
插圖	illustration
插孔	jack; socket
插座	socket; outlet
插座板	power strip
插手	to get involved in; to meddle; interference
插排	power strip
插播	to interrupt (a radio or TV program) with a commercial insert, breaking news etc
插播廣告	slot advertisement; interstitial ad; splash ad
插曲	music played during a movie, play etc; incidental music
插槽	slot
插班	to join a class partway through the course
插畫	illustration
插眼	to poke in the eye
插科打諢	to include impromptu comic material in opera performance (idiom); to jest
插秧	to transplant rice seedlings
插管	(medicine) to intubate; intubation; (endotracheal) tube
插線板	power strip; powerboard (with multiple electrical sockets)
插翅難飛	lit. even given wings, you couldn't fly (idiom); fig. impossible to escape
插腳	to shove in; to edge in
插花	flower arranging; ikebana
插補	interpolation (math.)
插話	to interrupt (sb speaking); interruption; digression
插足	to squeeze in; to step in; to take part
插進	to insert; to stick in; to plug in (an electronic device)
插銷	bolt (for locking a window, cabinet etc); (electrical) plug
插鎖	bolt-action lock (sliding bolt mechanism, surface or mortise-mounted)
插隊	to cut in line; to jump a queue
插頭	plug
揓	to hold; to grasp
揕	to hit; to thrust
揖	to greet by raising clasped hands
揗	strike, hit with hand; tap
揘	used in 揘畢|揘毕[heng2 bi4]
揘畢	to stab with a spear
揚	abbr. for Yangzhou 揚州|扬州[Yang2 zhou1] in Jiangsu; surname Yang
揚中市	Yangzhong, a county-level city in Zhenjiang City 鎮江市|镇江市[Zhen4 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangsu
揚召	to flag down (a cab) on the street; to hail (a taxicab)
揚名	to become famous; to become notorious
揚名四海	known throughout the country (idiom); world-famous
揚基	Yankee
揚子江	Changjiang 長江|长江 or Yangtze River
揚子鱷	Chinese alligator (Alligator sinensis)
揚州市	Yangzhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
揚州炒飯	Yangzhou fried rice, featuring scrambled egg, diced vegetables and multiple proteins – typically shrimp and barbecued pork
揚帆	to set sail
揚帆遠航	to set sail on a voyage to a distant place
揚幡招魂	(lit.) to raise a banner to summon the soul of a dying person (idiom)
揚抑格	trochaic
揚琴	yangqin; dulcimer (hammered string musical instrument)
揚眉	to raise eyebrows
揚科維奇	Jankovic; Yankovic; Yankovich
揚穀	to winnow
揚聲器	speaker
揚花	(of a plant) to shed pollen
揚菜	Jiangsu cuisine
揚言	to put about (a story, plan, threat etc)
揚起	to raise one's head; to perk up
揚長	with swagger; ostentatiously; to make the best use of one's strengths
揚長而去	to swagger off
揚長避短	to foster strengths and avoid weaknesses (idiom)
揚雄	Yang Xiong (53 BC-18 AD), scholar, poet and lexicographer, author of the first Chinese dialect dictionary 方言[Fang1 yan2]
揚鞭	to whip on; to raise a whip; by ext. to swagger
換	to exchange; to change (clothes etc); to substitute
換乘	to change train (plane, bus etc); transfer between modes of transport
換人	to replace sb (personnel, sports team player etc); substitution
換代	to transition to a new dynasty or regime
換位	to swap places; (logic) conversion
換位思考	to put oneself in sb else’s shoes
換個兒	to change places; to swap places
換刀	tool change (mechanics)
換取	to obtain (sth) in exchange; to exchange (sth) for (sth else)
換句話說	in other words
換台	to change the TV channel
換向	commutation (electricity)
換單	bill of exchange (international trade)
換喻	metonymy
換妻	wife swapping
換季	the season changes
換屆	to change personnel upon expiry of a term of office
換崗	to relieve a sentry; to change the guard
換工	to change workshifts
換帖	to exchange cards containing personal details (when taking an oath of fraternity)
換帥	to replace the person in charge; (sports) to replace the head coach
換成	to exchange (sth) for (sth else); to replace with; to convert into
換房旅遊	house-swap vacation
換擋	to change gear
換擋桿	gear lever
換新	to replace with sth new; to upgrade
換檔鍵	(computing) Shift key
換毛	to molt (of birds); to change feathers
換氣	to take a breath (in swimming); to ventilate
換洗	to change and wash (clothes etc)
換湯不換藥	different broth but the same old medicine (idiom); a change in name only
換熱器	heat exchanger
換牙	to grow replacement teeth (zoology)
換班	to change shift; the next work shift
換算	to convert; conversion
換置	to swap; to exchange; to transpose
換羽	to molt; to change feathers
換而言之	in other words
換茬	rotation of crops
換行	to wrap (text); line feed (computing)
換裝	to get changed; to change clothes
換言之	in other words
換證	to renew a certificate (ID card etc)
換錢	to change money; to sell
換防	to relieve a garrison; to change guard complement
揜	cover up; to surprise
揝	to hold in the hand, to grasp; to wring
揞	to apply (medicinal powder to a wound); to cover up; to conceal
揠	to eradicate; to pull up
握	to hold; to grasp; to clench (one's fist)
握住	to grip; to hold
握別	to shake hands
握力	(strength of one's) grip
握手	to shake hands
握拳	to make a fist
握持	to hold in one's hand; to grip
握有	to have; to hold (usu. sth abstract: power, distribution rights, a bargaining chip etc)
握爪	(humorous) to shake hands
揣	to put into (one's pockets, clothes); Taiwan pr. [chuai3]
揣在懷裡	to tuck into one's bosom
揣度	to estimate; to surmise; to appraise
揣想	to conjecture
揣摩	to analyze; to try to figure out; to try to fathom
揣測	to guess; to conjecture
揣著明白裝糊塗	to pretend to not know; to play dumb
揥	get rid of; ivory hairpin
揦子	(dialect) glass bottle
揩	to wipe
揩拭	to wipe off; to wipe clean
揩擦	to wipe
揩油	to secretively take advantage of others or public resources for minor personal gain
揪	to seize; to clutch; to grab firmly and pull
揪住	to grab
揪出	to uncover; to ferret out (the culprit)
揪心	lit. grips the heart; worried; anxious
揪心扒肝	(idiom) extremely anxious; anguished
揪心揪肺	heart-wrenching
揪揪	creased; wrinkled; depressed; worried; upset
揪痧	folk remedy involving repeatedly pinching the neck, throat, back etc to increase blood flow to the area and relieve inflammation
揪辮子	to grab sb by the queue (i.e. hair); to seize on weak points
揪送	to seize and send (to court, to face punishment)
揪鬥	to seize and subject to public criticism (form of persecution during the Cultural Revolution)
揫	to gather; to collect
揭	to take the lid off; to expose; to unmask
揭不開鍋	to be unable to afford food
揭幕	opening; unveiling
揭幕式	opening ceremony; unveiling
揭幕戰	(sports) opening game; opening match
揭底	to reveal the inside story; to expose sb's secrets
揭批	to expose and criticize
揭曉	to announce publicly; to publish; to make known
揭東區	Jiedong, a district of Jieyang City 揭陽市|揭阳市[Jie1 yang2 Shi4], Guangdong
揭櫫	to disclose; to announce
揭牌	to unveil the plaque for (a school, shop, stadium etc); to inaugurate; to officially open
揭發	to expose; to bring to light; to disclose
揭短	to expose sb's faults or shortcomings
揭破	to uncover
揭示	to reveal; to elucidate; to set forth; to articulate
揭秘	to reveal a secret
揭穿	to expose; to uncover
揭舉	to lift up; (fig.) to put on display; to set forth
揭西縣	Jiexi, a county in Jieyang City 揭陽市|揭阳市[Jie1 yang2 Shi4], Guangdong
揭諦	revealer (protective god)
揭載	to publish
揭開	to uncover; to open
揭陽市	Jieyang, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
揭露	to expose; to unmask; to ferret out
揭黑	to uncover (mistakes, corruption etc); whistle-blowing
揮	to wave; to brandish; to command
揮之不去	impossible to get rid of
揮別	to wave goodbye; (fig.) to say goodbye to; to bid farewell to
揮動	to wave sth; to brandish
揮師	in command of the army
揮戈	to brandish a spear
揮手	to wave (one's hand)
揮斥	to chide; to berate; energetic
揮斥方遒	full of vim
揮桿	swing (golf)
揮毫	to write or draw with a brush; to put pen to paper; to write
揮毫灑墨	to wield a writing brush (idiom)
揮汗	to sweat profusely
揮汗如雨	to drip with sweat; sweat poured off (him)
揮汗成雨	to drip with sweat; sweat poured off (him)
揮淚	to shed tears; to be all in tears
揮灑	to sprinkle; to shed (tears, blood etc); fig. free, unconstrained
揮灑自如	(idiom) to do (sth) with great aplomb
揮發	to volatilize; to vaporize
揮發性	volatility; volatile
揮發性存儲器	volatile memory
揮發油	volatile oil (in general); gasoline
揮翰	(literary) to wield a writing brush
揮舞	to brandish; to wave sth
揮金如土	lit. to squander money like dirt (idiom)
揮霍	to squander money; extravagant; prodigal
揮霍無度	(idiom) to squander recklessly; to spend extravagantly
揮麈	to brandish
揰	poke out; punch; push into
揲	sort out divining stalks
揳	to hammer in (a nail); to drive (a wedge)
援	to help; to assist; to aid
援交	abbr. for 援助交際|援助交际[yuan2 zhu4 jiao1 ji4]
援交妹	prostitute (slang)
援交小姐	girl who engages in enjo-kōsai
援兵	(military) reinforcements
援助	to help; to support; to aid
援助之手	a helping hand
援助交際	Enjo-kōsai or "compensated dating", a practice which originated in Japan where older men give money or luxury gifts to women for their companionship and sexual favors
援助機構	relief agency; emergency service; rescue organization
援引	to quote; to cite; to recommend (a friend, an associate etc)
援手	assistance; a helping hand; to lend a hand
援救	to come to the aid of; to save; to rescue from danger
援用	to quote; to cite
援藏	pro-Tibet; to support Tibet; to support Tibetan independence
援軍	(military) reinforcements
揵	carry
揶	to gesticulate; to play antics
揶揄	to mock; to ridicule
揸	to stretch fingers out
揹債	to be in debt; to be saddled with debts
揻	(dialect) to bend (a long and thin object)
搆	(Tw) (coll.) variant of 夠|够[gou4]; to reach by stretching
搉	consult; knock; beat
搊	pluck (stringed instrument)
搋	to knead; to rub; to clear a drain with a pump
搋子	plunger (for clearing drains)
搋麵	to knead dough
搌	to sop up; to dab
損	(bound form) to decrease; to diminish; (bound form) to harm; to damage
損人	to harm others; to mock people; to taunt
損人不利己	to harm others without benefiting oneself (idiom)
損人利己	harming others for one's personal benefit (idiom); personal gain to the detriment of others
損傷	to harm; to damage; to injure
損公肥私	to damage the public interest for personal profit (idiom); personal profit at public expense
損友	bad friend
損壞	to damage; to injure
損失	loss; damage; to lose
損害	harm; to damage; to impair
損毀	to damage; to wreck; to destroy
損益	profit and loss; increase and decrease
損益表	income statement (US); profit and loss account (UK)
損耗	loss; depletion; wastage; wear and tear
損耗品	consumables
損贈	to donate; donation
搎	to rub with the hand; to stroke
搏	to fight; to combat; to seize
搏動	to beat rhythmically; to throb; to pulsate
搏命	to fight with all one has
搏感情	(Tw) to build up a rapport; to cultivate a warm relationship (from Taiwanese 跋感情, Tai-lo pr. [pua̍h-kám-tsîng])
搏戰	to fight; to struggle; to wage war
搏擊	to fight, esp. with hands; wrestling (as a sport); to wrestle
搏殺	to fight and kill; to engage in fierce combat (also used figuratively of opposing chess players)
搏髀	to beat time by slapping one's thighs
搏鬥	to wrestle; to fight; to struggle
搏魚	fighting fish (genus Betta)
搐	to twitch; to have a spasm
搒	(literary) to whip; to flog
搓	to rub or roll between the hands or fingers; to twist
搓揉	to knead; to rub
搓板	washboard; (slang) flat-chested (woman)
搓洗	to rub clean (garments); to scrub
搓衣板	washboard
搓麻將	to play mahjong
搔	to scratch
搔擾	to disturb; to harass
搔癢	to scratch (an itch); to tickle
搔首弄姿	(idiom) to strike a coquettish pose
搕	to strike; to take in the hand
搖	to shake; to rock; to row
搖人	to call people over; to rally people together
搖光	Alkaid; Eta Ursae Majoris in the Big Dipper
搖動	to shake; to sway
搖勻	to mix by shaking
搖尾乞憐	lit. to behave like a dog wagging its tail, seeking its master's affection (idiom)
搖戰	(literary) to shake with fear
搖手	to wave the hand (to say goodbye, or in a negative gesture)
搖搖擺擺	swaggering; staggering; waddling
搖搖欲墜	tottering; on the verge of collapse
搖搖車	kiddie ride
搖撼	to shake; to rock
搖擺	to sway; to wobble; to waver
搖擺不定	indecisive; wavering
搖擺州	swing state (US politics)
搖擺樂	swing (genre of jazz music)
搖擺舞	swing (dance)
搖旗吶喊	to wave flags and shout battle cries (idiom); to egg sb on
搖晃	to rock; to shake; to sway
搖曳	to sway gently (as in the wind); (of a flame) to flicker
搖曳多姿	swaying gently; moving elegantly
搖桿	joystick
搖椅	rocking chair
搖櫓	to scull (with a single oar, usually mounted on the stern of the boat)
搖櫓船	boat propelled by a yuloh (a single sculling oar)
搖滾	rock 'n' roll (music); to rock; to fall off
搖滾樂	rock music; rock 'n roll
搖獎	to draw the winning ticket (in a lottery)
搖筆桿	to write for a living
搖籃	cradle (for a baby)
搖籃曲	lullaby
搖粒絨	(textiles) polar fleece
搖臂	rocker arm
搖船	to scull; to row a boat
搖號	lottery
搖身一變	to change shape in a single shake; fig. to take on a new lease of life
搖醒	to shake (sb) awake
搖錢樹	legendary tree that sheds coins when shaken
搖電話	(old) to make a phone call
搖頭	to shake one's head
搖頭丸	Ecstasy; MDMA
搖頭擺尾	to nod one's head and wag one's tail (idiom)
搗	to pound; to beat; to hull
搗亂	to disturb; to look for trouble; to stir up a row
搗實	to ram (earth); to compact earth by ramming
搗弄	to move back and forward; to trade
搗毀	to destroy; to smash; sabotage
搗爛	to mash; to beat to a pulp
搗碎	to pound into pieces; to mash
搗蛋	to cause trouble; to stir up trouble
搗蛋鬼	troublemaker
搗衣	to launder clothes by pounding
搗賣	to resell at a profit
搗騰	to turn over sth repeatedly
搗鬼	to play tricks; to cause mischief
搗鼓	to fiddle with sth; to trade with sth
搘	prop up
搛	to pick up with chopsticks
搜	to search
搜刮	to rake in (money); to plunder; to milk people dry
搜尋	to search; to look for
搜尋引擎	(Tw, HK) search engine
搜捕	to hunt and arrest (fugitives); to track down and arrest; a manhunt
搜救	search and rescue
搜救犬	search and rescue dog
搜查	to search
搜查令	search warrant
搜檢	to search out; to check
搜求	to seek; to look for
搜狐	Sohu, Chinese web portal and online media company
搜狐網	Sohu, Chinese web portal and online media company
搜狗	Sogou, Chinese technology company known for its search engine and input method editor
搜獲	to find; to capture (after search); to uncover (evidence)
搜神記	In Search of the Supernatural, compilation of legends about spirits, ghosts and other supernatural phenomena, written and compiled by 干寶|干宝[Gan1 Bao3] in Jin dynasty
搜索	to search (a place, a database, online etc); to search for (sth)
搜索引擎	search engine
搜索枯腸	to rack one's brains (for apt wording etc) (idiom)
搜索樹	(computing) search tree
搜索票	search warrant (Tw)
搜索隊	search party
搜羅	to gather; to collect; to bring together
搜腸刮肚	to search one's guts and belly (idiom); to racks one's brains for a solution
搜身	to do a body search; to frisk
搞	to do; to make; to go in for
搞不好	(coll.) maybe; perhaps
搞不懂	unable to make sense of (sth)
搞亂	to mess up; to mismanage; to bungle
搞基	(slang) to engage in male homosexual practices
搞好	to do well at; to do a good job
搞定	to fix; to settle; to wangle
搞怪	to do sth wacky; wacky; wacky behavior
搞掂	to get sth done; to sort sth out (from Cantonese)
搞毛	(dialect) what are you doing?; what the hell?
搞活	to enliven; to invigorate; to revitalize
搞混	to confuse; to muddle; to mix up
搞烏龍	to mess sth up
搞砸	to mess (sth) up; to foul up; to spoil
搞笑	to get people to laugh; funny; hilarious
搞笑片	comedy film; comedy
搞花樣	to play tricks; to cheat; to deceive
搞通	to make sense of sth
搞錢	to make money
搞錯	mistake; to make a mistake; to blunder
搞頭	(coll.) likelihood of being worthwhile
搞鬼	to make mischief; to play tricks
搠	daub; thrust
搡	to push forcefully; to shove
搢	shake; stick into; strike
搣	(literary) to pull out; to remove; (literary) to massage
搦	(literary) to hold (in the hand); to challenge; to provoke
搦戰	to challenge to battle
搨	to make a rubbing
搪	to keep out; to hold off; to ward off
搪塞	to muddle through; to fob sb off; to beat around the bush
搪瓷	enamel
搬	to move (i.e. relocate oneself)
搬兵	to call for reinforcements; to bring in troops
搬出去	to move out (vacate); to shift sth out
搬動	to move (sth) around; to move house
搬口	to pass on stories (idiom); to sow dissension; to blab; to tell tales
搬唆	to stir up trouble
搬唇遞舌	to pass on stories (idiom); to sow dissension; to blab; to tell tales
搬場	to move (house); to relocate; removal
搬家	to move house; to relocate; to remove (sth)
搬弄	to fiddle with; to play and move sth about
搬弄是非	to incite a quarrel (idiom); to sow discord between people
搬楦頭	lit. to move the shoes on the shoe tree (idiom)
搬用	to apply mechanically; to copy and use
搬石頭砸自己的腳	to move a stone and stub one's toe
搬磚	to do hard physical labor (as a job); (fig.) to play mahjong
搬磚砸腳	to hurt oneself by one's own doing; to boomerang
搬移	to move (house); to relocate; removals
搬請	to request; to call for
搬走	to carry
搬起石頭砸自己的腳	to crush one's own foot while trying to maneuver a rock (to a cliff edge, to drop on one's enemy) (idiom)
搬運	to transport; to carry
搬運工	porter
搬遷	to move; to relocate; removal
搬遷戶	person or household that has to be relocated (to make way for a construction project etc)
搬鋪	to arrange (for the dying)
搭	to put up; to build (scaffolding); to hang (clothes on a pole)
搭乘	to ride as a passenger; to travel by (car, plane etc)
搭伙	to join up with sb; to become partner
搭伴	travel with another; accompany another
搭便	at one's convenience; in passing
搭便車	to get a lift; to hitch a ride
搭咕	to connect; to discuss
搭售	to sell an item only as part of a bundle (thereby forcing consumers to buy goods they do not want); to sell on a tie-in basis
搭嘴	to answer
搭坐	to travel by; to ride on
搭子	(slang) companion
搭客	to take on passengers; passenger
搭幫	to travel together; thanks to
搭建	to build (esp. with simple materials)
搭扣	a buckle or fastener for clothing that does not use a button and buttonhole (e.g. the buckle on metal wristwatches)
搭把手	to help out
搭接	to join; to connect up
搭接片	buckle; connector; overlapping joint
搭救	to rescue
搭架子	to put up scaffolding; to build a framework; to launch an enterprise
搭桌	charity performance (theater in former times)
搭檔	to cooperate; partner
搭界	an interface; to relate with; to affiliate
搭白	to answer
搭縫	overlaid seam
搭肩	to help lift up onto one's shoulders; to stand on sb's shoulder
搭背	harness pad (on draft animal)
搭腔	to answer; to respond; to converse
搭腰	harness pad (on draft animal)
搭膊	shoulder bag
搭茬	to respond to what sb has just said
搭茬兒	erhua form of 搭茬[da1 cha2]
搭蓋	to build (esp. with simple materials)
搭街坊	to become neighbors
搭補	to subsidize; to make up (deficit)
搭訕	to hit on someone; to strike up a conversation
搭話	to talk; to get into conversation with; to send word
搭調	to match; in tune; reasonable
搭車	to ride (in a vehicle); to get a lift; to hitch-hike
搭載	(of a vehicle) to carry (a passenger or payload)
搭連	to bridge over; (linguistics) colligation
搭配	to pair up; to match; to arrange in pairs
搭鉤	a hook; to make contact with sb
搭鐵	abbr. for 搭鐵接線|搭铁接线
搰	to dig; to mix
搲	to crawl; to climb; to scoop up
搳	used in 搳拳[hua2 quan2]
搴	to seize; to pull; to hold up the hem of clothes
搴旗	to pull and capture the enemy's flag
搵	(literary) to wipe away (tears); to press with one's fingers; to soak
搵錢	(dialect) to make money
搵食	to earn one's living (Cantonese)
搶	(literary) to knock against (esp. to knock one's head on the ground in grief or rage)
搶佔	to seize (the strategic high ground)
搶修	to repair in a rush; rush repairs
搶先	to rush (to do sth urgent); to try to be the first; to forestall
搶功	to take credit for sb else's achievements
搶劫	to rob; looting
搶劫案	robbery; holdup
搶劫罪	robbery
搶奪	to plunder; to pillage; to forcibly take
搶婚	marriage by capture; bride kidnapping
搶手	(of goods) popular; in great demand
搶手貨	a best-seller; a hot property
搶掠	to loot; looting
搶救	to rescue
搶斷	(basketball) to steal (the ball)
搶灘	to make an amphibious assault; to seize a beachhead
搶生意	to undercut competitors; to hustle; to compete for business
搶白	to rebuke; to reprimand
搶眼	eye-catching
搶票	to scramble for tickets
搶答	to compete to be the first to answer a question (as on a quiz show)
搶答器	lockout buzzer system (as used by game show contestants)
搶親	marriage by capture; bride kidnapping
搶註	to squat on (a domain name, trademark etc)
搶購	to buy frenetically; to snap up (bargains, dwindling supplies etc)
搶走	to snatch (esp related to a robbery)
搶跑	to jump the gun; to make a false start
搶通	to rush through urgently (e.g. emergency supplies)
搶鏡	to steal the spotlight; to grab the limelight
搶鏡頭	(of a photographer etc) to capture the best shots
搶險	emergency (measures); to react to an emergency
搶險救災	to provide relief during times of emergency and disaster (idiom)
搶風	against the headwind
搶風航行	to tack against the wind (sailing)
搶風頭	to steal the show; to grab the limelight
搷	to beat; to winnow
搽	to apply (ointment, powder); to smear; to paint on
搾	to press; to extract (juice)
搿	to hug
摀	to cover
摁	to press (with one's finger or hand)
摁扣兒	snap fastener; press stud; popper
摁釘兒	thumbtack
摎	to strangle; to inquire into
摑	to slap; also pr. [guo2]
摒	to discard; to get rid of
摒擋	(literary) to put in order; to arrange; cuisine
摒棄	to abandon; to discard; to spurn
摒除	to get rid of; to dismiss
摓	wide; to sew
摔	to throw down; to fall; to drop and break
摔倒	to fall down; to slip and fall; to throw sb to the ground
摔傷	to injure oneself in a fall
摔壞	to drop and break
摔打	to knock; to grasp sth in the hand and beat it; to toughen oneself up
摔斷	to break (e.g. bones) in a fall
摔死	to fall to one's death; to kill by throwing to the ground
摔破	to fall and smash into pieces
摔角	to wrestle; wrestling
摔跌	to take a fall
摔跟頭	to fall; fig. to suffer a setback
摔跤	to trip and fall; to wrestle; wrestling (sports)
摔門	to slam the door
摘	to take; to pick (flowers, fruit etc); to pluck; to remove; to take off (glasses, hat etc)
摘下	to take off; to remove (one's hat, a door from its hinges etc)
摘借	to borrow money
摘取	to pluck; to take
摘帽	lit. to take off a hat; fig. to be cleared of an unfair charge
摘帽子	lit. to take off a hat; fig. to be cleared of an unfair charge
摘引	to quote; to cite
摘抄	to extract; to excerpt
摘桃子	to harvest the fruits of sb else's labor
摘牌	to delist (a traded security)
摘由	high points (of a document); resume
摘要	summary; abstract
摘記	to take notes; to excerpt
摘譯	quoted (from); translation of selected passages
摘金	to win a gold medal
摘錄	to extract; to excerpt; an excerpt
摘除	to excise; to remove an organ
摙	to transport; to remove to take
摛	to spread (fame); wield (pen)
摜	to fling; to fall; to wear
摜奶油	whipped cream
摜蛋	guandan (a popular poker game that originated in Jiangsu province, China)
摞	to pile up; to stack; a pile
摞管	to masturbate
摟	to hug; to embrace; to hold in one's arms
摟住	to hold in one's arms; to embrace
摟抱	to hug; to embrace
摟錢	(coll.) to grab money; to rake in money
摠	general; in every case; to hold
摦	wide; broad
摧	to break; to destroy; to devastate
摧殘	to ravage; to ruin
摧毀	to destroy; to wreck
摩	used in 摩挲[ma1 sa5]
摩亨佐·達羅	Moenjo-daro, capital of Indus valley civilization c. 2000 BC, Sind province, Pakistan, UNESCO World Heritage Site
摩加迪休	Mogadishu, capital of Somalia (Tw)
摩加迪沙	Mogadishu, Indian ocean seaport and capital of Somalia
摩卡	mocha (loanword)
摩卡咖啡	mocha coffee
摩城	Mo i Rana (city in Nordland, Norway)
摩天	skyscraping; towering into the sky
摩天大廈	skyscraper
摩天大樓	skyscraper
摩天樓	skyscraper
摩天輪	Ferris wheel; observation wheel
摩尼	Mani (3rd century AD), Persian prophet and founder of Manichaeism
摩尼教	Manichaeism
摩德納	Modena, Italy
摩托	(loanword) motor
摩托羅拉	Motorola
摩托艇	motorboat
摩托車	(loanword) motorbike; motorcycle
摩托車的士	motorcycle taxi
摩拳擦掌	fig. to rub one's fists and wipe one's palms (idiom)
摩挲	(coll.) to remove (crinkles, dirt) with the palm of the hand
摩揭陀	Magadha, ancient India kingdom reported to be the birthplace of Buddhism
摩擦	friction; rubbing; chafing
摩擦力	friction
摩擦音	fricative (phonetics)
摩斯密碼	Morse code
摩斯拉	Mothra (Japanese モスラ Mosura), Japanese movie monster
摩斯電碼	Morse code
摩旅	to travel by motorcycle
摩根	Morgan (name)
摩根·弗里曼	Morgan Freeman, American actor
摩根士丹利	Morgan Stanley (financial services company)
摩梭	Mosuo ethnic group of Yunnan and Sichuan
摩梭族	Mosuo ethnic group of Yunnan and Sichuan
摩洛哥	Morocco
摩爾	Moore or Moor (name)
摩爾人	a Moor
摩爾多瓦	Moldova
摩爾多瓦人	Moldovan (person)
摩爾定律	(computing) Moore's law
摩爾斯電碼	Morse code
摩爾根	Morgan (name)
摩爾門	Mormon (religion)
摩爾門經	Book of Mormon
摩登	modern (loanword); fashionable
摩登原始人	The Flintstones (TV Series)
摩的	motorcycle taxi; abbr. for 摩托車的士|摩托车的士[mo2 tuo1 che1 di1 shi4]
摩睺羅伽	Mahoraga, snake's headed Indian deity
摩納哥	Monaco
摩絲	(loanword) mousse (hairstyling product)
摩羯	Capricorn (star sign)
摩羯座	Capricornus
摩肩接踵	lit. rubbing shoulders and following in each other's footsteps
摩薩德	Mossad
摩蘇爾	Mosul (city in Iraq)
摩西	Moses
摩西五經	the Pentateuch; the five books of Moses in the Old Testament
摩西律法	law of Moses
摩西的律法	Mosaic Law
摩訶	transliteration of Sanskrit mahā, great
摩訶婆羅多	Mahābhārata, second great Indian epic after 羅摩衍那|罗摩衍那[Luo2 mo2 yan3 na4], possibly originally c. 4th century BC
摩鐵	(Tw) (loanword) motel
摩門	Mormon (religion)
摩門經	Book of Mormon
摩頂放踵	to rub one's head and heels (idiom); to slave for the benefit of others
摩鹿加群島	Maluku Islands, Indonesia
摭	pick up; to select
摮	(archaic) to hit; to strike; to smite
摯	surname Zhi
摯切	sincere; fervent
摯友	intimate friend; close friend
摯友良朋	intimate friend and companion (idiom)
摯情	true feelings
摯愛	true love
摯誠	sincere
摰	to seize with the hand; to grasp; to advance
摲	to cut down; mow
摳	to dig; to pick; to scratch (with a finger or sth pointed)
摳圖	(image processing) to extract a foreground object from its background; image matting
摳字眼	to be fastidious about phrasing, diction, or choice of words
摳搜	(coll.) stingy; miserly
摳腳	to scratch one's foot; (fig.) to be stingy
摳門	(coll.) stingy
摳門兒	erhua form of 摳門|抠门[kou1 men2]
摴	dice; gambling; to release
摶	to roll up into a ball with one's hands (variant of 團|团[tuan2])
摶沙	lacking in cohesion and unity of purpose
摶風	to rise very quickly
摶飯	to roll rice balls; rice ball
摷	to knock; strike
摸	to feel with the hand; to touch; to stroke
摸不著	can't touch; can't reach; (fig.) unable to get a grasp of
摸不著邊	can't make head or tail of
摸不著頭腦	to be unable to make any sense of the matter; to be at a loss
摸八圈	to play mahjong
摸吧	touch bar (hostess bar that allows physical contact)
摸底	to have a clear view (of a situation); to fish for information
摸彩	to draw lots; raffle; lottery
摸得著	to be able to touch; tangible
摸排	thorough search
摸清	to suss out; to figure out; to ascertain
摸爬滾打	to go through challenging experiences
摸牌	to draw a tile (at mahjong); to play mahjong
摸索	to feel about; to grope about; to fumble
摸脈	to feel sb's pulse
摸著石頭過河	to wade across the river, feeling for footholds as one goes (idiom)
摸象	to touch an elephant (of proverbial blind people)
摸金校尉	(idiom) military title said to have existed in the Han dynasty, allegedly granted to officials tasked with retrieving gold from tombs to fund military campaigns; (in popular fiction) tomb raider
摸魚	to catch fish; (fig.) to loaf on the job; to be slack; to take it easy
摸黑	to grope about in the dark
摹	(bound form) to imitate; to copy
摹寫	to trace over; to copy (a calligraphy model); facsimile
摹畫	to describe
摹聲詞	(linguistics) onomatopoeic word
摺	document folded in accordion form; to fold
摺光	refraction
摺奏	memorial to the emperor (folded in accordion form)
摺子	folding notebook; accounts book
摺尺	folding ruler
摺椅	folding chair
摺紙	to fold paper (to make origami articles); origami
摺線	polygonal line; dog leg
摺裙	pleated skirt
摺轉	reflex (angle); to turn back
摻	to mix; to blend; to dilute; to adulterate
摻假	to mix in fake material; to adulterate
摻和	to mix; to put together; to interfere in; to get involved in
摻水	to dilute; to water down; watered down
摻沙子	to mix in some sand (e.g. when making concrete)
摽	(literary) to wave away; to discard
撂	to put down; to leave behind; to throw or knock down
撂倒	to knock down; to mow down
撂地	(of folk artists) to give a performance at a temple fair or on the street etc
撂挑子	(coll.) to quit one's job in disgust
撅	to protrude; to stick out; to pout (also written 噘)
撅嘴	to pout
撇	to throw; to cast; left-slanting downward brush stroke (calligraphy)
撇下	to cast away
撇去	skim
撇嘴	to curl one's lip; to twitch one's mouth
撇大條	(slang) to take a dump
撇掉	to skim froth or foam from the surface of a liquid
撇條	(slang) to go to the toilet
撇步	(Tw) trick (of the trade); clever move (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [phiat-pōo])
撇清	to say a matter has no relationship with the individual referred to, to emphasize one is innocent or in the clear
撇號	apostrophe
撇開	to disregard; to leave aside
撈	to fish up; to dredge up
撈一把	to profiteer; to gain some underhand advantage
撈什子	encumbrance; burden; that awful thing (colloquial)
撈取	to dredge up; to scoop up from the water
撈外快	to make extra money
撈女	(slang) gold digger; woman who pursues men for money
撈本	to get one's money back (esp. gambling); to recoup one's losings
撈油水	(coll.) to gain profit (usu. by underhand means)
撈稻草	(fig.) to clutch at straws (in desperation)
撈錢	lit. to dredge for money; to make money by reprehensible means
撊	valiant; wrathful
撋	to rub between the hands
撏	to pull out (esp. hair or feathers); to pick; to pluck
撐	to support; to prop up; to push or move with a pole
撐傘	to hold up an umbrella
撐場面	to keep up appearances; to put up a front
撐拒	to resist; to struggle; to sustain
撐持	(fig.) to sustain; to shore up
撐杆	a pole; a prop
撐死	full to the point of bursting; (coll.) at most
撐死膽大的，餓死膽小的	fullness for the bold, famine for the timid (idiom)
撐破	to burst
撐竿跳	pole vault
撐竿跳高	pole vault
撐腰	to support; to brace
撐船	to punt; to pole a boat
撐門面	to keep up appearances; to put up a front
撐開	to stretch taut; to open (an umbrella); to hold (a bag etc) open
撒	to scatter; to sprinkle; to spill
撒丁島	Sardinia
撒丫子	(dialect) to scamper off; to take to one's heels; to make oneself scarce
撒克遜	Saxon (people)
撒克遜人	Saxon (people)
撒切爾	Thatcher (name)
撒切爾夫人	Mrs Thatcher
撒哈拉	Sahara
撒哈拉人	Sahrawi (person)
撒哈拉以南	sub-Saharan
撒哈拉以南非洲	sub-Saharan Africa
撒哈拉威	Sahrawi
撒哈拉沙漠	Sahara Desert
撒囈掙	(coll.) to talk in one's sleep; to sleepwalk
撒嬌	to act like a spoiled child; to act coquettishly
撒嬌賣乖	to behave ingratiatingly
撒尿	to pass water; to piss; to urinate
撒手	to let go of sth; to give up
撒手不管	to stand aside and do nothing (idiom); to take no part in
撒手人寰	to leave one's mortal frame (idiom); to die
撒手鐧	(fig.) trump card
撒手閉眼	to have nothing further to do with a matter (idiom)
撒拉	Salar ethnic group
撒拉族	Salar ethnic group
撒拉語	Salar, language of Salar ethnic group of Qinghai province
撒拉鐵	Shealtiel (son of Jeconiah)
撒播	to sow (seeds by scattering); scatter sowing
撒旦	Satan or Shaitan
撒村	(dialect) to curse; to speak vulgarly
撒歡	to frolic; to gambol
撒歡兒	erhua form of 撒歡|撒欢[sa1 huan1]
撒母耳記上	First book of Samuel
撒母耳記下	Second book of Samuel
撒氣	to leak (of air); to go flat (of a tire); to vent one's anger
撒潑	to make an unreasonable scene
撒然	sudden
撒爾孟	(Catholicism) Salmon (son of Nashon)
撒狗糧	(slang) to be lovey-dovey in public
撒督	Zadok (son of Azor and father of Achim in Matthew 1:13)
撒科打諢	to intersperse comic dialogue (as they do in operas)
撒種	to sow seeds
撒網	to throw a net
撒羅滿	(Catholicism) Solomon, a king of ancient Israel
撒腳	to run off; to beat it
撒腿	to take to one's heels; to scram
撒西米	sashimi (loanword)
撒謊	to tell lies
撒賴	to make a scene; to raise hell
撒迦利亞	Zechariah (name); Zechariah (Old Testament prophet)
撒迦利亞書	Book of Zechariah
撒都該人	Sadducees
撒酒瘋	to get drunk and act crazy; roaring drunk
撒野	to display shockingly bad behavior; to behave atrociously
撒門	(Protestantism) Salmon (son of Nashon)
撒馬利亞	Samaria
撒馬爾干	Samarkand, Uzbekistan
撒馬爾罕	Samarkand, Uzbekistan
撓	to scratch; to thwart; to yield
撓敗	defeated; routed; crushed
撓曲	to bend; flexing; deflection
撓率	the torsion (of a space curve)
撓癢癢	to tickle
撓裂	split due to repeated folding; flex crack
撓鉤	iron hook at the end a long pole
撓頭	tricky; problematic; difficult
撕	to tear
撕咬	to tear at (with the teeth, like one animal attacking another)
撕心裂肺	in unbearable anguish; agonizing
撕扯	to tear apart
撕掉	to tear out (and throw away); to rip away
撕毀	to tear up; to rip up; too shred
撕爛	to tear up; to tear to pieces
撕破	to tear; to rip
撕破臉	to have an acrimonious falling-out; to shed all pretense of cordiality
撕碎	to tear to shreds
撕票	lit. to tear the ticket; to kill a hostage (usually held for ransom)
撕裂	to tear; to rip apart
撕逼	(slang) (lit.) to tear cunt; (fig.) (of females) to have a catfight
撖	surname Han; Taiwan pr. [Gan3]
撙	to reduce or cut down on; to rein in; to restrain
撚	to play tricks on or toy with; delicate; exquisite (Cantonese)
撝	to split; to direct; to brandish
撝挹	to be extremely modest and polite
撝損	to humble
撞	to knock against; to bump into; to run into
撞倒	to knock down; to knock over; to run over (sb)
撞傷	bruise; bump
撞大運	to have a lucky stroke; to try one's luck
撞擊	to strike; to hit; to ram
撞擊坑	impact crater
撞擊式印表機	impact printer
撞擊式打印機	(computing) impact printer
撞機	(of an airplane) to collide (with another plane midair); to crash
撞死	to knock down and kill (with a car, train etc)
撞毀	to smash
撞爛	to destroy by smashing; smashed up
撞球	billiards; billiards ball; pool (game)
撞臉	(coll.) to look alike; to be a spitting image of
撞衫	to wear the same outfit as sb else (in public)
撞見	to meet by accident
撞車	to crash (into another car)
撞運氣	to try one's luck; to rely on fate
撞針	firing pin
撞鎖	lock
撞騙	to swindle
撞鬼	to encounter a ghost or supernatural being
撟	to raise; to lift; to pretend
撢	to dust
撣	to brush away; to dust off; brush
撣子	duster
撣邦	Shan state of east Myanmar (Burma)
撣邦高原	Shan plateau of east Myanmar (Burma)
撤	to remove; to take away
撤下	to withdraw; to remove (from a place); to remove from office
撤併	to consolidate; to merge
撤僑	to evacuate (e.g. foreign civilians from a war zone)
撤兵	to withdraw troops; to retreat
撤出	to withdraw; to leave; to retreat
撤回	to recall; to revoke; to retract
撤掉	to cut; to throw out; to depose (from office)
撤換	to dismiss and replace (sb); to replace (sb or sth)
撤檔	(of a film, TV drama etc) to be withdrawn from release; to be pulled from the release schedule
撤款	to withdraw money
撤營	to withdraw troops
撤稿	to withdraw a submission; to retract a submission (to a newspaper, magazine, journal etc)
撤職	to eliminate; to sack; to remove from office
撤訴	to drop a lawsuit
撤走	to retire; to remove; to withdraw
撤軍	to withdraw troops; to retreat
撤退	to retreat
撤銷	to cancel; to revoke; to rescind; (computing) to undo
撤除	to remove; to dismantle
撤離	to withdraw from; to evacuate
撥	to push aside with the hand, foot, a stick etc; to dial; to allocate
撥亂反正	bring order out of chaos
撥付	to disburse (money)
撥冗	to find time to do sth in the midst of pressing affairs
撥出	to pull out; to allocate (funds); to dial
撥動	to stir; to prod; to poke
撥奏	pizzicato
撥子	plectrum
撥弄	to move to and fro (with hand, foot, stick etc); to fiddle with
撥弦樂器	plucked string or stringed instrument; plucked instrument
撥打	to call; to dial
撥接	dial-up (Internet connection)
撥款	to allocate funds; appropriation
撥正	to set right; to correct
撥浪鼓	rattle drum; pellet drum – a hand drum with two pellets attached to strings on either side, mounted on a rod that is twirled to make the pellets strike the drum (used in ritual music, as a children's toy or as a street vendor's noisemaker)
撥火棍	stick or rod used to tend a fire
撥片	pick; plectrum
撥用	appropriation
撥空	to make time
撥號	to dial a telephone number
撥號盤	telephone dial
撥號連接	dial-up connection; dial-up networking
撥號音	dial tone
撥轉	to turn; to turn around; to transfer (funds etc)
撥通	to get through to sb on the phone
撥開	to push aside; to part; to brush away
撥雲見日	lit. to dispel the clouds and see the sun (idiom); fig. to restore justice
撦	to pull; to tear
撧	to break off; to snap
撩	to lift up (sth hanging down); to raise (hem of skirt)
撩人	to attract; to titillate
撩動	to stir up; to provoke
撩妹	(coll.) to flirt; to hit on girls
撩惹	to provoke; to tease
撩撥	to provoke; to tease
撩是生非	to stir up trouble; to provoke angry exchange
撩起	to raise; to lift up (curtains, clothing etc)
撩逗	to provoke; to tease
撩開	to push aside (clothing, curtain etc) to reveal something; to toss aside
撩騷	to flirt
撫	to comfort; to console; to stroke
撫卹	(of an organization that has a duty of care) to give financial support to relatives of sb who has died or suffered serious injury
撫寧區	Funing, a district of Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
撫州市	Fuzhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
撫平	to flatten; to smooth down; to unwrinkle
撫弄	to fondle; to caress; to stroke
撫恤金	compensation payment (for injury); relief payment
撫愛	to love tenderly; affection; loving care; to caress
撫慰	to console; to comfort; to soothe
撫慰金	pension or lump-sum payment for the injured or for the family of the deceased
撫抱	caress
撫摩	to stroke; to caress
撫摸	to gently caress and stroke; to pet; to fondle
撫松縣	Fusong, a county in Baishan City 白山市[Bai2 shan1 Shi4], Jilin
撫琴	to play the zither; classical variant of 彈琴|弹琴[tan2 qin2]
撫綏	to appease; to pacify
撫育	to nurture; to raise; to foster
撫遠三角洲	Bolshoi Ussuriisk Island in the Heilongjiang or Amur river, at mouth of the Ussuri River opposite Khabarovsk
撫遠市	Fuyuan, a county-level city in Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
撫順市	Fushun, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
撫順縣	Fushun, a county in Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
撫養	to foster; to bring up; to raise
撫養成人	to bring up (a child)
撫養權	custody (of a child etc)
撫養費	child support payment (after a divorce)
撬	to lift; to pry open; to lever open
撬動	to shift sth with a crowbar etc
撬棍	crowbar
撬棒	crowbar
撬槓	crowbar
撬竊	burglary; house-breaking
撬鎖	to pick a lock; to force a lock
撬門	to break in; to force a door
撬開	to pry open; to lever open
播	(bound form) to sow (seeds); to spread (ideas, rumors etc); to broadcast (radio signals etc)
播出	to broadcast; to air (a TV program etc)
播報	to announce; to read (the news)
播報員	announcer
播客	podcast (loanword)
播州區	Bozhou, a district of Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
播弄	to order people about; to stir up; to sow discord
播撒	to sow (seeds); to scatter
播放	to broadcast; to transmit (by radio or TV)
播放列表	playlist
播放機	player (e.g. CD player)
播映	to broadcast a film; to televise
播發	to broadcast
播種	to grow (maize etc) from seed; to plant (maize etc) by sowing seed
播講	to broadcast a lecture, a book reading etc
播送	to broadcast; to transmit; to beam
播音	to transmit; to broadcast
播音員	announcer; broadcaster
撮	to pick up (a powder etc) with the fingertips; to scoop up
撮合	to play matchmaker; to act as a middleman
撰	to compose; to compile
撰寫	to write; to compose
撰擬	to draft; to draw up; to compose (a plan or document)
撰文	to write an article
撰稿	to write (an article for publication)
撰稿人	author (of a manuscript)
撰述	to compose (a piece of writing); to write; (written) work
撰錄	to compile and record
撱	clip; shorten; throw away
撲	to throw oneself at; to pounce on; to devote one's energies
撲倒	to fall down
撲克	poker (game) (loanword); playing cards
撲克牌	poker (card game); playing card
撲克臉	poker face
撲扇	to flutter; to flap
撲打	to swat; (of wings) to flap
撲救	firefighting; to extinguish a fire and save life and property
撲朔迷離	impossible to unravel; confusing
撲棱	(of wings, curtains etc) to flap; to flutter
撲殺	to kill; to cull
撲滅	to eradicate; to extinguish
撲滿	piggy bank
撲熱息痛	paracetamol (loanword)
撲空	lit. to rush at thin air; fig. to miss one's aim
撲臉兒	strikes you in the face
撲落	to fall; to drop; socket (loanword for "plug")
撲街	(slang) (originally Cantonese) to flop; to bomb
撲襲	(of an animal) to pounce (on its prey)
撲責	to punish by flogging
撲跌	to fall flat on one's face
撲通	(onom.) sound of object falling into water; plop
撲閃	to wink; to blink
撲面	lit. sth hits one in the face; directly in one's face
撲面而來	lit. sth hits one in the face; directly in one's face
撲騰	(onom.) thud; flutter; flop
撲鼻	to assail the nostrils (of fragrance and odors)
撳	to press (with one's hand or finger)
撻	(bound form) to whip; to flog
撼	to shake; to vibrate
撼動	to shake up; to deal a shock; (fig.) to stir (sb's heart)
撼天動地	earth-shaking
撽	to beat with a stick; to hit from the side
撾	ancient weapon with a tip shaped like a hand or claw
撿	to pick up; to collect; to gather
撿了芝麻丟了西瓜	to let go of the big prize while grabbing at trifles (idiom)
撿到籃裡就是菜	all is grist that comes to the mill (idiom)
撿屍	(slang) to target an intoxicated person for sexual assault
撿拾	to pick up; to gather
撿漏	to repair a leaky roof; (dialect) to find fault; to nitpick
撿骨	bone-gathering, a custom of Fujian and Taiwan in which a son recovers the bones of his deceased father from the grave and places them in an urn for permanent storage at a different location
擀	to roll (dough etc)
擀麵杖	rolling pin
擁	to hold in one's arms; to embrace; to surround; to gather around
擁兵自重	(of a warlord etc) to assemble one's personal army, thereby presenting a challenge to the central government
擁吻	to hug and kiss
擁堵	(of traffic) to become congested; congestion
擁塞	to be clogged up; to be congested (traffic, computer network etc)
擁戴	to give one's allegiance; (popular) support
擁抱	to embrace; to hug
擁擠	crowded; to throng; congestion
擁擠不堪	overcrowded; jam-packed
擁有	to have; to possess; to own
擁有權	right of ownership
擁立	(formal) to back sb as leader
擁護	to endorse; to support
擁護者	supporter (person)
擁躉	fan; fanatic
擂	to pound (with a mortar and pestle); to hit (a person); to beat (a drum); to bang on (a door)
擂臺	elevated stage on which martial competitions or duels were held; arena
擂臺賽	single-elimination open tournament (the winner stays on until he is himself defeated)
擂茶	"leicha", a beverage or gruel made from tea leaves, roasted peanuts and herbs etc ground into a powder, traditionally consumed by Hakka people and in the north of Hunan province
擂鼓	to beat a drum
擂鼓鳴金	to beat the drum and sound the gong (idiom); fig. to order an advance or retreat
擄	(bound form) to capture (sb)
擄人勒贖	to kidnap for ransom
擄掠	to plunder; to pillage; (fig.) to win (people's hearts)
擄獲	to capture (sb); (fig.) to win (people's hearts)
擄走	to abduct
擅	without authority; to usurp; to arrogate to oneself
擅場	to excel in some field; expert at sth
擅斷	arbitrary
擅權	to arrogate power
擅美	to enjoy fame without sharing it; to take the credit
擅自	without permission
擅長	to be good at; to be expert in
擅闖	to enter without permission; to trespass
擅離職守	to abscond; to be absent without leave
擇	to select; to choose; to pick over
擇不開	impossible to separate; impossible to disentangle
擇偶	to choose a spouse
擇刺	to pick out the bones in a fish
擇善固執	to choose what is good and hold fast to it (idiom)
擇善而從	to choose the right course and follow it (idiom)
擇定	to select
擇日	to fix a date (for an event); to select an auspicious date
擇日不如撞日	lit. carefully setting an auspicious date does not beat seizing an opportunity (idiom)
擇日子	to pick an auspicious day
擇機	at the right time; when appropriate
擇菜	to pick the edible part of vegetables
擇食	to be picky (food)
擉	to pierce; to break through
擊	to hit; to strike; to break
擊中	to hit (a target); to strike
擊倒	to knock down; knocked down
擊刺	to stab; to hack
擊劍	fencing (sport)
擊墜	to shoot down
擊弦類	hammered string type (of musical instrument)
擊弦類樂器	hammered string musical instrument
擊打	to beat; to lash
擊掌	to clap one's hands; to clap each other's hands; high five
擊敗	to defeat; to beat
擊斃	to kill; to shoot dead
擊暈	to stun; to render unconscious (with a blow)
擊殺	to attack and kill
擊毀	to attack and destroy
擊沉	to attack and sink (a ship)
擊潰	to defeat; to smash; to rout
擊球	to bat; to hit a ball (sport)
擊球員	(baseball, cricket etc) batter
擊碎	to smash to pieces
擊缶	to beat time with a percussion instrument made of pottery
擊落	to shoot down (a plane)
擊退	to beat back; to repel
擊鼓	to beat a drum
擊鼓傳花	beat the drum, pass the flower (game in which players sit in a circle passing a flower around while a drum is beaten – when the drumbeat stops, the player holding the flower must sing a song, answer a question, or drink a glass of wine etc)
擊鼓鳴金	to beat the drum and sound the gong (idiom); fig. to order an advance or retreat
擋	to resist; to obstruct; to hinder
擋位	(in a manual car) gear (i.e. reverse, neutral, 1st, 2nd etc)
擋住	to obstruct; to block
擋拆	pick and roll (basketball); screen and roll
擋泥板	(car, bicycle etc) fender; mudguard; (UK) wing
擋瑯	(slang) to ask for money; to lend money
擋箭牌	arrow-blocking shield
擋路	to be in the way; to block the path
擋郎	(slang) to ask for money; to lend money
擋鋃	(slang) to ask for money; to lend money
擋雨	to protect from the rain
擋風牆	lit. windbreak; fig. protector
擋風玻璃	windshield; wind screen
擋駕	to decline to receive a visitor; to turn sb away
操	to grasp; to hold; to operate
操之過急	to act with undue haste (idiom); eager and impatient; overhasty
操作	to work; to operate; to manipulate
操作台	operating desk; control panel; console
操作員	operator
操作數	operand (computing)
操作環境	operating environment
操作符	operator (computing)
操作系統	operating system
操作者	operator
操作規程	operating rules; work regulations
操典	drill book
操刀	to hold a knife; (fig.) (of a surgeon) to perform an operation
操刀手	person charged with decisive action; hatchet man
操切	rash; hasty
操勞	to work hard; to look after
操坪	drill ground
操場	playground; sports field; drill ground
操守	personal integrity
操弄	to manipulate; manipulation
操心	to worry about
操持	to manage; to handle
操控	to control; to manipulate
操斧伐柯	(cf Book of Songs) How to fashion an ax handle? You need an ax
操法	drill rules
操演	drill; exercise; demonstration
操盤	(finance) (of a fund manager, high-wealth individual etc) to make large trades (in stocks, futures etc)
操盤手	heavyweight operator in a market
操神	to worry about; to look after; to take care of
操練	drill; practice
操縱	to operate; to control; to rig
操縱桿	joystick; control lever
操縱自如	to operate (a machine etc) with ease
操舟	to steer a boat
操航	to take the helm; to steer (a ship)
操舵	to steer (a vessel); to hold the rudder; at the helm
操舵室	pilothouse
操蛋	lousy; rotten
操行	(student's) behavior
操觚	to write; to compose
操課	military drill
操辦	to arrange matters
擎	to raise; to hold up; to lift up
擎拳合掌	to clasp hands; to put one's palms together (in obeisance)
擐	pass through; to get into (armor)
擒	to capture
擒人節	(jocular) Valentine's Day, referring to the rising number of extramarrital affairs being discovered on that day
擒獲	to apprehend; to capture; to seize
擒賊擒王	(idiom) to defeat the enemy by capturing their leader
擓	(dialect) to scratch (an itch); to carry on the arm; to scoop up
擔	picul (100 catties, 50 kg); two buckets full
擔仔麵	ta-a noodles or danzai noodles, popular snack originating from Tainan
擔任	to hold a governmental office or post; to assume office of
擔保	to guarantee; to vouch for
擔子	carrying pole and the loads on it; burden; task
擔待	to pardon; please excuse (me); to take responsibility
擔心	anxious; worried; uneasy
擔憂	to worry; to be concerned
擔懮	worry; anxiety
擔承	to undertake; to assume (responsibility etc)
擔擔麵	Sichuan noodles with a spicy and numbing sauce
擔架	stretcher; litter; bier
擔架兵	stretcher bearer (military)
擔架床	stretcher
擔架抬	stretcher (for the injured)
擔當	to take upon oneself; to assume
擔綱	to play the leading role
擔荷	to shoulder a burden
擔負	to shoulder; to bear; to undertake
擔責	to bear responsibility; to be held accountable
擔驚受怕	(idiom) apprehensive; alarmed; anxious
擖	scrape
擗	(literary) to beat the breast
擘	thumb; to break; to tear
擘劃	to plan; to arrange
擘開	to break open
據	according to; to act in accordance with; to depend on
據估計	according to estimates
據信	according to belief; it is believed that
據傳	it is rumored that ...; it is reported that ...
據報	it is reported; according to reports
據報導	according to (news) reports
據報道	according to a report; It is reported that...
據守	to guard; to hold a fortified position; entrenched
據實	according to the facts
據實以告	to report according to the facts; to tell the truth
據悉	according to reports; it is reported (that)
據我所知	as far as I know; to the best of my knowledge
據我看	in my view; in my opinion; from what I can see
據料	according to forecasts; it is expected that...
據有	to occupy; to hold; to possess
據此	accordingly; in view of the above
據為己有	(idiom) to illegally take possession of; to appropriate
據理	according to reason; in principle
據理力爭	to contend on strong grounds; to argue strongly for what is right
據稱	it is said; allegedly; according to reports
據統計	according to statistics
據聞	it is said; it is alleged; it is reported
據說	it is said that; reportedly
據險	to rely on natural barriers (for one's defense)
據點	stronghold; defended military base; base for operations
擠	to crowd in; to cram in; to force others aside
擠上去	to squeeze oneself up into (a crowded vehicle etc)
擠來擠去	to mill about; to jostle
擠兌	bank run
擠入	to squeeze in; to force oneself into; to cram into; to intrude
擠出	to squeeze out; to extrude; to drain
擠占	to muscle in; to take possession; to occupy; to squat
擠咕	to wink at
擠垮	to squash; to crush; to squeeze out of business
擠壓	to squeeze; to compress; (fig.) to crowd out; to put pressure on
擠奶	to milk
擠對	(coll.) to mock; to bully; to force (a concession out of sb)
擠提	bank run; to crowd into a bank and withdraw all one's money
擠擠插插	crowded tightly; jam-packed
擠滿	crowded to bursting point; filled to overflowing; jam-packed
擠牙膏	lit. to squeeze out toothpaste
擠眉弄眼	to make eyes; to wink
擠眼	to wink
擠破頭	to fight tooth and nail to get sth
擠緊	to squeeze
擠花	(cookery) to decorate using a piping bag
擠花袋	piping bag (cookery)
擠落	(coll.) to push aside
擠踏	stampede
擠軋	to bump and shove
擠進	to break into; to force one's way into; to barge into
擠過	to squeeze through; to force one's way through
擢	to pull out; to select; to promote
擢升	to promote (sb); to upgrade; to ascend
擢第	to pass the civil service examination (in imperial China)
擢髮難數	lit. as difficult to count as hair pulled from sb's head (idiom)
擣	stir; to pound
擤	to blow one's nose
擤鼻涕	to blow one's nose
擦	to rub; to scratch; to wipe; to polish
擦乾	to wipe dry
擦亮	to polish
擦亮眼睛	to keep one's eyes open (idiom); to be on one's guard
擦傷	to abrade; to scrape; to chafe; to graze
擦子	eraser; (kitchen) grater; shredder
擦寫	to erase
擦屁股	to wipe one’s ass; (fig.) (coll.) to clean up sb else's mess
擦抹	to wipe
擦拭	to wipe clean
擦掉	to wipe
擦掠	to brush against; to graze; to scratch
擦撞	to sideswipe (a car etc)
擦擦筆	erasable pen
擦棒球	foul tip
擦槍走火	to shoot accidentally while polishing a gun
擦油	to oil; to anoint
擦洗	to clean (with water or alcohol); to wipe and wash; to swab
擦澡	to rub down with a wet towel; to give a sponge bath
擦碗布	dish cloth; tea towel
擦絲	to grate (cheese, carrots etc); to shred
擦網球	net ball; let (tennis etc)
擦肩而過	to brush past; to pass by (sb)
擦腚紙	toilet paper
擦身而過	to brush past
擦邊	to make light contact with the edge of sth
擦邊球	(table tennis) edge ball
擦除	to erase
擦鞋墊	doormat
擦音	fricative
擦黑兒	(dialect) dusk
擩	to stain; to dye
擫	to press down
擬	to plan to; to draft (a plan); to imitate
擬人	personification; anthropomorphism
擬作	to write in the style of some author
擬具	to draft; to devise; to compose
擬制	legal fiction
擬古	to emulate a classic; to work in the style of a classic (author)
擬古之作	a work in a classic style; a pastiche
擬合	to fit (data to a model); a (close) fit
擬大朱雀	(bird species of China) streaked rosefinch (Carpodacus rubicilloides)
擬定	to draw up; to draft; to formulate
擬態	(biol.) mimicry; (protective) mimicry; camouflage
擬於不倫	to draw an impossible comparison
擬游隼	(bird species of China) Barbary falcon (Falco pelegrinoides)
擬球	(math.) pseudosphere, a surface in ordinary space of constant negative curvature
擬稿	to draft (a statement)
擬聲	onomatopoeia
擬聲唱法	scat singing
擬聲詞	onomatopoeia
擬製	to draft (a plan etc)
擬訂	to draw up (a plan)
擬議	proposal; recommendation; to draft
擬音	to make a sound effect; sound effect
擬鹵素	pseudohalogen, e.g. cyanogen (CN)2
擭	trap
擯	to reject; to expel; to discard
擯斥	to reject; to dismiss
擯棄	to abandon; to discard; to cast away
擯除	to discard; to get rid of; to dispense with
擰	mistake; to twist
擰巴	(dialect) awkward; uncomfortable
擰成一股繩	to twist (strands) together to form a rope
擰開	to unscrew; to twist off (a lid); to turn on (a faucet)
擱	to put; to place; to leave; to put aside; to shelve; to postpone
擱板	shelf
擱淺	to run aground; to become stranded
擱筆	to put down the brush; to stop writing (or painting)
擱置	to put; to place; to set aside; to shelve; to put on hold
擱腳板	footrest
擲	to toss; to throw dice; Taiwan pr. [zhi2]
擲地有聲	lit. if thrown on the floor, it will make a sound (idiom)
擲筊	(folk religion) to divine by casting moon blocks 筊杯[jiao3 bei1], with the positions of the blocks determining the divine answer
擲色	to throw the dice
擲還	please return (an item sent in the mail)
擲骰子	to throw the dice
擴	to enlarge
擴充	to expand
擴列	(Internet slang) to add a friend (on a social network etc)
擴印	to enlarge (a photo); to print larger
擴及	to extend to
擴增	to augment; to amplify; to extend
擴增實境	augmented reality (computing)
擴大	to expand; to enlarge; to broaden one's scope
擴大再生產	to expand production; to reproduce on an extended scale
擴大化	to extend the scope; to exaggerate
擴孔	to widen a tube; to ream (i.e. widen a hole)
擴容	to ramp up capacity; to expand in scale
擴展	to extend; to expand; extension
擴展名	(file) extension (computing)
擴展塢	docking station
擴展程序	(computing) extension (for a software application, esp. web browsers)
擴建	to extend (a building, an airport runway etc)
擴張	expansion; dilation; to expand (e.g. one's power or influence)
擴招	(of a school) to expand enrollment
擴散	to spread; to proliferate; to diffuse
擴散周知	to let everyone know; spread the word!
擴版	to increase the number of pages or the size of the pages of a publication
擴編	to expand (esp. by new recruitment); to increase the army; to augment
擴胸器	chest expander (exercise equipment)
擴表	to expand the balance sheet
擴軍	armament; to expand armed forces
擴音	to amplify (sound)
擴音器	megaphone; loudspeaker; amplifier
擴音機	amplifier; loudspeaker; hearing aid
擷	to collect; Taiwan pr. [jie2]
擷取	to pick; to select; to take
擷英	(literary) to select the best parts
擸	to hold, to grasp; to hold the hair; to pull at
擺	to arrange; to exhibit; to move to and fro
擺了一道	to play tricks on; to make a fool of
擺事實講道理	present the facts and reason things out
擺出	to assume; to adopt (a look, pose, manner etc)
擺動	to sway; to swing; to move back and forth
擺地攤	to run a street stall
擺子	malaria
擺布	to arrange; to order about; to manipulate
擺平	to be fair; to be impartial; to settle (a matter etc)
擺弄	to move back and forth; to fiddle with
擺手	to wave one's hand
擺拍	to take a staged photograph
擺攤	to run a street stall
擺攤子	to set up a stall; (fig.) to maintain a large staff and organization
擺放	to set up; to arrange; to lay out
擺明	to show clearly
擺晃	to swing; to sway
擺架子	to put on airs; to assume great airs
擺樣子	to do sth for show; to keep up appearances
擺渡	ferry
擺渡車	shuttle bus; feeder bus
擺滿	to spread over an area
擺烏龍	to mess sth up; to screw up
擺爛	(neologism, attested by 2014) (slang) to stop striving (esp. when one knows one cannot succeed); to let it all go to hell; (sports) to tank
擺盤	to arrange food on a plate; to plate up; food presentation
擺線	cycloid
擺脫	to break away from; to cast off (old ideas etc); to get rid of
擺花架子	lit. to arrange a shelf of flowers; superficial display (idiom)
擺蕩	to swing; to sway
擺設	ornament; decorative item; (fig.) sth that is merely for show
擺設兒	erhua form of 擺設|摆设[bai3 she5]
擺譜	to put on airs; to be ostentatious
擺賣	hawking; street vending
擺輪	balance (of a watch or clock); balance wheel
擺造型	to pose (for a picture)
擺鐘	pendulum clock
擺門面	to keep up appearances; to put up a front
擺闊	to parade one's wealth; to be ostentatious and extravagant
擺飾	knickknack; ornament; decorative item
擺龍門陣	(dialect) to chat; to gossip; to spin a yarn
擻	(dialect) to stoke the embers (to revive a fire); Taiwan pr. [sou3]
擼	(dialect) to grasp (sth long or cylindrical) and slide the hand up or down
擼串	(coll.) to eat grilled skewers
擼管	(slang) to masturbate
擼貓	(slang) to pet a cat
擼鐵	(coll.) to pump iron; to work out
擽	(old) to beat; to pound
擾	to disturb
擾亂	to disturb; to perturb; to harass
擾動	to disturb; to stir up; disturbance
擾攘	bustling; to create trouble; to disturb
擾民	(of government policy, noise pollution, crime etc) to make people's lives difficult
擾流板	spoiler (automotive or aeronautical)
擿	to select; to nitpick; to expose
攀	to climb (by pulling oneself up); to implicate
攀供	to implicate others, without foundation, in confessing one's own crime
攀升	to clamber up; (of prices etc) to rise
攀害	damaged by slander
攀山家	mountaineer (HK)
攀岩	rock climbing; to climb a rockface
攀扯	to implicate
攀折	to snap off (flowers, leaves, twigs etc from a tree or shrub)
攀援	to climb up (a rope etc); climbing (plant)
攀枝花	kapok (tree)
攀枝花市	Panzhihua, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
攀比	to make invidious comparisons; to compete with; to emulate
攀爬	to climb
攀登	to climb; to pull oneself up; to clamber
攀緣	to climb up (a rope etc); climbing (plant)
攀親	to seek to profit by family ties
攀親道故	(idiom) to use claims to kinship or friendship to climb socially
攀誣	to frame; to accuse unjustly
攀談	to chat
攀越	to climb over; to get over (difficulties); to scale
攀附	to climb (of climbing plants); to creep; to cling on to
攀附權貴	to cling to the powerful and rich (idiom); social climbing
攀高枝	(coll.) to try to improve one's social standing by marrying or affiliating with people of higher status
攀高枝兒	erhua form of 攀高枝[pan1 gao1 zhi1]
攀高結貴	lit. to cling to the high, connect to the rich (idiom); to try to attach oneself to the rich and powerful
攂	to beat (old variant of 擂[lei2])
攃	preceding
攄	set forth; to spread
攆	to expel; to oust; (dialect) to chase after
攆出	to expel; to drive out; to oust
攆走	to drive out; to oust
攉	to shovel
攉煤機	coal-shovel machine
攋	to destroy; to rip; to tear open
攏	to gather together; to collect; to approach; to draw near to
攏共	altogether; in sum; in all; in total
攏攥	to grasp; to clutch
攏火	to make a fire
攏總	altogether; in sum; in all; in total
攐	to lift up the skirts
攔	to block sb's path; to obstruct; to flag down (a taxi)
攔住	to stop; to bar the way
攔劫	to mug; to intercept and rob
攔截	to intercept
攔檢	(of police etc) to stop (sb) for inspection; to pull (sb) over
攔櫃	sales counter; inquiry desk
攔河壩	a dam across a river
攔精靈	(slang) condom (pun on 藍精靈|蓝精灵[Lan2 jing1 ling2])
攔網	to intercept at the net (volleyball, tennis etc); to block
攔腰	(hitting) squarely in the middle; (slicing) across the middle
攔路	to block sb's path; to waylay
攔路虎	stumbling block
攔車	to thumb a lift; to hitchhike
攔阻	to block; to obstruct
攖	oppose; to attack
攘	(literary) to push up one's sleeves; (literary) to reject; to resist
攘善	to claim credit due to others; to appropriate others' credit or honor
攘場	to spread harvested grain over an area
攘外	to resist foreign aggression
攘外安內	to resist foreign aggression and pacify the interior of the country (idiom)
攘夷	to repel the barbarians
攘奪	to seize
攘攘	disorderly; confused; chaotic
攘災	to ward off calamities; to avoid disaster
攘竊	to usurp; to steal
攘羊	to take home sb else's stray sheep
攘臂	to bare one's arms (in agitation)
攘袂	to rise to action with a determined shake of the arms
攘袖	to roll up the sleeves
攘詬	to clear oneself of dishonor
攘辟	to stand off; to make way
攘除	to get rid of; to weed out; to reject
攙	to take by the arm and assist
攙假	to dilute; to debase (by mixing with fake material)
攙兌	to mix (different substances together); to blend
攙合	to mix together; mixture; blend
攙和	to mix; to mingle; to interfere
攙扶	to lend an arm to support sb
攙雜	to mix; to blend; to dilute
攛	rush; stir up; throw
攛掇	to urge sb on
攜	to carry; to take along; to bring along
攜家帶眷	to take all one's family along (idiom); encumbered by a family
攜帶	to carry (on one's person); to support (old); Taiwan pr. [xi1 dai4]
攜帶者	(medicine) carrier (of a recessive gene, virus etc)
攜手	hand in hand; to join hands; to collaborate
攜手並肩	hand in hand and shoulder to shoulder
攜手同行	to walk hand in hand; to cooperate
攜款	to take funds (esp. illegally or corruptly obtained)
攜眷	accompanied by one's dependents; encumbered by wife and children
攜程	Trip.com Group, largest travel agency in China, formerly named Ctrip (until 2019)
攝	(bound form) to take in; to absorb; to assimilate
攝像	to videotape
攝像機	video camera
攝像頭	webcam; surveillance camera
攝入	to take in; to absorb; to consume
攝入量	intake (quantity)
攝取	to absorb (nutrients etc); to assimilate; intake
攝影	to take a photograph; photography; to shoot (a movie)
攝影家	photographer
攝影師	photographer; cinematographer; cameraman
攝影棚	film studio; television studio
攝影機	(old) camera; movie camera; cine camera
攝影術	photography
攝影記者	photojournalist
攝政	to act as regent
攝政王	regent
攝氏	Celsius; centigrade
攝氏度	°C (degrees Celsius)
攝製	to produce (a TV show etc)
攝護腺	(Tw) prostate gland
攝錄	to film; to record (a video)
攝食	to consume
攢	to collect; to hoard; to accumulate
攢勁	(dialect) to muster strength; to exert oneself; to strive
攢簇	to gather closely together
攢聚	to gather; to assemble
攢錢	to save up money
攢集	to gather; to assemble
攣	(bound form) (of muscles) to cramp; to spasm
攣縮	(medicine) (verb and noun) contracture
攤	to spread out; vendor's stand
攤事兒	(coll.) to get into trouble
攤位	vendor's booth
攤售	to set up stall
攤商	stallkeeper; street peddler
攤子	booth; vendor's stall
攤手	to throw up one's hands; to loosen one's grip; to let go
攤提	to amortize; amortization
攤曬	to lay sth out to dry
攤檔	(dialect) vendor's stall
攤派	to apportion expenses, responsibilities etc; to demand contributions
攤牌	to lay one's cards on the table
攤薄	(finance) to dilute (earnings per share)
攤薄後每股盈利	diluted earnings per share
攤販	stallkeeper; peddler
攤銷	to amortize; amortization
攤錢	to bear part of the cost
攤開	to spread out; to unfold
攤雞蛋	omelet; to make an omelet
攤頭	a vendor's stall
攤黃菜	(dialect) scrambled eggs
攤點	place for a vendor's stall
攥	(coll.) to hold; to grip; to grasp
攥拳頭	to clench one's fists
攧	to fall; to stamp (one's foot); to toss
攪	to disturb; to annoy; to mix
攪亂	to disrupt; to throw into disorder
攪動	to mix; to stir
攪和	to mix; to blend; (fig.) to spoil; to mess up things
攪局	to upset the apple cart; to disrupt things
攪屎棍	(derog.) shit-stirrer; troublemaker
攪打	to beat; to whisk; to whip (eggs, cream etc)
攪拌	to stir; to agitate
攪拌機	blender; food mixer
攪擾	to disturb; to annoy
攪混	to mix; to blend
攪珠機	lottery machine
攫	to seize; to snatch; to grab
攫取	to seize; to capture; to grab
攫奪	to seize; to pillage; to plunder
攬	to monopolize; to seize; to take into one's arms; to embrace
攬客	to solicit customers; to tout for customers
攬收	(of a courier) to pick up; to collect (parcels or goods for shipping)
攬權	to concentrate power in one's own hands
攬炒	(Hong Kong) to seek mutual destruction
攬轡澄清	to assume one's post with the aspiration of bringing about peace and order to the nation (idiom)
攮	to fend off; to stab
支	to support; to sustain; to erect
支付	to pay (money)
支付不起	to be unable to pay; unaffordable
支付寶	Alipay, online payment platform
支使	to order (sb) around; to send on an errand; to send away
支光	watt, unit of power used for electric bulbs
支公司	subsidiary; branch
支出	to spend; to pay out; expenses; expenditure
支前	to support the front (military)
支努干	Chinook (helicopter)
支原體	Mycoplasma (parasitic bacteria without cell wall)
支原體肺炎	Mycoplasma pneumonia
支取	to withdraw (money)
支吾	to respond evasively or vaguely; to elude; to stall
支吾其詞	(idiom) to talk in a roundabout way to cover up the truth; evasive
支子	son of a concubine or son of the wife other than her first
支差	to assign corvée duties (forced labor)
支店	branch store
支座	abutment
支恐	to support terrorism
支應	to deal with; to wait on; to provide for
支承	to support; to bear the weight of (a building)
支承銷	fulcrum pin
支招	to give advice; to make a suggestion; to help out
支持	to be in favor of; to support; to back
支持度	level of support
支持率	support level; popularity rating
支持者	supporter
支援	to provide assistance; to support; to back
支撐	to prop up; to support; strut
支撐架	bracket
支支吾吾	to hem and haw; to stall; to stammer
支教	program bringing education to underdeveloped areas
支族	subfamily
支書	branch secretary
支架	trestle; support; stand; frame; (medicine) stent; to prop up
支柱	mainstay; pillar; prop
支柱產業	mainstay industry
支根	branching root; rootlet
支氣管	bronchial tube; bronchus
支氣管炎	bronchitis
支流	tributary (river)
支票	check (bank); cheque
支票簿	checkbook (banking)
支系	branch or subdivision of a family
支系統	subsystem
支線	branch line; side road; spur
支與流裔	lit. branches and descendants; of a similar kind; related
支行	subbranch of a bank
支走	to send sb away (with an excuse)
支邊	to help develop the border areas
支那	phonetic transcription of China (Japanese: Shina), colonial term, generally considered discriminatory
支部	branch, esp. grass root branches of a political party
支配	to control; to dominate; to allocate
支配力	power or force to dominate
支配權	authority to dispose of sth
支開	to send (sb) away; to change the subject; to open (an umbrella etc)
支隊	detachment (of troops)
支離	fragmented; disorganized; incoherent
支離破碎	scattered and smashed (idiom)
支點	fulcrum (for a lever)
攰	totally exhausted (Cantonese); Mandarin equivalent: 累[lei4]
攲	up; uneven
攴	to tap; to knock lightly
收	to receive; to accept; to collect
收下	to accept; to receive
收件人	recipient (of mail); To: (email header)
收件匣	inbox (email)
收件箱	inbox
收假	(of holidays) to come to an end; end of a vacation
收入	to take in; income; revenue
收兵	to retreat; to withdraw troops; to recall troops
收冬	harvest season; autumn
收列	to list; to include
收到	to receive
收割	to harvest; to reap; to gather in crops
收割機	harvester (machine)
收割者	reaper
收匯	foreign exchange collection (finance)
收取	to receive; to collect
收受	to receive; to accept
收口	(knitting, basket weaving etc) to cast off; to bind
收回	to regain; to retake; to take back
收地	to confiscate land for redistribution (China, 1947-52)
收報	to receive mail; to receive a telegraph
收報人	recipient (of mail or a message)
收報員	telegraph operator
收報室	mail room; radio reception room
收報機	telegraph receiver
收場	the end; an ending; to wind down
收妥	(commerce) to have received (goods, money)
收存	to receive for storage; delivery of goods; to gather and store
收存箱	delivery box; drop box
收官	(Go) to play the endgame; (fig.) to conclude; to bring to a close
收容	to provide a place to stay; to house; to accommodate
收容人	inmate
收容所	temporary shelter; hospice; refuge (e.g. for animals)
收容教育	custody and reeducation (administrative punishment for prostitutes)
收尾	to wind up; to bring to an end; to finish
收尾音	the final of a Korean syllable (consonant or consonant cluster at the end of the syllable)
收屍	to collect or retrieve a corpse (for burial or cremation); to claim a body
收山	(slang) (from Cantonese) to bow out after a long career; to pack it in
收山之作	the final work in the career of a composer, film director or architect etc
收工	to stop work for the day (generally of laborers); to knock off
收市	to close the market (for the day)
收廢站	garbage collection point; trash dump
收復	to recover (lost territory etc); to recapture
收復失地	to recover lost territory
收心	to concentrate on the task; to curb one's evil instincts
收悉	(literary) to receive and understand the contents of (a letter)
收成	harvest
收房	to take as a concubine
收手	to stop; to pull back
收押	in custody; to keep sb in detention
收拾	to put in order; to tidy up; to pack
收拾殘局	to clear up the mess; to pick up the pieces
收據	receipt
收攏	to draw to oneself; to gather up; to collect
收攏人心	to win people's hearts
收攬	to win the support of; to get over to one's side; to keep control of
收支	cash flow; financial balance; income and expenditure
收支平衡點	break-even point
收支相抵	to break even; balance between income and expenditure
收效	to yield results
收斂	to dwindle; to vanish; to make vanish
收斂序列	convergent sequence (math.)
收斂性	convergence (math.); astringent
收斂級數	convergent series (math.)
收斂鋒芒	to draw in one's claws; to show some modesty
收方	receiving party; recipient
收旗卷傘	(lit.) to furl up flags and umbrellas (idiom)
收服	to subdue; to force to capitulate; to reduce to submission
收束	to constrict; to draw tight; to gather (one's thoughts)
收條	receipt
收款	to receive payment; to collect money
收款臺	checkout counter; cashier's desk
收殘綴軼	to gather and patch up sth that is badly damaged (idiom)
收生婆	midwife
收留	to offer shelter; to have sb in one's care
收留所	shelter; refuge
收發	to receive and send; to receive and transmit
收發室	mail room; radio room (i.e. reception and transmission)
收益	earnings; profit
收益帳戶	income account (accountancy)
收益率	earnings rate; earnings yield (finance)
收監	to imprison; to take into custody
收盤	market close
收盤價	closing price (of share, commodity etc)
收看	to watch (a TV program)
收票員	ticket collector
收禮	to accept a gift; to receive presents
收租	to collect rent
收稅	to collect tax
收穫	to harvest; to reap; to gain
收穫節	harvest festival
收納	to receive; to accept; to take in
收緊	to tighten up (restrictions etc)
收線	to reel in (a fishing line etc); to hang up the phone
收編	to incorporate into one's troops; to weave in
收縮	to pull back; to shrink; to contract
收縮壓	systolic blood pressure
收繳	to recover (illegally obtained property); to seize; to capture
收羅	to gather (people); to collect (talent); to come to an end
收聲	(Cantonese) to stop talking; to shut up
收聽	to listen to (a radio broadcast)
收腹	to draw in one's belly; to tighten the abdominal muscles
收藏	to collect (works of art, dolls, antiques etc); to put away for safekeeping; (Internet) to bookmark
收藏夾	favorites folder (web browser)
收藏家	a collector (e.g. of artworks)
收視	to watch TV
收視率	ratings (of a TV show)
收訊	(wireless) reception
收訖	received in full (goods, payment)
收詞	to collect words; to harvest entries for a dictionary
收貨	to receive delivery
收貨人	consignee
收買	to purchase; to buy; to bribe; to buy off
收費	to charge a fee
收費站	tollbooth
收購	to purchase or acquire in bulk or at an official level (esp. by a state or organization)
收購要約	takeover bid
收銀	to receive payment
收銀台	checkout counter; cashier's desk
收銀員	cashier; checkout clerk
收銀機	cash register; check out counter
收錄	to include (in a collection); to put together (stories, poems etc)
收錄機	radio-tape recorder
收集	to gather; to collect
收音	to receive a radio signal; to make an audio recording
收音機	radio
收養	to take in and care for (an elderly person, a dog etc)
攷	to beat; to hit; to inspect
攸	distant, far; adverbial prefix
攸縣	You County or Youxian, a county in Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
攸關	of great concern
改	to change; to alter; to transform
改信	to convert (to another religion)
改元	to change an emperor's or ruler's reign title (old)
改刀	to cut food into a specific size or shape (strips, slices or cubes etc)
改判	(law) to amend a judgment; to commute
改制	to reorganize; to restructure
改則縣	Gertse, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
改動	to alter; to modify; to revise
改口	to change one's tune; to modify one's previous remark
改口費	a gift of money given by parents on both sides after a wedding, to their new daughter-in-law or son-in-law
改名	to rename
改善	to make better; to improve
改嘴	to deny; to go back on one's word
改圖	to edit a picture; to modify an image
改天	another day; some other time
改姓	to change one's surname
改嫁	to remarry (of a woman)
改學	to switch from one major or faculty to another (at a university)
改寫	to revise; to edit
改建	to rebuild; to transform (a building); to refurbish
改弦易轍	change of string, move out of rut (idiom); dramatic change of direction
改悔	to mend one's ways
改惡向善	turn away from evil and follow virtue
改成	to convert; to turn into (sth else)
改掉	to correct (a bad habit etc)
改換	to change (sth); to alter (sth); to change over (to sth else)
改換門庭	to improve one's family's social status by moving up in the world
改日	another day; some other day
改易	to change; to modify
改朝	to transition to a new dynasty
改朝換代	to transition to a new dynasty or regime
改期	to reschedule; to rearrange (e.g. a meeting); to postpone
改業	to change profession or business
改樣	to change completely
改款	to make modifications to a product's model or design
改正	to correct; to amend; to put right
改水	to improve water quality
改為	to change into
改版	to revise the current edition; revised edition
改用	to change over to; to switch to; to use (sth different)
改稱	to change a name; to rename
改稿	to revise a manuscript
改簽	to change one's reservation
改組	to reorganize; to reshuffle (posts etc)
改編	to adapt; to rearrange; to revise
改良	to improve (sth); to reform (a system)
改良主義	reformism (i.e. favoring gradual change as opposed to revolution)
改行	to change profession
改裝	to change one's costume; to repackage; to remodel
改觀	change of appearance; to revise one's point of view
改訂	to revise (text, plan etc)
改訂伊犁條約	Treaty of Saint Petersburg of 1881 in which Russia agreed to hand back Yili province to Qing China in exchange for compensation payment and unequal treaty rights
改譯	to correct (improve) a translation
改變	to change; to alter; to transform
改造	to transform; to reform; to remodel
改進	to improve; to make better; improvement
改運	to alter one's fate
改過	to correct one's errors; to mend one's ways
改過自新	to reform and start afresh (idiom); to turn over a new leaf
改道	to change route; to divert (a road or a watercourse)
改選	reelection; to reelect
改邪歸正	to mend one's ways (idiom); to turn over a new leaf
改錐	screwdriver
改錯	to correct an error
改開	reform and opening up (Chinese policy introduced in 1978) (abbr. for 改革開放|改革开放[gai3 ge2 kai1 fang4])
改隸	(of an entity) to come under the administration of (a different authority)
改革	reform; to reform
改革家	reformer
改革派	the reformist party
改革者	reformer
改革開放	reform and opening up (Chinese policy introduced in 1978)
改頭換面	to change outwardly while remaining essentially the same (derog.) (idiom)
攺	a kind of metal or jade ornament worn in ancient times to ward off evil spirits
攻	to attack; to accuse; to study
攻伐	to attack; to raid; (of medicine) potent
攻克	to capture; to take; to overcome
攻入	to force entrance into; to score a goal (sport)
攻勢	(military) offensive
攻占	to seize control of (an enemy position); (fig.) to take by storm
攻取	to attack and seize
攻城	to besiege (a town)
攻城木	battering ram
攻城略地	to take cities and seize territories (idiom)
攻堅	to assault a fortified position
攻堅克難	to tackle a thorny problem and overcome its challenges
攻心	to mount a psychological attack; to try to demoralize
攻打	to attack (the enemy)
攻擊	to attack; to accuse; to charge
攻擊力	potential for attack; firepower
攻擊機	ground attack aircraft
攻擊線	the front line; the attack (e.g. football forwards)
攻滅	to conquer; to defeat (militarily)
攻無不克，戰無不勝	to triumph in every battle and win every fight (idiom); all-conquering
攻略	(literary) to storm and capture; strategy; directions; guide; how-to
攻砭	to perform acupuncture
攻破	to make a breakthrough; to break through; to breach (military)
攻訐	to attack sb by exposing faults; to denounce
攻讀	to major (in a field); to study a specialty to obtain a higher degree
攻關	to storm a strategic pass; fig. to tackle a key problem
攻防	to attack and defend (usu. in reference to opposing sides, but can be one party playing both roles)
攻陷	to capture (a fortress, city etc); to take by force
放	to put; to place; to release
放一馬	to let (sb) off; to let (sb) get away with sth
放下	to lay down; to put down; to let go of; to relinquish; to set aside
放下包袱	to lay down a heavy burden
放下屠刀，立地成佛	lay down butcher's knife, become a Buddha on the spot (idiom); instant rehabilitation
放下身段	to get off one's high horse; to dispense with posturing (and adopt a more humble or empathetic attitude)
放不下	to have no room to put sth; to be unable to let go
放不下心	cannot stop worrying
放之四海而皆準	applicable anywhere (idiom)
放任	to ignore; to let alone; to indulge
放任政策	laissez-faire policy; non-interference
放任自流	to let sb do whatever they want; to indulge; to give free reins to
放低	to lower; to be humble
放倒	to knock over; to knock down; to lay flat; to fell; to bring down
放假	to have a holiday or vacation
放債	to lend money (for interest); to give credit
放克	(music) funk (loanword)
放入	to put in; to insert
放出	to let off; to give out
放刁	to act wickedly; to bully
放告	to release a statement
放哨	to keep watch; to do sentry duty; to be on patrol
放在心上	to care about; to take seriously; to take to heart
放在眼裡	to pay attention to; to care about; to attach importance to
放大	to enlarge; to magnify
放大倍數	magnifying power; magnification
放大器	amplifier
放大炮	to talk big; to shoot one's mouth off
放大片	(Tw) cosmetic contact lens; big eye contact lens; circle contact lens
放大紙	enlarging paper (photography); bromide paper
放大鏡	magnifying glass
放學	to dismiss students at the end of the school day
放寬	to relax (a rule); to ease (restrictions); to extend (a time limit)
放射	to radiate; radioactive
放射免疫測定	radioimmunoassay
放射學	radiology
放射性	radioactive
放射性同位素	radioactive isotope; radioisotope
放射性廢物	radioactive waste
放射性材料	radioactive material
放射性核素	radioactive nuclide; radionuclide
放射性武器	radiological weapon
放射性污染	radioactive contamination
放射性沾染	radioactive contamination
放射性活度	radioactivity
放射性煙羽	radiation plume
放射性碘	radioactive iodine
放射性落下灰	radioactive fallout
放射性衰變	radioactive decay
放射治療	radiotherapy
放射源	radiation source
放射物	radioactive material
放射病	radiation sickness
放射療法	radiotherapy
放射線	radiation; rays of radiation
放射蟲	radiolarian (single-celled animal)
放射防護	radiological defense
放屁	to fart; to break wind; to talk nonsense
放屁蟲	stinkbug
放山雞	free-range chicken
放工	to knock off work for the day
放平	to set level; to lay flat
放得下	to be able to put (sth) down; to have room for; to be able to accommodate
放心	to feel relieved; to feel reassured; to be at ease
放情	to do sth to one's heart's content
放情丘壑	to enjoy oneself in nature's embrace (idiom)
放慢	to reduce the pace (of movements, steps etc)
放慢腳步	to ease up the pace; to slow things down
放慢速度	to ease up the pace; to slow things down
放手	to let go one's hold; to give up; to have a free hand
放手一搏	to put one's all into the fight
放映	to project (an image onto a screen); to show (a movie, slide etc)
放映室	cinema room; viewing room
放映機	projector
放晴	(of weather) to clear up
放暑假	to be on summer vacation
放棄	to renounce; to abandon; to give up
放槍	to open fire; to shoot a gun
放權	to devolve authority to lower levels
放款	to lend money (as a commercial loan)
放毒	to poison; (fig.) to spread vicious rumors
放氣	to release breath; to deflate; to fart
放水	to turn on the water; to let water out; (sports) to throw a game
放水屁	(coll.) to shart
放浪	unrestrained; dissolute; dissipated
放浪不羈	wanton and unrestrained (idiom); dissolute
放浪形骸	to abandon all restraint (idiom)
放火	to set on fire; to commit arson; to create a disturbance
放焰口	to feed the starving ghosts (i.e. offer sacrifice to protect the departed spirit)
放煙幕彈	to spread a smokescreen
放熱反應	exothermic reaction
放爆竹	to set off firecrackers
放牛班	class of underachievers; dunces' class (Tw)
放牧	to graze (livestock); to herd (livestock)
放生	to set free a captive animal (in some cases, as an act of Buddhist mercy)
放療	radiotherapy (abbr. for 放射療法|放射疗法[fang4 she4 liao2 fa3])
放眼	to survey; to view broadly
放眼望去	as far as the eye can see
放空	to relax completely; to empty one's mind; (finance) to sell short
放空擋	to coast along in neutral gear (in a car); (coll.) to go commando
放空炮	(lit.) to fire blank shots; (fig.) to be all talk and no action
放線	(angling) to play a fish; (kite-flying) to let the string out
放線菌	actinomycete (bacteria of order Actinomycetales)
放緩	to slow; to slow down (the pace of)
放縱	to indulge; to pamper; to connive at
放置	to put
放羊	to tend a flock of sheep; to let sheep out to pasture
放羊娃	shepherd; shepherd boy
放聲	very loudly; at the top of one's voice
放聲大哭	to sob loudly; to bawl
放肆	wanton; unbridled; presumptuous
放膽	to act boldly
放著明白裝糊塗	to pretend not to know (idiom)
放蕩	licentious; wanton; morally unrestrained
放蕩不羈	wanton and unrestrained (idiom); dissolute
放血	(TCM) to practice bloodletting; (medicine) to perform phlebotomy
放行	to let pass
放衛星	to launch a satellite
放話	to give orders; to spread news or rumors
放誕	untrammeled; reckless; wanton
放誕不拘	wanton and unrestrained (idiom); dissolute
放誕不羈	wanton and unrestrained (idiom); dissolute
放貸	to provide loans
放走	to release; to set free; to allow (a person or an animal) to go
放送	to broadcast; to announce over loudspeakers
放逐	to banish; to deport; to send into exile
放進	to put into
放過	to let off; to let slip by; to let sb get away with sth
放還	to release (a hostage); to put back in place
放長線釣大魚	use a long line to catch a big fish (idiom); a long-term plan for major returns
放閃	(coll.) (of a couple) to display affection in public or by posting photos on social media
放開	to let go; to release
放開手腳	to have free rein (idiom)
放電	electrical discharge; (coll.) to lure; to entice
放鞭炮	to set off firecrackers
放音	playback (of recorded sound)
放風	to allow in fresh air; to allow a prisoner out for exercise
放風箏	to fly a kite
放飛	to allow to fly
放飛機	(coll.) to stand sb up; to fail to honor an agreement
放養	to raise (livestock or poultry) in an open environment
放馬後炮	to fire after the horse has bolted (idiom); to act too late to be effective
放馬過來	bring it on!; give me all you got!
放鬆	to relax; to slacken; to loosen
放鳥	to stand someone up
放鴿子	to stand sb up; to bail on sb
政	political; politics; government
政事	politics; government affairs
政令	government decree
政務	government affairs
政區	administrative division
政協	CPPCC (Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference)
政和縣	Zhenghe, a county in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
政圈	government circle; political circle
政壇	political circles
政委	political commissar (within the army)
政客	politician
政審	examine sb's political record; political investigation
政局	political situation
政工	political work; ideological work
政府	government
政府債券	government bonds (investments)
政府大學院	the name of Academia Sinica 中央研究院[Zhong1 yang1 Yan2 jiu1 yuan4] when it was founded
政府官員	government employee
政府新聞處	information services department
政府機關	government (viewed as an organization); institutions of government
政府軍	government army
政府首腦	head of state; government leader
政情	political situation
政改	political reform
政教	church and state; government and education; political education
政教合一	union of religious and political rule; theocracy; Caesaropapism
政教處	political education office (within a school) (PRC)
政敵	political opponent
政柄	at the helm of state; political power; regime
政權	regime; political power
政權真空	power vacuum; political vacuum
政治	politics; political
政治人物	political figure; politician; statesman
政治化	to politicize
政治史	political history
政治委員	political commissar (during Russian and Chinese communist revolutions)
政治學	politics; political science
政治家	statesman; politician
政治局	politburo
政治局面	political climate
政治庇護	political asylum
政治思想	political thought; ideology
政治性	political
政治改革	political reform
政治機構	political organization
政治正確	political correctness; politically correct
政治氣候	political climate
政治犯	political prisoner
政治獻金	political donation
政治生活	political life
政治異議人士	political dissident
政治立場	political position
政治經濟學	political economy
政治舞台	political arena
政治運動	political movement
政治避難	political asylum
政治部	political division; cadre department
政治關係	political relations
政治體制	form of government
政法	politics and law
政法委	Political and Legal Affairs Commission (may refer to the national-level Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission, responsible for overseeing law enforcement, judicial affairs and domestic security, or a corresponding body at a lower administrative level)
政派	political group; faction
政理	politics; government affairs
政界	political and government circles
政策	policy
政紀	rules for political staff; political discipline
政經	politics and the economy (from 政治[zheng4 zhi4] and 經濟|经济[jing1 ji4])
政綱	political program; platform
政績	(political) achievements; track record
政要	important political leader; government dignitary
政見	political views
政訓處	political training office (during Chinese revolution, since renamed political division 政治部)
政論	political commentary
政變	coup d'état
政通人和	efficient government, people at peace (idiom); all is well with the state and the people
政體	form of government; system of government
政黨	political party
敁	to weigh in the hand, to estimate; to shake
敂	to knock
敃	strong; robust; vigorous
故	happening; instance; reason
故世	to die; to pass away
故事	narrative; story; tale
故事片	fictional film; feature film
故事線	storyline; plotline
故云	that's why it is called...
故交	former acquaintance; old friend
故人	old friend; the deceased
故伎	usual trick; old tactics
故伎重演	to repeat an old stratagem; up to one's old tricks
故作	to pretend; to feign
故作姿態	to put on an act
故作深沉	to play the profound thinker
故作端莊	artificial show of seriousness; to pretend to be solemn
故典	old classics; old customs; cause
故去	(euphemism) to pass away; to die
故友	old friend; deceased friend
故吏	(literary) former subordinate
故國	country with an ancient history
故園	one's hometown
故土	native country; one's homeland
故地	once familiar places; former haunts
故址	old site
故城	old city
故城縣	Gucheng, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
故墓	old tomb
故宅	former home
故宮	the Forbidden City; abbr. for 故宮博物院|故宫博物院[Gu4 gong1 Bo2 wu4 yuan4]
故宮博物院	Palace Museum, in the Forbidden City, Beijing
故家	old and respected family
故家子弟	descended from an old family
故居	former residence
故弄玄虛	deliberately mystifying; to make sth unnecessarily complicated
故意	deliberately; on purpose
故態復萌	to revert to old ways
故我	one's old self; one's original self; what one has always been
故業	old estate; former empire; former occupation
故此	therefore
故步自封	stuck in the old ways (idiom); refusing to acknowledge new ideas
故殺	premeditated murder
故知	a close friend over many years
故稱	... hence the name (used at the end of a sentence)
故第	former residence
故紙堆	a pile of old books
故而	therefore
故舊	old friends
故舊不棄	do not neglect old friends
故訓	old teaching (e.g. religious instruction)
故跡	historical ruins
故轍	rut (made by vehicles); (fig.) conventional ways
故道	old road; old way; old course (of a river)
故都	former capital; ancient capital
故鄉	home; homeland; native place
故里	home town; native place
故障	malfunction; breakdown; defect
敇	Imperial command or edict
效	effect; efficacy; to imitate
效價	potency
效價能	potency
效力	effectiveness; positive effect; to serve (in some capacity)
效勞	to serve (in some capacity); to work for
效尤	to follow a bad example
效忠	to vow loyalty and devotion to
效應	effect (scientific phenomenon)
效果	result; effect; efficacy
效果圖	rendering (visual representation of how things will turn out)
效法	to imitate; to follow the example of
效犬馬之勞	to render one's humble services; to be at sb's beck and call
效率	efficiency
效用	usefulness; effectiveness; (economics) utility
效益	benefit; effectiveness; efficiency
效能	efficacy; effectiveness
效驗	(desired) effect; (expected) result; effective
敉	peaceful
敏	(bound form) quick; nimble; agile; (bound form) quick-witted; smart
敏感	sensitive; susceptible
敏感性	sensitive; sensitivity
敏捷	nimble; quick; shrewd
敏銳	keen; sharp; acute
救	to save; to assist; to rescue
救世	salvation
救世主	the Savior (in Christianity)
救世軍	Salvation Army (protestant philanthropic organization founded in London in 1865)
救主	savior
救亡	to save the nation from subjugation
救人一命勝造七級浮屠	saving a life is more meritorious than building a seven-floor pagoda (idiom)
救兵	relief troops; reinforcements
救出	to rescue; to pluck from danger
救助	to help sb in trouble; aid; assistance
救命	to save sb's life; (interj.) Help!; Save me!
救命稻草	(one's) last straw to clutch at; one's last hope
救國	to save the nation
救場	to save the show (for instance by stepping in for an absent actor)
救場如救火	the show must go on (idiom)
救市	market rescue (by central bank)
救急	to provide emergency assistance
救急不救窮	help the starving but not the poor (idiom)
救恩	salvation
救恩計劃	plan of salvation
救援	to save; to support; to help
救援隊	rescue team
救撈局	sea rescue service; lifeboat service
救星	savior; liberator; emancipator; knight in shining armor
救死扶傷	to help the dying and heal the injured
救治	to provide critical care (to a patient or a diseased plant)
救活	to bring back to life
救濟	emergency relief; to help the needy with cash or goods
救濟糧	relief grain; emergency provisions
救火	to put out a fire; firefighting
救災	to relieve disaster; to help disaster victims
救災款	disaster relief funds
救生	to save a life; life-saving
救生員	lifeguard
救生圈	life buoy; life belt; (jocular) flab; spare tire
救生筏	a life raft
救生船	lifeboat
救生艇	lifeboat
救生艇甲板	boat deck (deck where lifeboats are stored)
救生衣	life jacket; life vest
救生隊	rescue team
救磚	to unbrick; to restore (an electronic device) to a functional state
救護	to rescue; to administer first aid
救護人員	rescue worker
救護車	ambulance
救贖	to redeem; redemption; salvation
救贖主	Redeemer
救難	to rescue; rescue (operation, workers)
敔	percussion instrument shaped as a hollow wooden tiger, with serrated strip across the back, across which one runs a drumstick
敕	imperial orders
敕令	Imperial order or edict (old)
敕封	to appoint sb to a post or confer a title on sb by imperial order
敖	surname Ao
敖包	(loanword from Mongolian) road or boundary marker made of piled up earth or stones, formerly worshipped as the dwelling place of spirits
敖廣	Ao Guang, Dragon King of the East Sea, character in Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]
敖德薩	Odessa (city in Ukraine)
敖漢	Aohan banner or Aokhan khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
敖漢旗	Aohan banner or Aokhan khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
敖貝得	Obed (name)
敖閏	Dragon King of the West Sea, Ao Run, also Ao Ji (敖吉)
敖順	Ao Shun, Dragon King of the North Sea in 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]
敗	to defeat; to damage; to lose (to an opponent)
敗亡	to be defeated and dispersed
敗仗	lost battle; defeat
敗光	to squander one's fortune; to dissipate one's wealth
敗北	(literary) to be routed (in a war); to suffer defeat (in sports etc)
敗壞	to ruin; to corrupt; to undermine
敗子回頭	return of the prodigal son
敗家	to squander a family fortune
敗家子	spendthrift; wastrel; prodigal
敗局	lost game; losing battle
敗德	evil conduct
敗戰	to lose a war; fig. the loser (in a competition or election)
敗毒	(TCM) to relieve inflamation and internal heat; to detoxify
敗火	relieve inflammation or internal heat
敗筆	a faulty stroke in calligraphy or painting
敗絮	ruined; broken down; shabby
敗績	to be utterly defeated; to be routed
敗胃	(of food or medicine) to impair digestion; to suppress appetite
敗興	disappointed
敗落	(of status or wealth) to decline
敗血症	septicaemia
敗訴	to lose a lawsuit
敗走	to run away (in defeat)
敗退	to retreat in defeat
敗選	to lose an election
敗陣	to be defeated on the battlefield; to be beaten in a contest
敗露	(of a plot etc) to fall through and stand exposed
敗類	scum of a community; degenerate
敘	abbr. for Syria 敘利亞|叙利亚[Xu4 li4 ya4]
敘事	to narrate; to recount; narrative
敘事線	narrative thread; storyline
敘事詩	narrative poem
敘利亞	Syria
敘利亞文	Syriac language (from c. 2nd century BC); the Syriac script
敘州區	Xuzhou, a district of Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
敘拉古	Syracuse, Sicily; also written 錫拉庫薩|锡拉库萨[Xi1 la1 ku4 sa4]
敘明	detailed accounting
敘永縣	Xuyong, a county in Luzhou City 瀘州市|泸州市[Lu2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
敘舊	to reminisce; to talk about former times
敘談	to chat
敘述	to relate (a story or information); to tell or talk about; to recount
敘述性	narrative
教	(bound form) to teach; to instruct; a religion
教主	founder or leader of a religion or sect; (fig.) revered figure
教儀	ordinance
教具	teaching aids; educational materials
教務	educational administration
教務室	school administration office
教務長	provost
教化	to enlighten; to civilize; to indoctrinate
教區	diocese; parish
教友	church member
教友大會	church conference
教友派	the Society of Friends; the Quakers
教員	teacher; instructor
教唆	to instigate; to incite; to abet
教坊	imperial bureau responsible for music, dance and court entertainments
教堂	church; chapel
教堂墓地	churchyard
教堂山	Chapel Hill, North Carolina
教壞	to misguide; to corrupt (sb)
教士	churchman; clergy
教子	to educate one's children; godson
教學	teaching; instruction
教學大綱	course syllabus; class curriculum
教學樓	school building; academic building
教學機構	educational organization
教學法	teaching method; pedagogy
教學相長	when you teach someone, both teacher and student will benefit
教學軟體	(Tw) educational software; courseware
教安	teach in peace (polite phrase to end a letter to a teacher)
教宗	pope
教宗座駕	popemobile
教官	military instructor
教室	classroom
教導	to instruct; to teach; guidance
教師	teacher
教師爺	master of martial arts, in former times often employed by a landlord to teach fighting skills and guard the house
教師節	Teachers' Day (September 10th in PRC and Confucius's birthday, September 28th in Taiwan)
教廷	the Papacy; the Vatican; the Holy See
教廷大使	an ambassador of the church; an Apostolic Nuncio (from the Vatican)
教徒	disciple; follower of a religion
教授	to teach (a subject)
教改	education reform (abbr. for 教育改革[jiao4 yu4 gai3 ge2])
教書	to work as a teacher; to teach (in a school)
教書匠	teacher (usually humorous, self-deprecating or derogatory)
教會	to show; to teach
教本	textbook
教材	teaching material
教案	lesson plan; teaching plan
教條	doctrine; dogma; creed
教條主義	dogmatism
教權	religious rule
教母	godmother
教民	adherent to a religion; convert
教法	teaching method; teachings; doctrine
教派	sect
教父	godfather
教理	doctrine (religion)
教皇	(Catholicism) pope; pontiff
教眾	(religion) believers; followers; adherents; the faithful
教研	teaching and research (abbr. for 教學研究|教学研究[jiao4 xue2 yan2 jiu1])
教研室	teaching and research office
教科文組織	UNESCO, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
教科書	textbook
教科書式	(neologism c. 2018) worthy of being used as a textbook example
教程	course of instruction (often used in book titles)
教練	to coach; to train
教練員	sports coach; training personnel
教練機	trainer (aircraft)
教義	creed; doctrine; teachings
教義和聖約	Doctrine and Covenants
教職員	teaching and administrative staff
教職員工	teaching and administrative staff
教職工	teaching and administrative staff
教育	to educate; to teach; education
教育委員會	school board
教育學	pedagogy
教育家	educationalist
教育工作者	educator
教育廳	(provincial) department of education
教育性	instructive; educational
教育界	academic world; academic circles; academia
教育背景	educational background
教育部	Ministry of Education
教育部長	Minister of Education; Director of Education Department
教育電視	Educational Television (Hong Kong)
教規	canon; religious rules
教訓	to provide guidance; to lecture sb; to upbraid
教誨	(literary) to instruct; to admonish; to counsel
教課	to teach class; to lecture
教輔	supplementary educational material (e.g. a practice workbook, exam preparation guide etc)
教長	dean; mullah; imam (Islam)
教鞭	teacher's pointer
教頭	sporting coach; military drill master (in Song times)
教養	to educate; to bring up; to nurture; upbringing; breeding; culture
教齡	years of teaching experience; teaching experience
敜	to fill up or cover up a hole
敝	my (polite); poor; ruined
敝屣	worn-out shoes; a worthless thing
敝屣尊榮	to care nothing for worldly fame and glory (idiom)
敝帚千金	lit. my worn-out broom, a thousand in gold (idiom); fig. sentimental value
敝帚自珍	to value the broom as one's own (idiom); to attach value to sth because it is one's own
敞	open to the view of all; spacious; to open wide
敞亮	bright and spacious
敞口	open-mouthed (jar etc); (of speech) freely; exposure (finance)
敞篷汽車	convertible (car)
敞篷車	a convertible; open-top car
敞車	open wagon; (railway) flatcar
敞開	to open wide; unrestrictedly
敞開兒	unrestrictedly
敢	to dare; daring; (polite) may I venture
敢不	(literary) how could one dare not ...?; how could I possibly fail to ...? (introducing a rhetorical question expressing willingness or obligation)
敢作敢為	(idiom) to stop at nothing; to dare to do anything
敢做敢當	daring to act and courageous enough to take responsibility for it
敢怒而不敢言	angry, but not daring to speak out (idiom); obliged to remain silent about one's resentment
敢情	actually; as it turns out; indeed
敢打敢衝	courageous and daring
敢於	to have the courage to do sth; to dare to; bold in
敢死隊	suicide squad; kamikaze unit
敢為	to dare to do
敢為人先	to dare to be first; to pioneer (idiom)
敢言	to be bold enough to speak out
敢達	Gundam, Japanese animation franchise
散	to scatter; to break up (a meeting etc); to disperse
散亂	in disorder; messy; Taiwan pr. [san4 luan4]
散亡	dispersed and lost
散件	spare parts; odds and ends
散佈	to disseminate
散佚	to be scattered and lost
散光	to diffuse light
散兵	loose and disorganized soldiers; stragglers; fig. a loner
散兵坑	foxhole (military)
散兵遊勇	lit. straggling and disbanded soldiers (idiom); fig. disorganized uncoordinated action
散出	to spill out
散列	to hash; hashing (computing)
散劑	powder medicine
散匪	scattered bandits
散場	(of a theater) to empty; (of a show) to end
散夥	to break up; to disband; to go one's separate ways
散夥飯	meal shared before a group goes its separate ways; farewell meal
散失	to squander; lost
散學	end of school
散客	FIT (free independent traveler); individual traveler (as opposed to one who travels with a group)
散射	(physics) to scatter
散居	(of a group of people) to live scattered over an area
散工	to release from work at the end of the day
散席	end of a banquet
散座	single seat (in theater); irregular passenger (in rickshaw)
散座兒	single seat (in theater); irregular passenger (in rickshaw)
散彈	shot (for a shotgun); canister shot
散彈槍	shotgun
散心	to drive away cares; to relieve boredom
散心解悶	to divert one's mind from boredom (idiom)
散悶	to divert oneself from melancholy
散戲	end of a show
散戶	individual (shareholder); the small investor
散打	mixed martial arts
散播	to spread; to disperse; to disseminate
散攤子	to break up; to disband
散文	(broadly) prose (as opposed to verse)
散文詩	prose poem
散景	bokeh (photography)
散曲	verse or song form from Yuan, Ming and Qing
散會	to disperse a meeting; to adjourn; finished
散束	scattering of bundle (of electrons in vacuum tube); debunching
散板	to fall apart; opera section in free rhythm
散架	to fall apart; exhaustion
散步	to take a walk; to go for a walk
散水	apron (sloping brickwork to disperse water)
散沙	scattered sand; fig. lacking in cohesion or organization
散漫	undisciplined; unorganized
散焦	to defocus; bokeh
散熱	to dissipate heat
散熱器	radiator (for heating a room); radiator (for cooling an engine)
散熱片	heat sink
散熱膏	thermal grease
散發	to distribute; to emit; to give off
散白	bulk baijiu (i.e. clear Chinese liquor) (abbr. for 散裝白酒|散装白酒[san3 zhuang1 bai2 jiu3])
散盡	to be totally dispersed (crowd)
散碎	in fragments
散粉	loose powder (makeup)
散職	sinecure
散腿褲	loose-fitting pants; Chinese-style pants
散落	to lie scattered (over an area); Taiwan pr. [san4 luo4]
散裝	loose goods; goods sold open; draft (of beer, as opposed to bottled)
散見	seen periodically
散記	random jottings; travel notes
散話	digression
散誕	free and unfettered
散逸	to disperse and escape; to dissipate
散逸層	exosphere
散錢	to scatter money; to give to charity
散開	to separate; to disperse
散養	free-range raising (of poultry, cattle etc)
散餌	groundbait
散體	free prose style
散點圖	scatter plot
敦	kindhearted; place name
敦促	to press; to urge; to hasten
敦倫	to strengthen moral ties between people
敦刻爾克	Dunkirk, port in northern France
敦化市	Dunhua, a county-level city in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
敦厚	genuine; honest and sincere
敦煌市	Dunhuang, a county-level city in Jiuquan City 酒泉市[Jiu3 quan2 Shi4], Gansu
敦煌石窟	Dunhuang caves in Gansu; refers to Mogao caves 莫高石窟[Mo4 gao1 shi2 ku1]
敦睦	to promote friendly relations
敦豪	DHL, international courier and logistics group
敧	to pick up thing with chopsticks or pincers.
敪	to weigh; to cut; to come without being invited
敫	bright; glittery; Taiwan pr. [jiao4]
敬	(bound form) respectful; to respect; to offer politely
敬上	yours truly; yours sincerely (at the end of a letter)
敬仰	to revere; highly esteemed
敬佩	to esteem; to admire
敬備	to respectfully offer
敬告	to tell respectfully; to announce reverentially
敬啟	respectful closing to a letter
敬啟者	Dear Sirs; To Whom It May Concern
敬奉	to worship piously; to present; to dedicate
敬悉	(honorific) revered news
敬惜字紙	to treasure written material as a cultural resource (idiom)
敬意	respect; esteem; high regard
敬愛	to respect and love; to hold in high esteem
敬拜	to worship
敬服	deference; esteem; to admire
敬業	dedicated to one's work
敬業樂群	diligent and sociable (idiom); meticulous in work and dealing cheerfully with one's colleagues
敬煙	to offer a cigarette (to a guest)
敬畏	to revere
敬祝	to offer humbly (written at the end of letter to sb of higher status); your humble servant
敬神	to respect a deity; to pray to a God
敬禮	to salute; salute
敬稱	to address or refer to (sb) respectfully (as ...)
敬老	to respect the elderly
敬老尊賢	to respect the wise and venerate the worthy (idiom); to honor the great and the good
敬老席	priority seating for the aged (on buses etc)
敬老院	senior citizens' home; old folks' home
敬而遠之	to show respect from a distance (idiom)
敬若神明	to hold sb in the same regard as one would a god (idiom)
敬茶	to serve tea (to guests)
敬虔	devout
敬詞	term of respect; polite expression
敬語	honorific (e.g. in grammar of oriental languages)
敬請	please (do sth) (deferential form)
敬謝不敏	please excuse me for not complying; to politely decline
敬賀	to offer one's congratulations (formal)
敬賢禮士	(idiom) to respect people of virtue and show courtesy to scholars
敬贈	to present respectfully; with (sb's) compliments; complimentary
敬辭	term of respect; polite expression
敬酒	to toast; to propose a toast
敬酒不吃吃罰酒	lit. to refuse a toast only to be forced to drink a forfeit (idiom)
敬重	to respect deeply; to revere; to esteem
敬鬼神而遠之	to respect Gods and demons from a distance (idiom); to remain at a respectful distance
敱	able (in administrating); to govern forcefully
敲	to hit; to strike; to tap
敲中背	to receive oral sex from a prostitute
敲入	to key in; to input
敲喪鐘	a knell
敲大背	to have sex with a prostitute
敲定	to come to a decision; to fix on (a date etc); to determine
敲小背	to be masturbated by a prostitute
敲山震虎	a deliberate show of strength as a warning
敲打	to beat sb; to beat (a drum)
敲打鑼鼓	lit. to beat a gong; fig. to irritate sb; a provocation
敲擊	to pound; to rap
敲敲打打	to make a continual banging sound; (fig.) to provoke with words
敲榨	to press (fruit)
敲碗	(neologism) (slang) to impatiently await
敲竹槓	extortion by taking advantage of sb's weakness
敲背	back-knocking massage
敲詐	to rip off; to extort (money); extortion
敲詐勒索	extortion and blackmail (idiom)
敲詐罪	extortion
敲邊鼓	to back sb up; to support sb in an argument
敲釘鑽腳	to make doubly sure (idiom)
敲鐘	to sound a bell; (of a clock) to chime
敲鑼	to beat a gong
敲鑼邊兒	to strike the edge of a gong
敲門	to knock on a door
敲門磚	lit. a brick as a door knocker (idiom); fig. a temporary expedient
敲開	to get sth open by tapping or striking it
敲響	to sound a bell; to raise the alarm
整	(bound form) whole; complete; entire; (before a measure word) whole; (before or after number + measure word) exactly
整人	(coll.) (malicious) to make things difficult for sb; (mischievous) to play a prank on sb
整併	to merge; to consolidate; consolidation
整修	to repair; to refurbish; to renovate
整個	whole; entire; total
整倍數	integer multiple
整備	preparedness; to bring sth to a state of readiness
整合	to conform; to integrate
整地	to prepare the soil (agriculture)
整型	(computing) integer
整域	integral domain (abstract algebra)
整夜	the whole night; all through the night
整天	all day long; whole day
整套	entire set
整妝	to touch up one's makeup
整容	plastic surgery
整密	meticulous; painstaking
整年累月	month after month, year after year; year in, year out
整建	to restore a damaged or aging structure; to renovate
整形	shaping; reshaping
整形外科	plastic surgery; orthopedics
整形外科醫生	plastic surgeon
整改	to reform; to rectify and improve
整整	whole; full
整整齊齊	neat and tidy
整數	whole number; integer (math.); round figure
整數倍數	integral multiple
整數集合	(math.) the set of integers
整日	all day long; the whole day
整條	entire; whole (fish, road etc)
整治	to bring under control; to regulate; to restore to good condition
整活	(Internet slang) to stage humorous antics or creative stunts (esp. for online audiences)
整流	to rectify (alternating current to direct current)
整流器	rectifier (transforming alternating electric current to direct current)
整流罩	fairing
整潔	neatly; tidy
整理	to arrange; to tidy up; to sort out
整環	integral domain (abstract algebra)
整肅	strict; serious; solemn
整脊學	chiropractic
整蠱	(slang) to play a prank on (sb)
整裝	to equip; to fit out; to get ready (for a journey)
整裝待發	to get ready (for a journey); ready and waiting
整訓	to drill troops; to build up and train
整除	to divide exactly without remainder (in integer arithmetic)
整除數	(math.) factor; exact divisor
整隊	to dress (troops); to line up (to arrange in a straight line)
整頓	to tidy up; to reorganize; to consolidate
整風	Rectification or Rectifying incorrect work styles, Maoist slogan
整風運動	Rectification campaign; political purge
整飭	(literary) to put in good order; to make shipshape
整體	whole; entirety; overall; whole; general; on the whole; overall
整體數位服務網路	Integrated Service Digital Network; ISDN
整體服務數位網路	ISDN (integrated services digital network)
整點	time of day exactly on the hour (i.e. 12:00, 1:00 etc)
整齊	orderly; neat; even
整齊劃一	to be adjusted to uniformity (usually of weights and measures) (idiom)
敵	(bound form) enemy; (bound form) to be a match for; to rival
敵人	enemy
敵佔區	enemy occupied territory
敵國	enemy country
敵地	enemy territory
敵基督	Antichrist
敵害	pest; vermin; animal that is harmful to crops or to another species
敵將	enemy general; the opposing side's commander
敵對	hostile; enemy (factions); combative
敵對性	hostility; antagonism; adversarial; hostile
敵後	(military) the enemy's rear; behind enemy lines
敵情	the situation of the enemy positions; intelligence about the enemy
敵意	enmity; hostility
敵愾	hatred felt toward one's enemies
敵我	the enemy and us
敵我矛盾	contradictions between ourselves and the enemy
敵手	opponent; substantial adversary; worthy match
敵探	enemy spy
敵敵畏	(loanword) DDVP, aka dichlorvos (an organophosphate used as an insecticide)
敵方	enemy
敵機	enemy plane
敵檔	rival productions (of the same opera in neighboring theaters)
敵殺死	Decis (insecticide brand)
敵營	enemy camp
敵特	enemy (agents); (class) enemy
敵特分子	enemy agent; spy (esp. from a hostile foreign power)
敵百蟲	trichlorfon (C4H8Cl3O4P), organophosphate insecticide; also called dipterex
敵眾我寡	multitude of enemies, few friends (idiom from Mencius)
敵臺	defensive tower; lookout tower; enemy radio station
敵視	hostile; malevolence; antagonism
敵軍	enemy troops; hostile forces
敵陣	the enemy ranks
敷	to spread; to lay out; to apply (powder, ointment etc)
敷布	medical dressing; bandage
敷料	medical dressing
敷湯藥	(coll.) to pay compensation for medical expenses
敷演	to elaborate (on a theme); to expound (the meaning of the classics)
敷粉	to sprinkle powder; a dusting
敷衍	to elaborate (on a theme); to expound (the classics); perfunctory
敷衍了事	(idiom) to do things half-heartedly; to merely go through the motions
敷衍塞責	(idiom) to skimp on the job; to work half-heartedly; not to take the job seriously
敷裹	medical dressing
敷設	to lay; to spread out
敷貼	to smear; to apply glue or ointment to a surface
敷陳	to give an orderly account; a thorough narrative
數	to count; to count as; to regard as; to enumerate; to list
數一數二	(idiom) reckoned to be best or second best; one of the very best
數不上	not to deserve to be mentioned; not to qualify; below par
數不勝數	(idiom) too many to count; innumerable
數不清	countless; innumerable
數不盡	countless
數不過來	can't manage to count; too many to count
數九	nine periods of nine days each after winter solstice, the coldest time of the year
數九天	nine periods of nine days each after winter solstice, the coldest time of the year
數九寒天	nine periods of nine days each after winter solstice, the coldest time of the year
數以億計	countless; innumerable
數以千計	thousands (of sth)
數以百計	hundreds of
數以萬計	tens of thousands; numerous
數伏	to mark the start of the hottest period of the year, known as 三伏天[san1 fu2 tian1]
數位	digit; (Tw) digital
數位信號	digital signal
數位化	(Tw) to digitize
數位網路	digital network
數位貨幣	digital currency (Tw)
數來寶	folk theater consisting of recitation accompanied by clapper board rhythm
數值	numerical value
數值分析	numerical analysis (math.)
數值解	numerical solution
數典忘祖	to recount history but omit one's ancestors (idiom); to forget one's roots
數出	to count out (a sum of money etc)
數列	sequence of numbers; numerical series
數十億	several billion
數周	several weeks; also written 數週|数周
數域	number field (math.); subfield of the field of complex numbers
數字	numeral; digit; number
數字信號	digital signal
數字分頻	digital frequency sharing
數字化	to digitize
數字命理學	numerology
數字孿生	digital twin
數字時鐘	digital clock
數字版權管理	Digital Rights Management (DRM)
數字用戶線路	digital subscriber line (DSL)
數字網	digital network
數字貨幣	digital currency
數字通信	digital communications
數字遊民	digital nomad
數字鐘	digital clock
數字電視	digital television
數字電路	digital circuit
數學	mathematics
數學公式	formula
數學分析	analysis (branch of mathematics)
數學家	mathematician
數學模型	mathematical model
數學物理	mathematical physics
數學物理學	mathematical physics
數小時	several hours
數年	several years; many years
數得上	to be considered as outstanding or special; to be reckoned with
數得著	to be considered outstanding or special; to be reckoned with; notable
數念	to enumerate one by one
數控	numerical control (machining)
數控機床	computer numerical control machine tool (CNC machine tool)
數據	data
數據中心	(computing) data center
數據介面	data interface
數據傳輸	data transmission
數據壓縮	data compression
數據庫	(computing) database
數據庫軟件	database software
數據手冊	datasheet
數據挖掘	data mining
數據接口	data interface
數據機	modem (Tw)
數據段	data segment
數據流	data stream; data flow
數據組	dataset
數據結構	(computing) data structure
數據網絡	data network
數據線	data cable
數據總線	data bus (computer)
數據處理	data processing
數據通信	data communication
數據鏈路	data link
數據鏈路層	data link layer
數據鏈路連接標識	data link connection identifier (DLCI)
數據集	dataset
數數	to count; to reckon
數月	several months
數模	digital-to-analog; abbr. for 數字到模擬|数字到模拟
數模轉換器	digital-to-analog converter (DAC)
數法	method of counting (e.g. decimal or Roman numbers)
數清	to count; to enumerate exactly
數獨	sudoku (puzzle game)
數珠	rosary; prayer beads
數珠念佛	to count one's prayer beads and chant Buddha's name (idiom)
數理	mathematical sciences
數理化	mathematics, physics and chemistry (abbr. for 數學|数学[shu4 xue2] + 物理[wu4 li3] + 化學|化学[hua4 xue2])
數理統計	mathematical statistics
數理邏輯	mathematical logic; symbolic logic
數百	several hundred
數百萬	several million
數目	amount; number
數目字	numeral; digit; number
數碼	number; numerals; figures
數碼化	to digitize
數碼掃描	a digital scan
數碼沖印	digital printing
數碼港	Cyberport, a technology and commercial complex in Pok Fu Lam, Hong Kong
數碼照相機	digital camera
數碼相機	digital camera
數碼貨幣	digital currency
數碼通	SmarTone-Vodafone (Hong Kong and Macau company)
數秒	to count the number of seconds (between two events)
數種	numerous types; many kinds
數組	(computing) array
數萬	several tens of thousands; many thousand
數落	to enumerate sb's shortcomings; to criticize; to scold
數見不鮮	a common occurrence (idiom)
數詞	numeral
數論	number theory (math.)
數軸	number line
數週	several weeks
數量	amount; quantity; quantitative; (math.) scalar quantity
數量分析	quantitative analysis
數量積	scalar product (of vectors)
數量級	(math.) order of magnitude
數量詞	numeral-classifier compound (e.g. 一次[yi1 ci4], 三套[san1 tao4], 五本[wu3 ben3] etc)
數額	amount; sum of money; fixed number
數黃道黑	to enumerate what is black and yellow (idiom); to criticize sb behind his back to incite quarrels
數黑論白	to enumerate what is black and yellow (idiom); to criticize sb behind his back to incite quarrels
數黑論黃	to enumerate what is black and yellow (idiom); to criticize sb behind his back to incite quarrels
數點	to count; to itemize
敹	keep tidy and repaired; sew
敻	surname Xiong
敿	tie up (laces)
斁	to be weary of
斂	(literary) to hold back; (literary) to restrain; to control (oneself)
斂巴	(dialect) to gather up; to throw together
斂步	(literary) to slow down one's steps; to come to a halt
斂衽	old-fashioned women's obeisance; Taiwan pr. [lian4 ren4]
斂財	to accumulate wealth; to rake in money
斂跡	to refrain; to give up evil (temporarily); to cover one's traces
斂錢	to collect money; to raise funds (for charity)
斃	to die; to shoot dead; to reject
斃命	to meet violent death; to get killed
斄	ancient place name (a Han dynasty town in Shaanxi)
文	language; culture; writing
文不加點	to write a flawless essay in one go (idiom)
文不對題	irrelevant; beside the point
文人	cultivated individual; scholar; literati
文人相輕	scholars tend to disparage one another (idiom)
文以載道	words of truth; moral expressed in words
文件	document; file
文件大小	file size
文件夾	folder; file (paper)
文件服務器	file server
文件格式	file format
文具	stationery
文具商	stationer
文具店	stationery store
文創	blending of cultural heritage elements with creative modern designs to produce innovative products and services (often used attributively, as in 文創商品|文创商品[wen2 chuang4 shang1 pin3]) (abbr. for 文化創意|文化创意[wen2 hua4 chuang4 yi4])
文創商品	product that incorporates traditional culture or local elements with innovative design ideas
文創產業	creative industries (design, music, publishing etc) (abbr. for 文化創意產業|文化创意产业[wen2 hua4 chuang4 yi4 chan3 ye4])
文化	culture; civilization; cultural
文化交流	cultural exchange
文化傳統	cultural tradition
文化史	cultural history
文化和旅遊部	(PRC) Ministry of Culture and Tourism
文化圈	sphere of cultural influence
文化城	city of culture
文化大革命	Cultural Revolution (1966-1976)
文化宮	cultural palace
文化層	cultural layer (in an archaeological dig)
文化水平	educational level
文化沙漠	cultural desert
文化熱	cultural fever; cultural craze
文化荒漠	cultural desert
文化衝擊	culture shock
文化遺產	cultural heritage
文化障礙	cultural barrier
文史	literature and history
文告	written statement; proclamation; announcement
文員	office worker; clerk
文在寅	Moon Jae-in (1953-), Korean politician and human rights lawyer, president of Korea from 2017
文墨	writing; culture
文壇	literary circles
文士	literati; scholar
文天祥	Wen Tianxiang (1236-1283), Song dynasty politician and poet, folk hero in resisting Mongol invasion in Jiangxi in 1275
文如其人	the writing style mirrors the writer (idiom)
文娛	cultural recreation; entertainment
文字	character; script; writing
文字學	philology
文字學家	expert on writing systems
文字改革	reform of the writing system
文字檔	text file
文字獄	literary inquisition
文字處理	word processing
文學	literature
文學博士	Doctor of Letters
文學史	history of literature
文學士	Bachelor of Arts; B.A.; BA
文學家	writer; man of letters
文學巨匠	literary master
文安縣	Wen'an, a county in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
文宗	Wenzong Emperor, reign name of Yuan Dynasty emperor Tugh Temür (1304-1332), reigned 1328-1332
文官	civil official
文宣	promotional material; propaganda
文宣部	propaganda department
文山區	Wenshan District in Taipei 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
文山壯族苗族自治州	Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
文山市	Wenshan, a county-level city in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
文山會海	a mountain of paperwork and a sea of meetings (idiom)
文山線	Taipei Metro Wenshan Line (known as the Muzha Line 木柵線|木栅线[Mu4 zha4 xian4] prior to October 8, 2009)
文峰區	Wenfeng, a district of Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
文庫	collection of documents; library; book series
文康	Wen Kang (mid-19th century), Manchu-born novelist, author of The Gallant Maid 兒女英雄傳|儿女英雄传[Er2 nu:3 Ying1 xiong2 Zhuan4]
文康活動	cultural and recreational activities (Tw)
文弱書生	(idiom) frail scholar
文彙報	Wen Wei Po (Hong Kong newspaper); Wenhui News (Shanghai newspaper)
文徵明	Wen Zhengming (1470-1559), Ming painter, one of Four great southern talents of the Ming 江南四大才子
文思	the train of thought in writing
文愛	(slang) to engage in mutual sexual arousal through written messages (e.g. text, chat); text-based cybersex
文憑	diploma
文成縣	Wencheng, a county in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
文戲	(opera, drama, film) non-action scene
文房四寶	Four Treasures of the Study, namely 筆|笔[bi3], 墨[mo4], 紙|纸[zhi3] and 硯|砚[yan4]
文抄公	plagiarist
文摘	digest (of literature); to make a digest (of data); summary
文攻武嚇	(of a nation) to denounce and threaten with military force; to try to coerce
文教	culture and education
文旅	cultural tourism
文旅部	(PRC) Ministry of Culture and Tourism (abbr. for 文化和旅遊部|文化和旅游部[Wen2 hua4 he2 Lu:3 you2 bu4])
文旦	pomelo
文昌	Wenchang City, Hainan
文昌市	Wenchang City, Hainan
文昌魚	lancelet (Branchiostoma lanceolatum), a primitive fish
文明	civilized; civilization; culture
文明化	civilize
文明小史	Short History of Civilization, late Qing novel by Li Boyuan 李伯元[Li3 Bo2 yuan2] or Li Baojia 李寶嘉|李宝嘉[Li3 Bao3 jia1] describing the turmoil after the 1900 Eight-Nation Alliance 八國聯軍|八国联军[Ba1 guo2 Lian2 jun1]
文明病	lifestyle diseases
文曲星	constellation governing scholarship and examinations; (fig.) renowned literary genius
文書	document; official correspondence; secretary
文書處理	paperwork; clerical tasks; (Tw) word processing
文本	a text (article, script, contract etc)
文本框	(computing) text box
文本編輯器	text editor
文案	(newspapers etc) copy; copywriter; (office etc) paperwork
文檔	(computer) file; document; documentation
文檔對象模型	Document Object Model (DOM)
文武	civil and military
文武合一	civilians and the military (working) hand in hand (idiom)
文武百官	civil and military officials
文武雙全	well versed in letters and military technology (idiom); fine scholar and soldier
文殊	Manjushri, the Bodhisattva of keen awareness
文殊師利菩薩	Manjushri, the Bodhisattva of keen awareness
文殊菩薩	Manjushri, the Bodhisattva of keen awareness
文氣	the impact of a piece of writing on the reader; gentle; refined
文水縣	Wenshui, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
文江學海	river of literacy, sea of learning (idiom); ars longa, vita brevis
文治武功	political and military achievements (idiom)
文法	grammar
文火	small flame (when cooking, simmering etc)
文牒	official document
文牘	paperwork; official documents and letters; (old) secretary
文牘主義	red tape
文物	cultural relic; historical relic
文物徑	heritage trail
文獻	reference material (used in scholarly study)
文獻學	Philology; Historical Linguistics
文玩	object valued for aesthetic appreciation; objet d'art
文理	arts and sciences
文登區	Wendeng, a district of Weihai City 威海市[Wei1 hai3 Shi4], Shandong
文盲	illiterate
文石	aragonite (geology)
文科	liberal arts; humanities
文科學士	Bachelor of Arts B.A.
文秘	secretary
文種	Wen Zhong (-467 BC), adviser to the state of Yue during Spring and Autumn period
文稿	manuscript; article (in newspaper); draft
文章	article; essay; literary works
文童	a person studying for the imperial examinations
文竹	setose asparagus
文筆	writings; writing style
文約	contract; written agreement
文縐縐	bookish; genteel; erudite
文縣	Wen County or Wenxian, a county in Longnan City 隴南市|陇南市[Long3 nan2 Shi4], Gansu
文聖區	Wensheng, a district of Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
文聯	abbr. for 中國文學藝術界聯合會|中国文学艺术界联合会, China Federation of Literary and Art Circles (CFLAC)
文職	civilian post (as opposed to military); civil service; administration
文胸	bra
文臣	civilian court official (in former times)
文苑	the literary world
文苑英華	Finest Blossoms in the Garden of Literature, Song dynasty collection of poetry, odes, songs and writings compiled during 982-986 under Li Fang 李昉[Li3 Fang3], Xu Xuan 徐鉉|徐铉[Xu2 Xuan4], Song Bai 宋白[Song4 Bai2] and Su Yijian 蘇易簡|苏易简[Su1 Yi4 jian3], 1000 scrolls
文萊	Brunei
文萊達魯薩蘭國	Brunei Darussalam
文藝	literature and art
文藝作品	literary work; art work
文藝兵	PLA military personnel who specialize in literary or artistic pursuits
文藝復興	the Renaissance
文藝演出	theatrical performance
文號	document identifier code (typically including an abbreviation for the name of the issuing organization, the date and a serial number)
文蛤	clam; bivalve mollusk, many spp.
文言	Classical Chinese
文言文	Classical Chinese writing
文謅謅	bookish; genteel; erudite
文讀	literary (rather than colloquial) pronunciation of a Chinese character
文豪	literary giant; great writer; eminent writer
文責自負	the author takes sole responsibility for the views expressed here (disclaimer)
文質彬彬	refined in manner; gentle
文身	to tattoo; tattoo
文辭	language; use of words; phraseology; articles; essays; writing
文過飾非	(idiom) to cover up one's faults; to whitewash
文選	compilation; selected works
文部省	Ministry of Education, Science and Culture (Japan), ceased to exist in 2001 when it was merged with another ministry
文采	literary talent; literary grace; rich and bright colors
文錦渡	Man Kam To (place in Hong Kong)
文雅	elegant; refined
文集	collected works
文青	young person who adopts an outwardly artistic or intellectual style (abbr. for 文藝青年|文艺青年[wen2 yi4 qing1 nian2])
文靜	(of a person's manner or character) gentle and quiet
文面	to tattoo the face; face tattoo; to brand (ancient punishment)
文革	Cultural Revolution (1966-76) (abbr. for 文化大革命[Wen2 hua4 Da4 ge2 ming4])
文風	writing style; (used with 鼎盛[ding3 sheng4]) cultural activity
文飾	to polish a text; rhetoric; ornate language
文體	genre of writing; literary form; style
文鬚雀	(bird species of China) bearded reedling (Panurus biarmicus)
斐	phonetic fei or fi; (literary) rich with literary elegance
斐波那契	Leonardo Fibonacci (c. 1170-1250), Italian mathematician
斐濟	Fiji, a country in the southwest Pacific Ocean
斐然	(literary) of great literary talent
斐理伯	Philip, one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus (Catholic transliteration)
斐理伯書	Epistle of St Paul to the Philippians
斐迪南	Ferdinand (name)
斑	spot; colored patch; stripe
斑剝	mottled and peeling off in places
斑喉希鶥	(bird species of China) bar-throated minla (Actinodura strigula)
斑嘴鴨	(bird species of China) eastern spot-billed duck (Anas zonorhyncha)
斑嘴鵜鶘	(bird species of China) spot-billed pelican (Pelecanus philippensis)
斑塊	patch; spot; (medicine) plaque
斑姬啄木鳥	(bird species of China) speckled piculet (Picumnus innominatus)
斑姬鶲	(bird species of China) European pied flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca)
斑尾塍鷸	(bird species of China) bar-tailed godwit (Limosa lapponica)
斑尾林鴿	(bird species of China) common wood pigeon (Columba palumbus)
斑尾榛雞	(bird species of China) Chinese grouse (Tetrastes sewerzowi)
斑尾鵑鳩	(bird species of China) barred cuckoo-dove (Macropygia unchall)
斑岩	porphyry (geology)
斑文鳥	(bird species of China) scaly-breasted munia (Lonchura punctulata)
斑斑	full of stains or spots
斑斕	gorgeous; brightly colored; multicolored
斑椋鳥	(bird species of China) Indian pied myna (Gracupica contra)
斑海豹	spotted seal (Phoca largha)
斑疹傷寒	typhus
斑疹熱	spotted fever
斑痕	stain; mark; scar; (fig.) psychological scar; stain on one's reputation
斑白	grizzled; graying
斑禿	spot baldness (alopecia areata)
斑竹	mottled bamboo
斑紋	stripe; streak
斑羚	Nemorhaedus goral, a species of antelope found in Xinjiang
斑翅山鶉	(bird species of China) Daurian partridge (Perdix dauurica)
斑翅擬蠟嘴雀	(bird species of China) spot-winged grosbeak (Mycerobas melanozanthos)
斑翅朱雀	(bird species of China) three-banded rosefinch (Carpodacus trifasciatus)
斑翅椋鳥	(bird species of China) spot-winged starling (Saroglossa spilopterus)
斑翅鳳頭鵑	(bird species of China) Jacobin cuckoo; pied cuckoo (Clamator jacobinus)
斑翅鷯鶥	(bird species of China) bar-winged wren-babbler (Spelaeornis troglodytoides)
斑背噪鶥	(bird species of China) barred laughingthrush (Ianthocincla lunulata)
斑背大尾鶯	(bird species of China) marsh grassbird (Helopsaltes pryeri)
斑背潛鴨	(bird species of China) greater scaup (Aythya marila)
斑背燕尾	(bird species of China) spotted forktail (Enicurus maculatus)
斑胸噪鶥	(bird species of China) spot-breasted laughingthrush (Garrulax merulinus)
斑胸濱鷸	(bird species of China) pectoral sandpiper (Calidris melanotos)
斑胸田雞	(bird species of China) spotted crake (Porzana porzana)
斑胸短翅鶯	(bird species of China) spotted bush warbler (Locustella thoracica)
斑胸鉤嘴鶥	(bird species of China) black-streaked scimitar babbler (Erythrogenys gravivox)
斑脅姬鶥	(bird species of China) Himalayan cutia (Cutia nipalensis)
斑脅田雞	(bird species of China) band-bellied crake (Zapornia paykullii)
斑腰燕	(bird species of China) striated swallow (Cecropis striolata)
斑臉海番鴨	(bird species of China) Stejneger's scoter (Melanitta stejnegeri)
斑頭大翠鳥	(bird species of China) Blyth's kingfisher (Alcedo hercules)
斑頭綠擬啄木鳥	(bird species of China) lineated barbet (Psilopogon lineatus)
斑頭雁	(bird species of China) bar-headed goose (Anser indicus)
斑頭鵂鶹	(bird species of China) Asian barred owlet (Glaucidium cuculoides)
斑頸穗鶥	(bird species of China) spot-necked babbler (Stachyris strialata)
斑馬	zebra
斑馬線	crosswalk; zebra crossing
斑馬魚	zebrafish
斑駁	mottled; motley
斑駮陸離	variegated
斑魚狗	(bird species of China) pied kingfisher (Ceryle rudis)
斑魢	Girella punctata (species of fish)
斑鱉	Yangtze giant soft-shell turtle (Rafetus swinhoei), a critically endangered species
斑鱧	snakehead mullet; Channa maculata
斑鳩	turtledove
斑鶇	(bird species of China) dusky thrush (Turdus eunomus)
斑鶲	(bird species of China) spotted flycatcher (Muscicapa striata)
斑鷺	(bird species of China) pied heron (Egretta picata)
斑點	spot; stain; speckle
斑點狗	Dalmatian (dog breed)
斒	variegated; striped; marbled
斕	used in 斑斕|斑斓[ban1 lan2]
斗	dry measure for grain equal to ten 升[sheng1] or one-tenth of a 石[dan4]
斗內	(Tw) (neologism) (Internet slang) to send money to a live streamer (to get a specific response or just to sponsor) (loanword from "donate")
斗六	Douliu or Touliu city in Yunlin county 雲林縣|云林县[Yun2 lin2 xian4], Taiwan
斗六市	Douliu or Touliu city in Yunlin county 雲林縣|云林县[Yun2 lin2 xian4], Taiwan
斗大	huge
斗室	very small room; tiny, cramped space
斗拱	dougong – an interlocking wooden bracket system between the top of a column and a crossbeam, used in traditional Chinese architecture to support overhanging roofs, composed of blocks and arms fitted together without nails
斗柄	handle of the Big Dipper
斗牛	Big Dipper and Altair (astronomy)
斗笠	conical bamboo hat
斗筲	an ancient bamboo container; narrow-mindedness
斗筲之人	a small-minded person; a bean-counter
斗筲之器	person narrow-minded and shortsighted
斗筲之材	person of limited capacity
斗篷	cloak; mantle
斗膽	(courteous) to be so bold as to
斗車	hopper car; wheelbarrow
斗轉星移	lit. the Big Dipper 北斗星[Bei3 dou3 xing1] has turned and the stars have moved
斗酒隻雞	lit. a chicken and a bottle of wine (idiom); fig. ready to make an offering to the deceased, or to entertain guests
斗門區	Doumen, a district of Zhuhai City 珠海市[Zhu1 hai3 Shi4], Guangdong
料	material; stuff; grain
料中	to suppose correctly
料事如神	to prophesy with supernatural accuracy (idiom)
料件	materials and parts; components
料件子活	piecework
料倉	granary; storehouse
料到	to foresee; to anticipate
料及	to anticipate; forecast; expectation
料器	glassware; colored glass household vessel
料堆	to stockpile
料子	material
料定	certain; to know for sure
料峭	spring chill in the air; cold
料度	to estimate; to assess
料想	to expect; to presume; to think (sth is likely)
料持	to arrange; to manage; to attend to
料斗	cattle feeder; hopper (wicker basket)
料汁	seasoning liquid; prepared sauce mixture; dressing
料理	to arrange; to handle; to cook
料理店	restaurant
料號	part number; material code
料豆兒	cooked black soybean as animal fodder
料酒	cooking wine
料頭	remainder of cloth; scraps
斛	ancient measuring vessel; fifty liters
斜	inclined; slanting; oblique
斜交	bevel; oblique
斜倚	to recline
斜切鋸	miter saw
斜坡	slope; incline
斜塔	leaning tower
斜射球	a sliced ball (tennis or table tennis)
斜對	catty-corner; to be diagonally opposite to
斜度	slope; gradient; inclination
斜徑	sloping path
斜愣眼	to squint
斜投影	oblique projection
斜方型	trapezium (geometry)
斜方肌	trapezius muscle (of the upper back and neck)
斜槓	slash; forward slash (punctuation mark)
斜槓青年	young person who pursues multiple careers simultaneously; a young slashie
斜率	slope
斜眼	to look askance; cross or wall-eyed
斜眼看	to look askance
斜睨	to cast sidelong glances at sb
斜管麵	penne pasta
斜紋	(textiles) twill
斜紋織	twill weave
斜線	oblique line; slash (symbol)
斜線號	slash (punct.); forward slash (computing); virgule
斜肌	diagonal muscle
斜視	a squint; sideways glance; to look askance
斜角	bevel angle; oblique angle
斜躺	to recline
斜軸	oblique axes (math.)
斜邊	sloping side; (geometry) hypotenuse
斜鉤	(downwards-right concave hooked character stroke)
斜長石	plagioclase (rock-forming mineral, type of feldspar)
斜陽	setting sun
斜靠	to recline
斜面	inclined plane
斜體	italics; slanting typeface
斜體字	italics
斝	small jade cup with ears
斞	dry measure equivalent to 16 斗[dou3] or 160 liters
斟	to pour; to deliberate
斟酌	to consider; to deliberate; to fill up a cup to the brim
斟酌字句	to measure one's words
斟酌決定權	discretionary power
斟酒	to pour wine or liquor
斠	(old) instrument to even out the grain in a measuring vessel
斡	to turn
斡旋	to mediate (a conflict etc)
斢	(dialect) to exchange; to replace
斤	catty; (PRC) weight equal to 500 g; (Tw) weight equal to 600 g
斤兩	weight; (fig.) importance
斤斤計較	to haggle over every ounce; (fig.) to fuss over minor matters
斥	to blame; to reprove; to reprimand
斥候	to reconnoiter; to scout; scout
斥力	repulsion (in electrostatics); repulsive force
斥罵	to scold
斥責	to lash out; to reprimand
斥資	to spend; to allocate funds
斥退	to dismiss (from a post); to expel from school
斥鹵	(literary) salt-affected land
斧	hatchet
斧子	axe; hatchet
斧正	(polite) please amend my writing
斧鉞之誅	to die by battle-ax (idiom); to be executed
斧鉞湯鑊	battle-ax and boiling cauldron (idiom); facing torture and execution
斧頭	ax; hatchet
斨	axe
斫	to chop; to hack; to carve wood
斫喪	to ravage; to devastate
斫營	to attack a camp
斫畬	(literary) slash-and-burn agriculture
斫白	to strip bark
斬	to behead (as form of capital punishment); to chop
斬斷	to cut off; to chop sth in half
斬殺	to behead
斬殺線	(gaming) kill threshold; the critical health point cutoff at which an enemy can be finished off immediately
斬獲	to kill or capture (in battle)
斬眼	to blink (literary)
斬草除根	to cut weeds and eliminate the roots (idiom); to destroy root and branch
斬釘截鐵	(lit.) to chop the nail and slice the iron (idiom)
斬首	to behead; to decapitate
斬首行動	(military) decapitation strike
斮	cut off
斯	Slovakia; Slovak; abbr. for 斯洛伐克[Si1 luo4 fa2 ke4]
斯佩林	Spelling (e.g. Spelling Entertainment Group)
斯佩羅	(surname) Spero
斯佩耳特小麥	spelt (Triticum spelta) (loanword)
斯克里亞賓	Alexander Scriabin (1872-1915), Russian composer and pianist
斯卡伯勒礁	Scarborough Shoal (Philippines' name for Huangyan Island)
斯台普斯	Staples (Center), sports arena in Los Angeles
斯哥特	Scott (name)
斯圖加特	Stuttgart, city in southwest Germany and capital of Baden-Württemberg 巴登－符騰堡州|巴登－符腾堡州[Ba1 deng1 Fu2 teng2 bao3 zhou1]
斯坦利	Stanley (name)
斯坦因	Stein (name)
斯坦福	Stanford or Stamford (name of various people, places and organizations, notably Stanford University)
斯坦福·萊佛士	Stamford Raffles (1781-1826), British statesman and founder of the city of Singapore
斯坦福大學	Stanford University
斯坦貝克	John Steinbeck (1902-1968), US novelist
斯坦頓	Stanton (name)
斯堪地納維亞	Scandinavia (Tw)
斯堪的納維亞	Scandinavia
斯塔西	Stacy (name)
斯多葛主義	Stoicism
斯大林	Joseph Stalin (1879-1953), Soviet dictator
斯大林主義	Stalinism
斯大林格勒	Stalingrad, former name of Volvograd 伏爾加格勒|伏尔加格勒 (1925-1961)
斯大林格勒戰役	Battle of Stalingrad (1942-1943), decisive battle of Second World War and one of the bloodiest battles in history, when the Germans failed to take Stalingrad, were then trapped and destroyed by Soviet forces
斯大林格勒會戰	Battle of Stalingrad (1942-1943); also called 斯大林格勒戰役|斯大林格勒战役
斯威士蘭	Eswatini (formerly Swaziland)
斯密	Smith (name); also rendered as 史密斯
斯密約瑟	Joseph Smith, Jr. (1805-1844), founder of the Latter Day Saint movement
斯巴達	Sparta
斯巴魯	Subaru
斯帕斯基	Spassky (name)
斯德哥爾摩	Stockholm, capital of Sweden
斯徹達爾	Stjørdal (city in Trøndelag, Norway)
斯托納	(surname) Stoner
斯托肯立石圈	Stonehenge stone circle
斯拉夫	Slavic
斯拉夫語	Slavic language
斯捷潘	Stepan or Stefan (name)
斯摩稜斯克	Smolensk (Russian city)
斯文	refined; educate; cultured
斯文·海定	Sven Hedin (1865-1952), famous Swedish adventurer and archaeologist, whose 1894-1900 Central Asian expeditions uncovered Kroraina or Loulan 樓蘭|楼兰[Lou2 lan2]
斯文·赫定	Sven Hedin (1865-1952), famous Swedish adventurer and archaeologist, whose 1894-1900 Central Asian expeditions uncovered Kroraina or Loulan 樓蘭|楼兰
斯普利特	Split (city in Croatia)
斯普拉特利群島	Spratly Islands, disputed between China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam
斯普林菲爾德	Springfield
斯普特尼克	Sputnik, Soviet artificial Earth satellite
斯柯達	Škoda, Czech Republic car manufacturer, a subsidiary of Volkswagen Group
斯沃琪	Swatch (Swiss brand)
斯泰恩謝爾	Steinkjær (city in Trøndelag, Norway)
斯泰西	Stacy (name)
斯洛伐克	Slovakia (officially the Slovak Republic since 1993)
斯洛伐克語	Slovak (language)
斯洛文尼亞	Slovenia
斯洛文尼亞共和國	Republic of Slovenia
斯洛文尼亞語	Slovenian (language)
斯洛維尼亞	Slovenia (Tw)
斯特凡諾普洛斯	Stephanopoulos (e.g. former Clinton aide George Stephanopoulos)
斯特恩	Stern (name)
斯特拉斯堡	Strasbourg
斯特拉特福	Stratford (place name)
斯瓦希里	Swahili
斯瓦希里語	Swahili (language); Kiswahili
斯瓦爾巴和揚馬延	Svalbard and Jan Mayen
斯瓦特	Swat province in Pakistani Northwest Frontier
斯瓦特谷地	Swat valley in Pakistani Northwest Frontier
斯當東	Staunton (name)
斯皮爾伯格	Steven Spielberg (1946-), US film director
斯福爾瓦爾	Svolvær (city in Nordland, Norway)
斯科普里	Skopje, capital of North Macedonia
斯科費爾峰	Scafell Pike, the highest mountain in England (978 m)
斯維爾德洛夫	Yakov Mikhailovich Sverdlov (1885-1919), Bolshevik organizer, ordered the murder of the Tsar's family in 1918, died of Spanish influenza
斯考特	Scott (name)
斯芬克司	Sphinx (Egyptian mythical beast)
斯芬克斯	sphinx (myth.) (loanword)
斯萊特林	Slytherin (Harry Potter)
斯蒂文	Steven (name)
斯蒂文森	Stevenson or Stephenson (name)
斯蒂芬	Stephen or Steven (name)
斯蒂芬·哈珀	Stephen Harper (1959-), Canadian politician, prime minister 2006-2015
斯諾	Snow (name)
斯諾克	(loanword) snooker
斯諾登	Edward Snowden (1983-), American surveillance program whistleblower
斯賓塞	(name) Spencer
斯賓諾莎	Baruch or Benedict Spinoza (1632-1677), rationalist philosopher
斯通亨治石欄	Stonehenge stone circle
斯里巴加灣港	Bandar Seri Begawan, capital of Brunei
斯里蘭卡	Sri Lanka
新	abbr. for Xinjiang 新疆[Xin1 jiang1]
新一代	new generation
新丁	new addition to a family (i.e. a birth)
新不倫瑞克	New Brunswick province, Canada
新不列顛島	New Britain, island of northeast Papua New Guinea
新中國	New China (post-1949 China)
新五代史	Later History of the Five Dynasties (between Tang and Song), nineteenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Ouyang Xiu 歐陽修|欧阳修[Ou1 yang2 Xiu1] in 1053 during Northern Song Dynasty, 74 scrolls
新井	Arai (Japanese surname)
新京報	Beijing news (newspaper)
新人	newcomer; new recruit; fresh talent; newlywed, esp. new bride
新仇舊恨	(idiom) old and new grudges; accumulated grievances
新任	newly-appointed; newly elected; new (in a political office)
新低	new low
新余市	Xinyu, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
新作	new work (book, movie, video game etc)
新來乍到	newly arrived (idiom)
新修	revise; revised
新修本草	Tang dynasty compendium of herbal medicine
新儒家	New Confucianism, a social and political movement founded in 1920s China that combines aspects of Western and Eastern philosophy
新元	Singapore dollar
新元史	New History of the Yuan Dynasty, completed by Ke Shaomin 柯劭忞[Ke1 Shao4 min2] in 1920, sometimes listed as one of the 24 Dynastic Histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3]
新兵	(military) raw recruit; rookie; newcomer (to a profession or field)
新兵蛋子	(coll.) (military) raw recruit; rookie
新冠	novel coronavirus (abbr. for 新型冠狀病毒|新型冠状病毒[xin1 xing2 guan1 zhuang4 bing4 du2]) (esp. SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing COVID-19)
新冠病毒	novel coronavirus (abbr. for 新型冠狀病毒|新型冠状病毒[xin1 xing2 guan1 zhuang4 bing4 du2]) (esp. SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing COVID-19)
新冠肺炎	COVID-19, the coronavirus disease identified in 2019
新出爐	fresh out of the oven; fig. novelty just announced
新出生	newly born
新劇同志會	New Play Comrade Society, Chinese theatrical company founded in 1912, a continuation of the Spring Willow Society 春柳社[Chun1 liu3 she4]
新力	Sony (former name of the company used prior to 2009 in some markets including Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore, now replaced by 索尼[Suo3 ni2] in all markets)
新加坡	Singapore
新加坡人	Singaporean person; Singaporean
新加坡國立大學	National University of Singapore
新化縣	Xinhua, a county in Loudi City 婁底市|娄底市[Lou2 di3 Shi4], Hunan
新北區	Xinbei, a district of Changzhou City 常州市[Chang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
新北市	New Taipei City, administrative district in north Taiwan, formerly 臺北縣|台北县[Tai2 bei3 Xian4]
新北界	Nearctic realm
新南威爾士	New South Wales, southeast Australian state
新南威爾士州	New South Wales (Australian state)
新古典	neoclassical
新古典主義	neoclassicism
新台幣	New Taiwan dollar (NTD)
新吳區	Xinwu, a district of Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
新和縣	Xinhe, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
新唐書	History of the Later Tang Dynasty, seventeenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Ouyang Xiu 歐陽修|欧阳修[Ou1 yang2 Xiu1] and Song Qi 宋祁[Song4 Qi2] in 1060 during Northern Song 北宋[Bei3 Song4], 225 scrolls
新喀里多尼亞	New Caledonia
新四軍	New Fourth army of Republic of China, set up in 1937 and controlled by the communists
新土	freshly dug up earth
新型	new type; new kind
新型冠狀病毒	novel coronavirus (esp. SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing COVID-19)
新型農村合作醫療	New Rural Cooperative Medical Scheme; abbr. to 新農合|新农合
新城區	Xincheng, a district of Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
新城病	Newcastle disease
新城電台	Metro Radio Hong Kong
新增	to add (sth new); newly added; additional
新墨西哥	New Mexico, US state
新大陸	the New World
新天地	Xintiandi (shopping, eating and entertainment district of Shanghai)
新奇	novel; new; exotic
新奧爾良	New Orleans, Louisiana
新娘	bride
新娘秘書	(Tw) bridal stylist
新婚	newly married
新婚夫婦	newly married couple; newlyweds
新婚燕爾	(idiom) to experience the joy of being newly married
新婦	bride; (dialect) daughter-in-law
新媒體	new media (digital media, as contrasted with traditional media)
新嫁娘	bride
新字體	shinjitai, simplified Japanese character used since 1946
新安縣	Xin'an, a county in Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
新官上任三把火	(of a newly appointed official) to make bold changes on assuming office (idiom)
新宿	Shinjuku, Tokyo
新密市	Xinmi, a county-level city in Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
新寧縣	Xinning, a county in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
新寵	current favorite; the latest thing; darling (of the market or the media etc)
新居	new residence; new home
新山	Johor Bahru (city in Malaysia)
新巴爾虎右旗	New Barag right banner in Hulunbuir 呼倫貝爾|呼伦贝尔[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3], Inner Mongolia
新巴爾虎左旗	New Barag left banner in Hulunbuir 呼倫貝爾|呼伦贝尔[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3], Inner Mongolia
新市區	Xinshi District of Ürümqi, Xinjiang
新市鎮	new town; planned community
新幣	(coll.) Singapore dollar
新平彝族傣族自治縣	Xinping Yi and Dai Autonomous County, in Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
新年	New Year
新年前夕	New Year's eve
新年快樂	Happy New Year!
新幹線	Shinkansen, Japan's high-speed rail network; Shinkansen train
新幹縣	Xingan, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
新幾內亞	New Guinea
新店	Xindian or Hsintien city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
新店市	Xindian or Hsintien city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
新店溪	Xindian or Hsintian Creek, one of the rivers through Taipei, Taiwan
新建	new construction; newly built
新建區	Xinjian, a district of Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
新式	new style; latest type
新德里	New Delhi, capital of India
新思想	new ideas
新愁舊恨	new worries added to old hatred (idiom); afflicted by problems old and new
新意	new idea
新慕道團	neo Catechumenal way
新成土	primosol (soil taxonomy)
新房	brand new house; bridal chamber
新手	new hand; novice; raw recruit
新拉	New Latin
新撫區	Xinfu, a district of Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
新政	new policy
新教	Protestantism
新教徒	Protestant; adherent of Protestantism
新文化運動	the New Culture Movement (mid-1910s and 1920s), intellectual revolution against Confucianism aiming to introduce Western elements, especially democracy and science
新斯科舍	Nova Scotia province, Canada
新新人類	new generation of youths (generation X, Y etc)
新昌縣	Xinchang, a county in Shaoxing City 紹興市|绍兴市[Shao4 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
新星	(astronomy) nova; (fig.) new star; rising star
新春	the beginning of Spring
新春佳節	Chinese New Year festivities
新時代	new age
新晃侗族自治縣	Xinhuang Dong Autonomous County, in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
新晉	(of a role or status) newly appointed; newly become; newly minted
新曆	Gregorian calendar; solar calendar
新會區	Xinhui, a district of Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
新月	new moon; crescent
新朝	the Xin dynasty (8-23 AD) of Wang Mang 王莽, forming the interregnum between the former and later Han
新村	new housing development
新林區	Xinlin, a district of Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
新柏拉圖主義	neo-Platonism (philosophical system combining Platonism with mysticism)
新榮區	Xinrong, a district of Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
新樂市	Xinle, a county-level city in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
新款	new style; latest fashion; new model
新歡	new flame; new lover
新殖民主義	neocolonialism
新殖民化	neocolonialization
新民主主義	New Democracy
新民主主義論	On New Democracy (1940), by Mao Zedong
新民主主義革命	(Maoism) New Democracy (aka New Democratic Revolution)
新民市	Xinmin, a county-level city in Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
新民晚報	Xinmin Evening News
新沂市	Xinyi, a county-level city in Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
新河縣	Xinhe, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
新泰市	Xintai, a county-level city in Tai'an City 泰安市[Tai4 an1 Shi4], Shandong
新津區	Xinjin, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
新洲區	Xinzhou, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
新派	new faction
新浪	Sina, Chinese web portal and online media company
新浪微博	Sina Weibo, Chinese microblogging platform
新浪網	Sina, Chinese web portal and online media company
新海峽時報	New Strait Times (newspaper)
新源縣	Xinyuan, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
新潟	Niigata (prefecture and city in Japan)
新潮	modern; fashionable
新澤西	New Jersey, US state
新熱帶界	Neotropic (ecozone)
新版	new edition; new version
新瓶舊酒	old wine in a new bottle (idiom)
新瓶裝舊酒	old wine in a new bottle (idiom)
新生	new; newborn; emerging
新生代	Cenozoic (geological era covering the last 65m years)
新生兒	newborn baby; neonate
新產品推介會	product launch event
新田縣	Xintian, a county in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
新界	New Territories (in Hong Kong)
新異	new and different; novelty
新畿內亞	New Guinea
新疆手抓飯	Xinjiang-style pilaf, made with lamb
新疆歌鴝	(bird species of China) common nightingale (Luscinia megarhynchos)
新疆生產建設兵團	Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, also known as XPCC or Bingtuan ("the Corps"), a state-owned economic and paramilitary organization in China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region
新疆維吾爾自治區	Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, capital Ürümqi 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4] (short name 新[Xin1])
新知	new knowledge; new friend
新石器	Neolithic
新石器時代	Neolithic Era
新禧	Happy New Year!
新秀	rising star; new talent
新秘	(Tw) bridal stylist (abbr. for 新娘秘書|新娘秘书[xin1 niang2 mi4 shu1])
新穎	lit. new bud; fig. new and original
新竹	Xinzhu or Hsinchu city in northern Taiwan, noted for high tech industries
新竹市	Hsinchu, city in north Taiwan noted for its high tech industries
新竹縣	Xinzhu or Hsinchu County in northwest Taiwan
新紀元	New Age (movement)
新約	New Testament
新約全書	New Testament
新絳縣	Xinjiang, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
新編	to compile anew; new (version); newly set up (part of an organization)
新縣	Xin County or Xinxian, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
新罕布什爾	New Hampshire, US state
新羅	Silla, Korean kingdom that existed between 57 BC – 935 AD, one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea, later allied with Tang China to defeat its rivals Baekje 百濟|百济[Bai3 ji4] and Goguryeo 高句麗|高句丽[Gao1 gou1 li2] to form Unified Silla
新羅區	Xinluo, a district of Longyan City 龍巖市|龙岩市[Long2 yan2 Shi4], Fujian
新羅王朝	Silla, Korean kingdom 57 BC-935 AD
新義州市	Shin'ŭiju, capital of North Pyong'an Province, North Korea
新聞	news
新聞主播	newsreader; anchor
新聞出版總署	General Administration of Press and Publication (PRC state censorship organization)
新聞周刊	Newsweek magazine
新聞媒體	news media
新聞學	journalism
新聞工作者	journalist
新聞界	the press; the media
新聞發布會	press conference; news conference
新聞發言人	spokesman
新聞稿	press release
新聞策劃	communication management; public relations
新聞組	newsgroup
新聞網	news agency
新聞自由	freedom of the press
新聞處	news service; information agency
新聞記者	journalist
新聞週刊	Newsweek magazine; also written 新聞周刊|新闻周刊
新能源	new energy; alternative energy (energy from nontraditional sources, such as solar, wind, nuclear and hydrogen energy)
新興	(of markets, industries, infectious diseases etc) rising; emerging
新興區	Xinxing, a district of Qitaihe City 七臺河市|七台河市[Qi1 tai2 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
新興產業	emerging industry
新興經濟國家	developing economic state; developing nation
新興縣	Xinxing, a county in Yunfu City 雲浮市|云浮市[Yun2 fu2 Shi4], Guangdong
新芬黨	Sinn Fein, Irish political party
新芽	new shoot; new sprout
新英格蘭	New England
新莊	Xinzhuang or Hsinchuang city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
新莊市	Xinzhuang or Hsinchuang city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
新華	Xinhua (lit. "New China"), used in the names of various businesses, products and organizations, notably Xinhua News Agency 新華社|新华社[Xin1 hua2 she4]
新華區	Xinhua, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
新華日報	Xinhua Daily newspaper
新華書店	Xinhua Bookstore, China's largest bookstore chain
新華社	Xinhua News Agency, official press agency of the People's Republic of China, founded in 1931
新華網	Xinhua News Network
新蔡縣	Xincai, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
新藝拉瑪	Cinerama
新藝綜合體	CinemaScope
新西伯利亞	Novosibirsk (city in Russia)
新西伯利亞市	Novosibirsk, city in Russia
新西蘭	New Zealand
新規	new rule
新詞	new expression; neologism
新豐縣	Xinfeng, a county in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
新貴	nouveau riche; upstart; new appointee
新賓滿族自治縣	Xinbin Manchu Autonomous County, in Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
新軍	New Armies (modernized Qing armies, trained and equipped according to Western standards, founded after Japan's victory in the First Sino-Japanese War in 1895)
新農合	New Rural Cooperative Medical Scheme; abbr. for 新型農村合作醫療|新型农村合作医疗
新近	newly
新造	Xinzao town, Guangdong
新選	newly elected
新邱區	Xinqiu, a district of Fuxin City 阜新市[Fu4 xin1 Shi4], Liaoning
新邵縣	Xinshao, a county in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
新郎	bridegroom; groom
新郎倌	bridegroom; groom
新郎官	bridegroom; groom
新都區	Xindu, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
新鄉市	Xinxiang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
新鄉縣	Xinxiang, a county in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
新鄭市	Xinzheng, a county-level city in Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
新野縣	Xinye, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
新金縣	Xinjin county in Liaoning
新銳	cutting-edge (in technology, science, fashion, the arts etc)
新錢	newly minted coin; freshly printed banknote
新陳代謝	metabolism (biology); the new replaces the old (idiom)
新階段	new level; higher plane
新雅	fresh; new and elegant
新風	new trend; new custom
新風系統	ventilation system that purifies outdoor air during intake
新馬	Singapore and Malaysia (abbr. for 新加坡[Xin1 jia1 po1] + 馬來西亞|马来西亚[Ma3 lai2 xi1 ya4])
新馬泰	Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand (abbr. for 新加坡[Xin1 jia1 po1] + 馬來西亞|马来西亚[Ma3 lai2 xi1 ya4] + 泰國|泰国[Tai4 guo2])
新高	new high
新鮮	fresh (experience, food etc); freshness; novel
新黨	New Party (Republic of China)
新黴素	(pharmacology) neomycin
新龍縣	Xinlong, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
斲	to chop; to carve wood
斷	to break; to snap; to cut off
斷乎	certainly
斷乳	to wean; to be weaned; (TCM) to use medication to stop lactation
斷交	to end a relationship; to break off diplomatic ties
斷代	periodization (of history)
斷供	to default on a mortgage; to stop supplying sth
斷句	to pause at appropriate points in reading aloud unpunctuated writing
斷壁殘垣	(lit.) broken walls and crumbling remnants (idiom)
斷壁頹垣	lit. walls reduced to rubble (idiom); fig. scene of devastation; ruins
斷奶	to wean
斷子絕孫	to die without progeny; (offensive) may you die childless
斷定	to conclude; to determine; to come to a judgment
斷尾	(zoology) (of a lizard etc) to shed its tail; to autotomize its tail
斷層	(geology) fault (CL:道[dao4])
斷層成像	computed tomography
斷層掃描	CT scan (computed tomography scan)
斷層攝影	computed tomography
斷層線	geological fault line
斷崖	steep cliff; crag; precipice
斷崖式	(of a fall in price, temperature etc) steep; precipitous
斷弦	widowed
斷想	brief commentary
斷捨離	(neologism, attested by 2012) decluttering; minimalism (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 断捨離 "danshari", lit. "forgoing, discarding and letting go")
斷斷續續	intermittent; off and on; discontinuous
斷案	to judge a case
斷橋	The Broken Bridge (at West Lake in Hangzhou)
斷檔	sold out; to be out of stock
斷氣	to stop breathing; to breathe one's last; to die
斷流	to run dry (of river)
斷港絕潢	to be unable to continue; to come to a dead end (idiom)
斷滅	annihilation (of soul, Sanskrit uccheda)
斷滅論	annihilation (of soul, Sanskrit uccheda)
斷然	resolute; definitive; categorically
斷片	fragment; piece; (of a film) to break in the middle of viewing
斷片兒	(coll.) to suffer an alcohol-induced blackout
斷獄	to pass judgment on a legal case
斷球	(sports) to steal; to intercept the ball
斷瓦殘垣	the tiles are broken, the walls dilapidated
斷生	(of food) to be cooked just until no longer raw
斷碼	(fashion retailing) available only in a limited range of less popular sizes
斷章取義	(idiom) to quote out of context
斷糧	to run out of food
斷絕	to sever; to break off
斷網	to cut off access to the Internet; to shut down the Internet
斷線	(of a guitar, kite etc) to have a string break
斷線鉗	bolt cutter
斷線風箏	a kite that is lost after its string breaks (metaphor for sb one never hears from anymore)
斷續	intermittent
斷肢	severed limb
斷背	homosexual (a reference to Brokeback Mountain 斷背山|断背山[Duan4 bei4 Shan1], a 2005 movie about a same-sex relationship)
斷背山	Brokeback Mountain, 2005 English-language film by Ang Lee 李安[Li3 An1]
斷腸	heartbroken; to break one's heart
斷腿	broken leg
斷行	to carry out resolutely
斷袖	homosexual
斷袖之癖	lit. cut sleeve (idiom); fig. euphemism for homosexuality, originating from History of Western Han 漢書|汉书: emperor Han Aidi (real name Liu Xin) was in bed with his lover Dong Xian, and had to attend a court audience that morning. Not wishing to awaken Dong Xian, who was sleeping with his head resting on the emperor's long robe sleeve, Aidi used a knife to cut off the lower half of his sleeve.
斷裂	fracture; rupture; to break apart
斷裂帶	fault zone (geology)
斷裂強度	rupture strength; breaking strength
斷裂模數	modulus rupture
斷言	to assert; assertion
斷語	conclusion; judgment; verdict
斷貨	to run out of (stock)
斷路器	circuit breaker
斷送	to forfeit (future profit, one's life etc); ruined
斷開	to break; to sever; to turn off (electric switch)
斷電	to experience a power outage; to have a power failure
斷頓	to go without meals (due to poverty or scarcity)
斷頭台	guillotine; scaffold
斷頭路	dead-end road; (fig.) impasse
斷食	to fast; hunger strike
斷魂椒	ghost pepper
斷點	(computing) breakpoint
斸	cut
方	square; power or involution (math.); upright
方丈	one of three fabled islands in Eastern sea, abode of immortals
方位	direction; points of the compass; bearing
方位角	azimuth
方位詞	noun of locality (linguistics)
方便	convenient; suitable; to facilitate; to make things easy
方便貼	Post-it note; sticky note
方便麵	instant noodles
方冊	ancient books and volumes; classical writings
方劑	prescription; recipe (Chinese medicine)
方向	direction; orientation
方向性	directionality (molecular biology)
方向感	sense of direction
方向盤	steering wheel
方命	against orders; to disobey; to refuse to accept orders
方圓	perimeter; range; (within) a radius of ...
方城	square castle; mahjong layout (with the tiles laid out as a square)
方城縣	Fangcheng, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
方塊	cube; block; square; diamond ♦ (in card games)
方塊字	Chinese characters
方塊舞	square dance (traditional American dance)
方士	alchemist; necromancer
方大同	Khalil Fong (1983–2025), Hong Kong singer-songwriter
方妮	Fanny (name)
方子	prescription (medicine)
方孔錢	round coin with a square hole in the middle, used in former times in China
方家	learned person; expert in a certain field
方寸	square cun (Chinese unit of area: 1 cun × 1 cun, or 3⅓ cm × 3⅓ cm)
方寸大亂	(idiom) to become agitated; to get worked up
方寸已亂	(idiom) confused; troubled; bewildered
方尖碑	obelisk
方尾鶲	(bird species of China) grey-headed canary-flycatcher (Culicicapa ceylonensis)
方山縣	Fangshan, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
方差	variance (statistics)
方帽	mortarboard; square academic cap
方式	way; method; manner; mode; pattern (of behavior etc)
方形	square; square-shaped
方志	local chronicles; district records
方才	just now; then
方括號	square brackets [ ]
方文山	Vincent Fang (1969-), Taiwanese multi-Golden Melody Award lyricist
方方正正	square-shaped
方方面面	all sides; all aspects; multifaceted
方枘圓鑿	(lit.) like a square peg in a round hole (idiom); (fig.) incompatible
方根	(math.) root (as in "fourth root (∜)", 4次方根[si4 ci4 fang1 gen1])
方格	checked pattern
方格紙	squared paper; graph paper
方框圖	flowchart; block diagram
方案	plan; program (for action etc); proposal
方正	clear and square; neat; square (person)
方正縣	Fangzheng, a county in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
方毅	Fang Yi (1916-1997), senior party apparatchik
方法	method; way; technique; procedure
方法學	methodology
方法論	methodology
方物	produced locally; local product (with distinctive native features)
方略	strategy; overall plan (esp. high-level or policy)
方知	to realize only then
方程	(math.) equation
方程式	(math.) equation
方程組	(math.) simultaneous equations; system of equations
方策	strategy; policy; general plan
方糖	sugar cube
方能	can then (and only then)
方腿	processed ham product
方臘	Fang La
方興未已	flourishing and still in the ascendant (idiom); rapidly expanding
方興未艾	flourishing and still in the ascendant (idiom); rapidly expanding
方舟	ark
方艙	portable building; demountable building; transportable building; (UK) portacabin
方莊	Fangzhuang neighborhood of Beijing
方術	arts of healing, divination, horoscope etc; supernatural arts (old)
方解石	calcite (CaCO3 as rock-forming mineral)
方言	the first Chinese dialect dictionary, edited by Yang Xiong 揚雄|扬雄[Yang2 Xiong2] in 1st century, containing over 9000 characters
方針	policy; guidelines
方釳	(arch.) metal horn attached as shield to horse or to the axle of a chariot
方鉛礦	galena
方陣	square-shaped formation (military); phalanx; (math.) matrix
方面	respect; aspect; field
方音	dialectal accent
方頂	square roof
方頭	square headed
方頭巾	headscarf
方頭括號	lenticular brackets (【】 or 〖〗)
方頭螺帽	square headed nut
於	(of time or place) in; at; on
於事無補	unhelpful; useless
於心不忍	can't bear to
於是	thereupon; as a result; consequently; thus; hence
於是乎	(literary) and so; thereupon; thus
於焉	(classical) see 於是|于是[yu2 shi4]
施	(bound form) to put into effect (regulations etc)
施主	benefactor (term used by a monk to address a layperson)
施主能級	donor level (semiconductor)
施事	(linguistics) agent; doer
施事者	(linguistics) agent; doer
施以	to inflict (punishment); to provide (training etc)
施加	to exert (effort or pressure)
施壓	to pressure
施密特	(surname) Schmidt or Schmitt
施展	to use fully; to put to use
施工	construction; to carry out construction or large-scale repairs
施工單位	unit in charge of construction; builder
施恩	to confer a favor on sb; to confer a benefit
施惠	to give charity to sb; to oblige
施打	to inject (a vaccine etc)
施捨	to give in charity; to give alms (to the poor)
施放	to fire; to discharge
施政	administration
施政報告	administrative report
施救	to rescue; to render emergency aid
施教	teaching
施明德	Shih Ming-teh (1941–2024), Taiwanese politician, imprisoned 1962–1977 and 1980–1990 under the Guomindang, subsequently a leader of DPP 民進黨|民进党[Min2 jin4 dang3], in 2006 led protests against Chen Shui-Bian 陳水扁|陈水扁[Chen2 Shui3 bian3]
施暴	to use violence; to attack; to assault
施樂	Xerox
施治	to apply a treatment; to undertake a therapy
施法	to implement the law; to perform sorcery
施泰爾馬克	Styria (Steiermark), province of Austria
施洗	baptize
施洗約翰	John the Baptist
施洗者約翰	John the Baptist
施特勞斯	Strauss (name); Johann Strauss (1825-1899), Austrian composer
施琅	Shi Lang (1621–1696), Chinese admiral who served under the Ming and Qing dynasties
施瓦布	Schwab (name)
施瓦辛格	Arnold Schwarzenegger (1947–), Austrian-American bodybuilder, actor and politician, governor of California (2003–2011)
施用	to implement; to use
施甸縣	Shidian, a county in Baoshan City 保山市[Bao3 shan1 Shi4], Yunnan
施禮	to salute; to greet
施秉縣	Shibing, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
施粥捨飯	to provide alms and rice (idiom)
施羅德	(name) Schröder
施耐庵	Shi Nai'an (1296-1371), author of Water Margin or Outlaws of the Marsh 水滸傳|水浒传[Shui3 hu3 Zhuan4]
施肥	to apply fertilizer
施與	to donate; to give; to grant
施華洛世奇水晶	Swarovski crystal
施虐	to torment; to abuse (an animal, child etc)
施虐受虐	sado-masochism
施虐狂	sadism (psychiatry)
施虐癖	sadism (fetish)
施虐者	abuser; (in sadomasochism) dominant partner
施行	to put in place; to put into practice; to take effect
施食	to give food (as a charity)
斾	banner
斿	scallops along lower edge of flag
旁	one side; other; different
旁人	other people; bystanders; onlookers
旁敲側擊	to make insinuations
旁氏	Pond's (brand of skin care products)
旁白	aside (theater); voice-over; background narration
旁系	collateral relative (descended from a common ancestor but through different lines)
旁聽	to sit in on (proceedings); to be present at a meeting as an observer
旁聽生	auditor (student)
旁腱肌	hamstring (anatomy)
旁若無人	to act as though there were nobody else present; unselfconscious
旁觀	spectator; non-participant
旁觀者	observer; spectator
旁觀者清	an outsider can see things more clearly or objectively than those involved (idiom)
旁證	circumstantial evidence
旁路	to bypass
旁遮普	Punjab state of India; Punjab province of Pakistan
旁遮普省	Punjab province of Pakistan
旁遮普邦	Punjab state in northwest India bordering Pakistan
旁邊	side; adjacent place
旁門	side door
旁門左道	dissenting religious sect (idiom); heretical school of opinion
旁騖	to be inattentive; to be distracted by sth
旂	flag
旃	felt; silken banner
旃檀	sandalwood (loanword from Sanskrit "candana")
旄	banner decorated with animal's tail
旄車	an ancient war chariot
旅	trip; travel; to travel
旅人	(literary) traveler
旅伴	travel companion
旅充	travel wall charger (Tw)
旅大	Lüshun 旅順|旅顺[Lu:3 shun4] port and Dalian city 大連|大连[Da4 lian2], Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
旅大市	former name of Dalian city 大連|大连[Da4 lian2] incorporating Lüshun 旅順|旅顺[Lu:3 shun4]
旅大租地條約	unequal treaty of 1898 whereby the Qing dynasty ceded the lease of Lüshun (Port Arthur) to Russia
旅客	traveler; tourist
旅居	to stay away from home; residence abroad; sojourn
旅居車	motorhome; RV (recreational vehicle)
旅平險	travel insurance covering medical expenses (abbr. for 旅遊平安保險|旅游平安保险[lu : 3 you2 ping2 an1 bao3 xian3])
旅店	inn; small hotel
旅檢	passenger inspection (customs)
旅社	hotel; hostel
旅程	journey; trip
旅程表	itinerary
旅舍	inn; small hotel; hostel
旅行	to travel; journey; trip
旅行團	tour group
旅行支票	traveler's check
旅行社	travel agency
旅行者	traveler
旅行袋	travel bag
旅行裝備	travel equipment; travel gear
旅費	travel expenses
旅途	journey; trip
旅遊	trip; journey; tourism
旅遊勝地	tourist destination; tourist attraction
旅遊團	tour group
旅遊城市	tourist city
旅遊客	a tourist
旅遊景點	tourist attraction; travel sight
旅遊業	tourism industry
旅遊熱點	a hot tourist attraction; a tourist trap
旅遊者	tourist; traveler; visitor
旅遊集散中心	tour group assembly and dispatch center
旅長	(military) brigade commander
旅順	Lüshun; Lüshunkou district of Dalian city 大連市|大连市, Liaoning
旅順口區	Lüshunkou, a district of Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
旅順港	Lüshun port, on the tip of the Liaoning peninsula
旅館	hotel
旆	pennant; streamer
旋	to revolve; a loop; a circle
旋乾轉坤	lit. overturning heaven and earth (idiom); earth-shattering
旋光	rotation of plane of polarization of light
旋前肌	pronator teres muscle (below the elbow)
旋即	soon after; shortly
旋回	to cycle
旋子	whirlwind somersault (in gymnastics or martial arts)
旋律	melody
旋木雀	(bird species of China) Eurasian treecreeper (Certhia familiaris)
旋梯	spiral stairs; winding stairs (gymnastic equipment)
旋流	rotating flow
旋淵	abyss
旋渦	spiral; whirlpool; eddy
旋渦星系	spiral galaxy
旋渦星雲	spiral nebula
旋渦狀	spiral-shaped
旋筒風帆	rotor sail
旋繞	to curl up; to wind around
旋翼	rotor wing
旋臂	spiral arm
旋舞	whirling dance
旋花科	Convolvulaceae, herbaceous plant family
旋覆花	(botany) convolvulvus; Flos Inulae (Chinese herb)
旋踵	(literary) in an instant (lit. to turn on one's heel)
旋轉	to rotate; to revolve; to spin
旋轉力	turning force; torque
旋轉台	rotating platform; luggage carousel
旋轉對稱	(geometry) rotational symmetry
旋轉曲面	a surface of revolution (math.)
旋轉木馬	merry-go-round; carousel
旋轉極	pole of rotation
旋轉烤肉	döner kebab
旋轉球	spin ball
旋轉角	angle of rotation
旋轉角速度	rotational angular velocity
旋轉軸	axis of rotation
旋轉運動	rotation; rotary motion
旋轉門	revolving door
旋里	to return home
旋量	spinor (math.)
旋鈕	knob (e.g. handle or radio button)
旋風	whirlwind; tornado
旋風腳	whirlwind kick (martial arts)
旌	banner; make manifest
旌德縣	Jingde, a county in Xuancheng City 宣城市[Xuan1 cheng2 Shi4], Anhui
旌旗	gonfanon; banner
旌陽區	Jingyang, a district of Deyang City 德陽市|德阳市[De2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
旎	used in 旖旎[yi3 ni3]
族	race; nationality; ethnicity
族人	clansman; clan members; relatives
族權	clan authority; clan power
族滅	to execute all of sb's relatives (as punishment) (old)
族群	ethnic group; community
族裔	ethnic group
族誅	to execute all of sb's relatives (as punishment) (old)
族譜	genealogical record; family history; lineage
族長	clan elder
族類	clan; race
旐	banner
旒	tassel
旓	serrated edges on a Chinese flag
旖	used in 旖旎[yi3 ni3]
旖旎	(literary) charming; enchanting; picturesque
旗	banner; flag; (in Qing times) Manchu (cf. 八旗[Ba1 qi2])
旗丁	Manchurian foot soldier
旗下	under the banner of
旗人	Manchu; bannerman (refers to the eight Manchu banners 八旗[Ba1 qi2])
旗兵	Manchurian soldier
旗子	flag; banner
旗官	Manchurian official
旗幅	banner; width of a flag
旗幟	ensign; flag
旗幟鮮明	to show one's colors; to have a clear-cut stand (idiom)
旗手	a flag carrier (army); ensign
旗杆	flagpole
旗校	Manchurian officer
旗標	flag
旗津	Qijin or Chichin district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
旗津區	Qijin or Chichin district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
旗牌	flag or banner
旗瓣	(botany) vexillum; banner petal; standard petal (of a papilionaceous flower)
旗籍	banner registration (in the Eight Banners system of the Qing dynasty)
旗艦	flagship
旗艦店	flagship (store)
旗號	military banner (often used figuratively, usually pejoratively, to mean "pretext" or "ostensible purpose")
旗袍	cheongsam, a traditional Chinese dress for women, originally a long robe worn by Manchu women, later modernized in 20th-century Shanghai into a close-fitting dress with a high collar and side slits
旗裝	Manchu-style clothing
旗語	flag signals (for communicating between ships or army units); semaphore
旗開得勝	lit. to win a victory on raising the flag (idiom); fig. to start on sth and have immediate success
旗鼓相當	lit. two armies have equivalent banners and drums (idiom); fig. evenly matched
旛	pennant
旝	(literary) standard; banner (raised for battle)
旟	banner with falcons; mussed up hair
旡	choke on something eaten
既	already; since; both... (and...)
既來之，則安之	Since they have come, we should make them comfortable (idiom). Since we're here, take it easy.
既定	already fixed; set; established
既已	already
既往	past; bygone; the past
既往不咎	to forget and not bear recriminations (idiom); to let bygones be bygones
既得	vested in; already obtained; vesting
既得利益	vested interest
既得期間	vesting period (in finance)
既成事實	fait accompli
既是	is both ...(and...); since; as
既有	existing
既然	since; as; this being the case
既而	soon after; later; then
既視感	déjà vu
日	(bound form) sun; day; day of the month
日中	noon; midday; zenith
日久	with the passage of time; over time
日久歲深	(idiom) for a long period of time; for a number of years
日久生情	familiarity breeds fondness (idiom)
日人	Japanese person; the Japanese
日人民報	(vulgar) derogatory name (in which 日[ri4] means 肏[cao4]) for the "People's Daily" 人民日報|人民日报[Ren2 min2 Ri4 bao4]
日來	in the past few days; lately
日俄戰爭	the war of 1904-1905 between Russia and Japan
日偏食	partial eclipse of the sun
日元	yen (currency of Japan)
日光	sunlight
日光浴	sunbathing
日光浴室	sun room; solarium
日光浴浴床	sunbed
日光燈	fluorescent light
日光節約時	daylight saving time
日內	in a few days; one of these days
日內瓦	Geneva, Switzerland
日全食	total eclipse of the sun
日冕	stellar corona
日冕儀	coronagraph
日冕層	stellar corona
日出	sunrise
日出而作，日入而息	lit. to get up at sunrise and work until sunset (proverb)
日刊	daily (publication)
日前	the other day; a few days ago
日化	household chemicals (cleaning products etc) and toiletries (abbr. for 日用化學製品|日用化学制品[ri4 yong4 hua4 xue2 zhi4 pin3])
日南郡	Han dynasty province in Vietnam
日喀則市	Xigazê, prefecture-level city in Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
日土縣	Rutog, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
日報	daily newspaper
日場	daytime show; matinee
日增	increasing by the day
日夜	day and night; around the clock
日夜兼程	to travel day and night
日媒	Japanese news media
日子	day; a (calendar) date; days of one's life
日寇	Japanese invaders (during the Second Sino-Japanese War)
日常	day-to-day; daily; everyday
日常工作	routine
日式	Japanese style
日式燒肉	yakiniku (Japanese-style grilled meat)
日後	sometime; someday (in the future)
日復一日	day after day
日心說	heliocentric theory
日怪	(dialect) strange
日惹	Yogyakarta, city of Java, Indonesia, and capital of the Special Region of Yogyakarta 日惹特區|日惹特区[Ri4 re3 Te4 qu1]
日惹特區	Special Region of Yogyakarta, region of Java, Indonesia
日戳	date stamp
日拋	(attributive) daily disposable; intended for one-day use
日據	(geopolitics) Japanese occupation (of Taiwan etc)
日據時代	the era of Japanese occupation
日文	Japanese (language)
日料	Japanese cuisine (abbr. for 日本料理[Ri4 ben3 liao4 li3])
日新	in constant progress
日新月異	daily renewal, monthly change (idiom); every day sees new developments
日方	the Japanese side or party (in negotiations etc)
日日	every day
日晷	sundial
日暮	sunset
日暮途窮	sunset, the end of the road (idiom); in terminal decline
日曆	calendar
日曜日	Sunday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
日曬傷	sunburn
日曬雨淋	lit. exposed to sun and rain (idiom); fig. exposed to the elements
日月	the sun and moon; day and month; every day and every month
日月五星	sun, moon and the five visible planets
日月如梭	the sun and moon like a shuttle (idiom); How time flies!
日月暈	halo; ring of light around the sun or moon
日月潭	Sun Moon Lake in Nantou County, Taiwan
日月蹉跎	the years have slipped by
日月重光	the sun and moon shine once more
日月食	eclipsis (of the moon or sun)
日朝	Japan and Korea (esp. North Korea)
日期	date
日本	Japan
日本人	Japanese person
日本共同社	Kyōdō, Japanese news agency
日本刀	Japanese sword; katana
日本原子能研究所	Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute
日本叉尾海燕	(bird species of China) Matsudaira's storm petrel (Hydrobates matsudairae)
日本國誌	A Record of Japan, by Huang Zunxian 黃遵憲|黄遵宪[Huang2 Zun1 xian4], an extended analysis of Meiji Japan
日本天皇	Emperor of Japan
日本學	Japanology
日本放送協會	NHK (Nihon Hōsō Kyōkai), Japanese national broadcasting company
日本書紀	Nihonshoki or Chronicles of Japan (c. 720) book of mythology and history
日本松雀鷹	(bird species of China) Japanese sparrowhawk (Accipiter gularis)
日本柳鶯	(bird species of China) Japanese leaf warbler (Phylloscopus xanthodryas)
日本樹鶯	(bird species of China) Japanese bush warbler (Horornis diphone)
日本歌鴝	(bird species of China) Japanese robin (Larvivora akahige)
日本沼蝦	oriental river prawn (Macrobrachium nipponense), a species of freshwater shrimp, also called 青蝦|青虾[qing1 xia1]
日本海	Sea of Japan
日本經濟新聞	Nikkei Shimbun, Japanese equivalent of Financial Times
日本繡眼鳥	(bird species of China) warbling white-eye (Zosterops japonicus)
日本腦炎	Japanese encephalitis
日本航空	Japan Airlines (JAL)
日本豆腐	egg tofu (a Japanese egg-based delicacy with a smooth, silken texture similar to tofu)
日本銀行	Bank of Japan
日本電報電話公司	Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT)
日本鬼子	Japanese devil (common term of abuse in wartime China and in subsequent writing)
日本鵪鶉	(bird species of China) Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica)
日本鶺鴒	(bird species of China) Japanese wagtail (Motacilla grandis)
日本黑道	Yakuza (Japanese mafia)
日比谷公園	Hibiya Park in central Tokyo
日沒	sunset; sundown
日治時期	the period of Japanese rule
日活用戶	daily active users (of a website, service etc)
日流	the spread of Japanese cultural products (anime, pop music etc) to other countries
日漸	to progress (or increase, change etc) day by day
日灼	sun scorch; sunscald
日無暇晷	no time to spare (idiom)
日照	sunshine
日照市	Rizhao, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
日班	day shift
日環食	an annular eclipse of the sun
日產	Nissan, Japanese car make; also transliterated 尼桑[Ni2 sang1]
日用	daily expenses; of everyday use
日用品	articles for daily use
日益	day by day; more and more; increasingly
日益增加	to increase daily
日盛	more flourishing by the day
日知錄	Rizhilu or Record of daily study, by early Confucian philosopher Gu Yanwu 顧炎武|顾炎武
日神	the Sun God; Apollo
日租	to rent by the day
日程	schedule; itinerary
日程表	daily schedule
日積月累	to accumulate over a long period of time
日立	Hitachi, Ltd.
日系	(attributive) of Japanese origin
日經	Nikkei, abbr. for Nikkei Shimbun 日本經濟新聞|日本经济新闻[Ri4 ben3 Jing1 ji4 Xin1 wen2]
日經平均	Nikkei 225 stock market index
日經平均指數	Nikkei 225 stock market index
日經指數	Nikkei 225 stock market index
日美	Japan and the US; Japan-US
日耳曼	Germanic
日耳曼語	Germanic language
日至	solstice; the winter solstice 冬至 and summer solstice 夏至
日臻	to reach day after day for
日航	Japan Airlines (JAL) (abbr. for 日本航空[Ri4 ben3 Hang2 kong1])
日英聯軍	Anglo-Japanese allied army (intervention during Russian revolution and civil war 1917-1922)
日落	sundown; sunset
日落西山	the sun sets over western hills (idiom); the day approaches its end
日薄崦嵫	lit. the sun sets in Yanzi (idiom); fig. the day is drawing to an end
日薪	daily wage
日行一善	to do a good deed every day
日裔	of Japanese descent
日裡	daytime; during the day
日規	sundial
日記	diary
日記本	diary (book)
日誌	journal; log (computing)
日語	Japanese language
日貨	Japanese goods
日趨	(increasing) day by day; (more critical) with every passing day
日趨嚴重	more critical with every passing day
日軍	Japanese army; Japanese troops
日較差	(meteorology) diurnal range (temperature, humidity etc)
日進斗金	(idiom) to rake in money; to make money hand over fist
日間	daytime
日電	NEC (Nippon Electronic Company); abbr. for 日電電子|日电电子
日電電子	NEC (Nippon Electronic Company)
日韓	Japan and Korea
日頭	sun (dialect); daytime; date
日食	solar eclipse
旦	(literary) dawn; daybreak
旦角	dan, female roles in Chinese opera (traditionally played by specialized male actors)
旨	imperial decree; purport; aim
旨在	to have as its purpose; to be intended to; to aim to (do sth)
旨意	decree; order; will; intent
旨趣	(literary) purport; objective; intent
早	early; morning; Good morning!
早C晚A	(skincare regimen) Vitamin C in the morning, Vitamin A in the evening (original meaning)
早上	early morning
早上好	Good morning!
早些	a bit earlier
早亡	(literary) to die young; to pass away prematurely
早來	to arrive early
早先	previously; before
早出晚歸	to leave early and return late (idiom)
早前	previously
早勃	morning erection
早午飯	brunch
早午餐	brunch
早在	as early as
早報	morning newspaper
早場	morning show (at a theater or cinema); matinee
早夭	to die young
早婚	to marry too early
早孕	teenage pregnancy; early stage of pregnancy
早安	Good morning!
早就	already at an earlier time
早已	for a long time; long since; (dialect) in the past
早市	morning market
早年	many years ago; in the past; in one's early years
早戀	to be in love when one is too young; puppy love
早搏	(medicine) premature beat; extrasystole
早播	to plant early; to sow seeds in early spring
早操	morning exercises (physical exercises commonly performed en masse at schools and workplaces in East Asian countries)
早教	early education (abbr. for 早期教育[zao3 qi1 jiao4 yu4])
早日	soon; at an early date; the early days; the past
早日康復	to recover health quickly; Get well soon!
早早兒	(coll.) as soon as possible; as early as one can
早早班	preschool group for kids aged three or less
早春	early spring
早晚	morning and evening
早晨	early morning; also pr. [zao3chen5]
早期	early period; early phase; early stage
早歲	one's early years
早死	to die while still relatively young
早死早超生	to end one's suffering by dying quickly and being reincarnated
早洩	premature ejaculation
早熟	precocious; early-maturing
早班	early shift; morning work shift
早生貴子	give birth to a son soon (propitiatory compliment to newlyweds)
早產	to have a premature birth
早產兒	premature baby; preemie
早睡早起	early to bed, early to rise; to keep early hours
早知	to know in advance
早知今日何必當初	if I (you, she, he...) had known it would come to this, I (you, she, he...) would not have acted thus (idiom)
早秋	early autumn
早稻	early season rice; rice at transplanting or still unripe
早稻田大學	Waseda University (private university in Tokyo)
早老性痴呆	(coll.) Alzheimer's disease
早老素	presenilins
早自習	early-morning self-study session (before regular classes); to attend such a session
早茶	morning tea
早衰	to age prematurely; premature senescence
早課	matins; morning service (in the Catholic Church)
早起	to get up early
早車	morning bus; early train
早退	to leave early (before the stipulated finishing time)
早逝	early demise; untimely death
早霜	early frost
早飯	breakfast
早餐	breakfast
早鳥	early-bird (discount, ticket, registration etc)
早鳥優惠	early-bird discount
早鳥票	early-bird ticket
早點	breakfast
早點兒	a bit earlier
旬	(bound form) ten-day period; one of the three ten-day divisions of a month (e.g. 上旬[shang4 xun2])
旬始	comet from Saturn, traditionally described as yellow; evil omen
旬年	full year; ten years
旬日	(literary) ten days; short period
旬時	ten days
旬朔	ten days; one month; short period
旬期	ten days
旬歲	full year; first birthday
旬課	test every ten day; periodic deadline
旬輸月送	pay every ten days, give tribute every month (idiom); incessant and ever more complicated demands
旬邑縣	Xunyi, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
旬陽市	Xunyang, a county-level city in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
旬首	start of a ten day period
旭	dawn; rising sun
旭日	the rising sun
旮	used in 旮旯[ga1 la2]
旮旯	corner; nook; recess
旯	used in 旮旯[ga1 la2]
旰	sunset; evening
旱	drought
旱傘	(dialect) parasol
旱冰	roller skating
旱季	dry season
旱廁	pit toilet
旱情	drought conditions
旱澇保收	to provide a stable crop, regardless of drought or flood
旱災	drought
旱煙	tobacco (smoked in a long-stemmed pipe)
旱獺	marmot
旱象	drought
旱金蓮	garden nasturtium; Tropaeolum majus
旱魃	drought demon
旱鴨子	non-swimmer
旴	dawn
旵	(literary) (of sunlight) to beam down; to illuminate
旺	prosperous; flourishing; (of flowers) blooming
旺來	(Tw) pineapple (from Taiwanese 王梨, Tai-lo pr. [ông-lâi])
旺子	(dialect) blood tofu (coagulated animal blood)
旺季	busy season; peak period
旺月	busy (business) month
旺波日山	Mt Wangbur, Dagzê county 達孜縣|达孜县[Da2 zi1 xian4], Lhasa, Tibet
旺熾	blazing
旺熾型	florid (medicine)
旺熾性	florid (medicine)
旺盛	vigorous; exuberant
旺蒼縣	Wangcang, a county in Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
旺角	Mong Kok (area in Hong Kong)
旻	heaven
旼	gentle and affable
旽	morning sun, sunrise
昀	sun light; used in personal name
昂	to lift; to raise; to raise one's head
昂仁縣	Ngamring, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
昂利	Henri (name)
昂奮	buoyant; high-spirited; vigorous
昂山	Aung San (1915-1947), Burmese general and politician, hero of Myanmar independence movement and father of Aung San Su Kyi 昂山素季[Ang2 Shan1 Su4 Ji4]
昂山素季	Aung San Suu Kyi (1945-), Myanmar opposition leader and 1991 Nobel Peace laureate
昂揚	elated; high-spirited; uplifting (music)
昂撒	Anglo-Saxon
昂昂	high-spirited; brave-looking
昂昂溪區	Ang'angxi, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
昂然	upright and unafraid
昂納克	Honecker (name)
昂船洲	Stonecutters Island
昂藏	tall and strongly built; stalwart; courageous
昂貴	expensive; costly
昂首	head high; in high spirits
昂首天外	(idiom) to raise one's head and look towards the heavens
昂首挺胸	head high, chest out (idiom); to keep up one's spirits
昂首闊步	striding forward with head high (idiom); to walk with spirited and vigorous step
昃	afternoon; decline
昄	great; expansive
昆	descendant; elder brother; a style of Chinese poetry
昆仲	(literary) brothers; elder and younger brother
昆卡	Cuenca (place name and surname)
昆士蘭州	Queensland (Australia)
昆布	kelp
昆廷	Quentin (name)
昆明市	Kunming, prefecture-level city and capital of Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
昆明湖	Kunming Lake
昆汀	Quentin (name); Quentin Tarantino (1963-), American film director
昆汀·塔倫提諾	Quentin Tarantino (1963-), American film director
昆汀·塔倫蒂諾	Quentin Tarantino (1963-), American film director
昆玉	honorific term for another person's brother
昆蟲	insect
昆蟲學	entomology
昆都侖區	Hondlon, a district of Baotou City 包頭市|包头市[Bao1 tou2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
昇	to ascend; to rise (variant of 升[sheng1])
昇平	peaceful
昉	dawn; to begin
昊	vast and limitless; the vast sky
昊天	clear sky
昌	(bound form) prosperous; flourishing
昌原	Changwon City, capital of South Gyeongsang Province 慶尚南道|庆尚南道[Qing4 shang4 nan2 dao4], South Korea
昌原市	Changwon City, capital of South Gyeongsang Province 慶尚南道|庆尚南道[Qing4 shang4 nan2 dao4], South Korea
昌吉回族自治州	Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture, in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
昌吉市	Changji, a county-level city in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
昌圖縣	Changtu, a county in Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
昌寧縣	Changning, a county in Baoshan City 保山市[Bao3 shan1 Shi4], Yunnan
昌平區	Changping, a district of Beijing
昌明	flourishing; thriving
昌樂縣	Changle, a county in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
昌江	Changjiang district of Jingdezhen City 景德鎮市|景德镇市[Jing3 de2 zhen4 Shi4], Jiangxi
昌江區	Changjiang, a district of Jingdezhen City 景德鎮市|景德镇市[Jing3 de2 zhen4 Shi4], Jiangxi
昌江縣	Changjiang Lizu autonomous county, Hainan
昌江黎族自治縣	Changjiang Lizu autonomous county, Hainan
昌盛	prosperous
昌迪加爾	Chandighar, capital of Punjab state of northwest India
昌邑區	Changyi, a district of Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
昌邑市	Changyi, a county-level city in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
昌都市	Qamdo, prefecture-level city in Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
昌黎縣	Changli, a county in Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
明	bright; opposite: dark 暗[an4]; (of meaning) clear
明亮	bright; shining; glittering
明人不做暗事	an honest person does not act surreptitiously (idiom)
明仁	Akihito, personal name of the Heisei 平成[Ping2 cheng2] emperor of Japan (1933-), reigned 1989-2019
明仁宗	Ming Renzong, temple name of fourth Ming emperor Zhu Gaochi 朱高熾|朱高炽[Zhu1 Gao1 chi4]
明代	the Ming dynasty (1368-1644)
明令	to decree
明信片	postcard
明修棧道，暗渡陳倉	lit. repair the plank road by day while secretly crossing the Wei River 渭河[Wei4 He2] at Chencang (idiom, refers to a stratagem used by Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1] in 206 BC against Xiang Yu 項羽|项羽[Xiang4 Yu3] of Chu)
明光市	Mingguang, a county-level city in Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
明光度	luminosity
明兒	(coll.) tomorrow; one of these days; some day
明兒個	(coll.) tomorrow
明初	the early Ming (i.e. from second half of 14th century)
明十三陵	the Ming tombs (mausoleum park of the Ming emperors in Changping district of Beijing)
明升暗降	(idiom) to kick sb upstairs
明古魯	Bengkulu (Indonesian town on the south coast of Sumatra)
明古魯市	Bengkulu (Indonesian town on the south coast of Sumatra)
明史	History of the Ming Dynasty, twenty fourth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Zhang Tingyu 張廷玉|张廷玉[Zhang1 Ting2 yu4] in 1739 during the Qing Dynasty, 332 scrolls
明和	Minghe, rail station in South Taiwan
明哲保身	a wise man looks after his own hide (idiom)
明喻	simile
明報	Ming Pao newspaper (Hong Kong)
明天	tomorrow
明天啟	Tianqi Emperor, reign name of fifteenth Ming emperor Zhu Youxiao 朱由校[Zhu1 You2 xiao4] (1605-1627), reigned 1620-1627, temple name 明熹宗[Ming2 Xi1 zong1]
明天見	(coll., jocular) food that passes through the digestive system more or less intact (esp. enoki mushrooms)
明太祖	Ming Taizu, temple name of first Ming emperor Hongwu 洪武[Hong2 wu3]
明媒正娶	to be officially wed
明媚	bright and beautiful
明孝陵	Ming tombs in Nanjing, tomb of founding Ming emperor Zhu Yuanzhang 朱元璋[Zhu1 Yuan2 zhang1], a World Heritage site
明宣宗	temple name of fifth Ming emperor Xuande 宣德[Xuan1 de2]
明察	to note clearly; to perceive
明察暗訪	open enquiries and secret search (idiom); to investigate openly and in secret
明察秋毫	lit. seeing clearly the downy feathers of autumn (idiom, from Mencius)
明實錄	Ming Veritable Records, imperial annals of the emperors of the Ming Dynasty
明尼蘇達	Minnesota, USA
明尼蘇達州	Minnesota
明尼阿波利斯	Minneapolis, a nameplace in the USA, notably in Minnesota
明山區	Mingshan, a district of Benxi City 本溪市[Ben3 xi1 Shi4], Liaoning
明崗暗哨	both covert and undercover (officers) keeping watch (idiom)
明年	next year
明廚亮灶	"transparent kitchen" – a kitchen (in a restaurant, school cafeteria etc) in which food preparation processes are made visible to customers (by means of transparent glass, live video etc) to promote hygiene and ensure accountability in food safety practices
明德	highest virtue; illustrious virtue
明德學院	Middlebury College, private liberal arts college in Middlebury, Vermont
明志	to demonstrate one's sincere convictions
明快	(of style, mood etc) bright; lively; brisk; prompt; decisive
明慧	intelligent; brilliant
明戀	(slang) to openly express or pursue romantic interest in sb (as opposed to 暗戀|暗恋[an4 lian4])
明成祖	Ming Chengzu, temple name of third Ming Emperor Yongle 永樂|永乐[Yong3 le4]
明手	dummy (in bridge)
明擺著	evident; clear; undoubted
明教	Manichaeism
明文	to state in writing (laws, rules etc)
明文規定	expressly stipulated (in writing)
明斯克	Minsk, capital of Belarus
明日	tomorrow
明日黃花	lit. chrysanthemums after the Double Ninth Festival (idiom)
明早	tomorrow morning; tomorrow
明明	obviously; plainly; undoubtedly
明星	star; celebrity
明晃晃	shining; bright
明晚	tomorrow evening
明晰	clear; well-defined; limpid
明智	sensible; wise; judicious
明智之舉	sensible act
明月	bright moon
明朗	bright; clear; obvious
明朝	tomorrow morning; the following morning
明朝體	Mincho font
明末	late Ming; first half of the 17th century
明杖	white cane (used by the blind)
明槍易躲，暗箭難防	lit. easy to dodge the spear in the open, hard to avoid a stab in the dark (idiom); it is hard to guard against secret conspiracies
明武宗	Ming Wuzong, temple name of eleventh Ming emperor Zhengde 正德[Zheng4 de2]
明水縣	Mingshui, a county in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
明治	Meiji, Japanese era name, corresponding to the reign (1868-1912) of the Meiji emperor
明治維新	Meiji Restoration (Japan, 1868)
明淨	bright and clean; luminous
明清	the Ming (1368-1644) and Qing (1644-1911) dynasties
明渠	(open, uncovered) water channel; canal
明溝	open drainage channel; ditch
明溪縣	Mingxi, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
明滅	to flicker; to flash on and off; to brighten and fade
明澈	clear; limpid
明火	flame; open fire
明熹宗	Ming Xizong, temple name of fifteenth Ming emperor Tianqi 明天啟|明天启[Ming2 Tian1 qi3]
明爭暗鬥	(idiom) to fight openly and maneuver covertly
明珠	pearl; jewel (of great value)
明珠暗投	to cast pearls before swine (idiom)
明理	sensible; reasonable; an obvious reason, truth or fact
明白	clear; obvious; unequivocal; sensible; reasonable
明皎	clear and bright
明目張膽	openly and without fear; brazenly
明眸皓齒	to have bright eyes and white teeth
明眼人	perspicacious person; sb with a discerning eye
明瞭	to understand; to be clear about; clear; comprehensible
明知	to be fully aware of; to know perfectly well
明知山有虎，偏向虎山行	lit. to willfully go towards the mountain although knowing that it has tigers (idiom)
明知故問	(idiom) to ask a question, already knowing the answer
明知故犯	deliberate violation (idiom); intentional crime
明確	clear-cut; definite; explicit
明碼	non-secret code (such as Morse code, Chinese telegraph code, ASCII etc)
明礬	alum
明示	to state explicitly; to clearly indicate
明窗淨几	lit. clear window and clean table (idiom); fig. bright and clean (room)
明細	clear and detailed; definite; details (are as follows:)
明細表	schedule; subsidiary ledger; a detailed list
明膠	gelatin
明處	clear place; out in the open
明蝦	prawn
明裡暗裡	both publicly and privately; both overtly and secretly; both explicitly and implicitly
明言	to say clearly; to argue clearly; to pronounce
明證	clear proof
明辨	to discern; to distinguish clearly
明辨是非	to distinguish right and wrong (idiom)
明達	reasonable; of good judgment
明達事理	reasonable; sensible
明邃	glistening and piercing
明里	publicly; outwardly; professedly
明鎖	exposed lock; external lock (e.g. padlock or surface-mounted latch) (contrasted with 暗鎖|暗锁[an4 suo3] "built-in lock")
明鏡	mirror (as a metaphor for sth beautiful, bright and flat – such as a lake – or sth that provides clarity and insight)
明鏡高懸	perspicacious and impartial in judgment (idiom)
明顯	clear; distinct; obvious
明體	Mincho; Song font
明麗	bright and beautiful; (of a landscape) gorgeous; (of a color) vibrant
昏	muddle-headed; twilight; to faint
昏亂	dazed; confused; fuddled
昏倒	to faint
昏厥	to faint
昏君	incapable ruler
昏天黑地	lit. dark sky and black earth (idiom); fig. pitch dark; to black out
昏定晨省	seeing to bed in the evening and visiting in the morning (ancient filial duty)
昏庸	muddleheaded
昏昏欲睡	drowsy; sleepy (idiom)
昏昏沉沉	(idiom) dizzy
昏暗	dusky
昏沉	murky; dazed; befuddled
昏睡	to sleep heavily (due to illness, fatigue etc)
昏睡病	sleeping sickness; African trypanosomiasis
昏聵	muddle-headed
昏花	dim (eyesight); blurred (vision)
昏迷	to lose consciousness; to be in a coma; stupor
昏迷不醒	to remain unconscious
昏過去	to faint
昏頭	to lose one's head; to be out of one's mind; to be dazed
昏頭昏腦	confused; dizzy; fainting
昑	bright
昒	daybreak; dawn; dusky
易	surname Yi; I Ching; Book of Changes (abbr. for 易經|易经[Yi4 jing1])
易主	(of property) to change owners
易事	easy task
易傳	Yi Zhuan, commentary on the "Book of Changes" or "I Ching" 易經|易经[Yi4 jing1]
易初蓮花	Lotus (department store chain)
易北河	Elbe River
易卜拉欣	(name) Ibrahim or Ebrahim
易卜生	Henrik Ibsen (1828-1906), Norwegian dramatist, author of Doll's House 玩偶之家
易取得	accessible
易司馬儀	Ismail (name)
易如反掌	easy as a hand's turn (idiom); very easy; no effort at all
易孕	(of a woman) fertile; able to get pregnant easily
易學	study of the Book of Changes 易經|易经[Yi4 jing1]
易守難攻	easily guarded, hard to attack
易容	to change one's appearance
易建聯	Yi Jianlian (1987-), Chinese basketball player for the New Jersey Nets (NBA)
易彎	flexible
易感	susceptible
易懂	easy to understand
易手	to change hands
易拉寶	roll-up banner stand
易拉罐	pull-top can; easy-open can (with ring-pull)
易接近	accessible
易揮發	volatile
易損性	vulnerability
易於	very likely; prone to
易洛魁	Iroquois
易溶	soluble
易激惹	irritable
易燃物	flammable substance
易燃物品	flammable articles
易爆	explosive
易理解	easy to grasp; easily understood
易用性	ease of use; usability
易碎	brittle; fragile
易科罰金	to commute a prison sentence to a fine (Tw)
易經	I Ching; Book of Changes
易縣	Yi County or Yixian, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
易腐敗	perishable
易蒙停	Imodium (drug brand name); loperamide (used to treat diarrhea)
易言之	in other words
易讀	legible; readable
易變	mutable; volatile; variable
易變質	perishable
易趣	EachNet, Chinese e-commerce company (formerly owned by eBay and branded as eBay EachNet)
易逝	passing; transient; fugitive
易遊網	ezTravel, Taiwanese travel agency
易門縣	Yimen, a county in Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
易開罐	(Tw) pull-top can; easy-open can (with ring-pull)
易飢症	bulimia
昔	former times; the past; Taiwan pr. [xi2]
昔年	former years; previous years
昔日	former days; in the past
昔陽縣	Xiyang, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
昕	dawn
昝	surname Zan
星	star; heavenly body; satellite
星二代	children of celebrities
星光	starlight
星冰樂	Frappuccino
星名	star name
星命家	astrologer (esp. Daoist)
星圖	star atlas
星團	star cluster
星型網	Star network
星夜	starlit night; by night; under the night sky; through the night
星官	Chinese constellations
星家	astrologist (in former times)
星宿	constellation (arch., now 星座)
星宿海	Xingxiuhai Basin in Qinghai, more than 4000m above sea level, featuring numerous lakes large and small
星島	Sing Tao, Hong Kong media group and publisher of Sing Tao Daily 星島日報|星岛日报
星島日報	Sing Tao Daily, Hong Kong newspaper
星巴克	Starbucks, US coffee shop chain
星座	constellation; astrological sign
星座運勢	(Western-style) horoscope
星斗	stars
星星	(coll.) a star; the stars in the sky
星星之火	a single spark (idiom); an insignificant cause can have a massive effect
星星之火，可以燎原	a single spark can start a huge blaze (idiom); an insignificant cause can have a massive effect
星曆	astronomic calendar
星曜	heavenly bodies (esp. the sun, moon or five visible planets)
星月	the moon and the stars
星期	week; day of the week; Sunday
星期一	Monday
星期三	Wednesday
星期二	Tuesday
星期五	Friday
星期六	Saturday
星期四	Thursday
星期天	Sunday
星期幾	which day of the week
星期日	Sunday
星條旗	Stars and Stripes, the flag of the United States
星洲	Singapore
星洲日報	Sin Chew Daily, Malaysian newspaper
星流霆擊	meteor shower and violent thunderclaps (idiom); omens of violent development
星海爭霸	StarCraft (video game series) (Tw)
星漢	Milky Way
星火	spark
星球	celestial body (e.g. planet, satellite etc); heavenly body
星球大戰	Star Wars
星盤	(astronomy) astrolabe; (astrology) horoscope; astrological chart
星相	astrology and physiognomy
星相十足	(coll.) to look every bit the big star
星相圖	star chart
星相學	astrology
星相家	astrologer
星相師	astrologer
星相術	astrology
星移斗轉	lit. the Big Dipper 北斗星[Bei3 dou3 xing1] has turned and the stars have moved
星空	starry sky; the star-studded heavens
星等	magnitude of a star
星系盤	galactic disc
星級	star rating; top-class; highly rated
星羅棋布	scattered about like stars in the sky or chess pieces on a board (idiom); spread all over the place
星群	(astronomy) asterism
星號	asterisk * (punct.)
星術	astrology
星表	star catalog
星象	aspect of the celestial bodies (used for navigation and astrology)
星象圖	star chart; also written 星相圖|星相图
星辰	stars
星際	interstellar; interplanetary
星際大戰	(Tw) Star Wars
星際旅行	Star Trek (US TV and film series)
星際爭霸	StarCraft (video game series)
星雲	nebula
星雲表	catalog of stars and nebulae
星頭啄木鳥	(bird species of China) grey-capped pygmy woodpecker (Yungipicus canicapillus)
星馬	Singapore and Malaysia (abbr. for 新加坡[Xin1 jia1 po1], aka 星洲[Xing1 zhou1] + 馬來西亞|马来西亚[Ma3 lai2 xi1 ya4])
星馬泰	Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand (abbr. for 新加坡[Xin1 jia1 po1], aka 星洲[Xing1 zhou1] + 馬來西亞|马来西亚[Ma3 lai2 xi1 ya4] + 泰國|泰国[Tai4 guo2])
星馳	rapidly
星體	(astronomy) celestial body (e.g. planets, moons)
星鴉	(bird species of China) spotted nutcracker (Nucifraga caryocatactes)
映	(bound form) to become visible (esp. on a surface or in perception)
映像	reflection; image (in a mirror)
映像管	CRT (cathode ray tube) used in a computer monitor or TV, aka picture tube (Tw)
映入	to appear before (one's eyes); to come to (one's mind)
映入眼簾	(idiom) to greet the eye; to come into view
映入腦海	to come to mind; to come to one's attention
映射	to shine on; (math., linguistics etc) mapping
映射過程	mapping process
映山紅	Indian azalea (Rhododendron simsii)
映演	(Tw) to screen a movie
映照	to shine upon; to reflect
映襯	to set off by contrast; antithesis; analogy parallelism (linguistics)
映象文件	(computing) disk image (aka image file); ISO image
昡	long day; extended; relaxed
昣	(literary) bright
昤	sunshine
春	spring (season); gay; joyful
春令	spring; springtime; spring weather
春假	spring break
春光	scenes of springtime; the radiance of spring
春光乍泄	spring sunshine emerges to bring the world alive (idiom)
春光明媚	lovely spring sunshine
春凳	(old) wooden bench
春分	Chunfen or Spring Equinox, 4th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 21st March-4th April
春分點	the spring equinox
春化	(agriculture) vernalization
春困	spring fatigue; spring fever
春夏秋冬	the four seasons; spring, summer, autumn and winter
春夢	spring dream; short-lived illusion; erotic dream
春大麥	spring barley
春天	spring (season)
春婦	prostitute
春季	springtime
春宮	Crown Prince's chambers; by extension, the Crown Prince
春宵	(literary) spring night; (fig.) wedding night
春岑	Hill of Spring (derivation of Tel Aviv 特拉維夫|特拉维夫 from the book of Ezekiel 以西結書|以西结书)
春川市	Chuncheon city, capital of Gangwon province 江原道[Jiang1 yuan2 dao4], South Korea
春心	amorous feelings; stirrings of love
春情	amorous feelings
春意	beginning of spring; thoughts of love
春捲	egg roll; spring roll
春播	(agriculture) to sow in spring
春日	springtime
春日部	Kasukabe (city in Japan)
春晚	abbr. for 春節聯歡晚會|春节联欢晚会[Chun1 jie2 Lian2 huan1 Wan3 hui4]
春景	spring scenery
春暉	lit. spring sunshine; fig. parental (often maternal) love
春暖花開	(lit.) springtime when the weather is warm and flowers are in bloom (idiom)
春柳	Spring Willow Society, pioneering Chinese theatrical company set up in Tokyo in 1906, part of New Culture Movement 新文化運動|新文化运动[Xin1 Wen2 hua4 Yun4 dong4], continued in China from 1912 as 新劇同志會|新剧同志会[Xin1 ju4 Tong2 zhi4 hui4]
春柳劇場	Spring Willow Society, pioneering Chinese theatrical company set up in Tokyo in 1906, part of New Culture Movement 新文化運動|新文化运动[Xin1 Wen2 hua4 Yun4 dong4], continued in China from 1912 as 新劇同志會|新剧同志会[Xin1 ju4 Tong2 zhi4 hui4]
春柳社	Spring Willow Society, pioneering Chinese theatrical company set up in Tokyo in 1906, part of New Culture Movement 新文化運動|新文化运动[Xin1 Wen2 hua4 Yun4 dong4], continued in China from 1912 as 新劇同志會|新剧同志会[Xin1 ju4 Tong2 zhi4 hui4]
春武里府	Chonburi province of east Thailand
春水	(literary) the water in rivers, lakes etc during spring, esp. after snowmelt or spring rains
春汛	spring flood
春江水暖鴨先知	lit. the duck is the first to know if the spring water is warm (idiom)
春江花月夜	River on a spring night, long yuefu poem by 張若虛|张若虚[Zhang1 Ruo4 xu1]
春灌	spring irrigation
春燈謎	Spring lantern riddles (guessing game at Lantern Festival 元宵節|元宵节, at the end of Spring festival 春節|春节)
春生，夏長，秋收，冬藏	sow in spring, develop in summer, harvest in autumn, store in winter (idiom)
春畫	erotic print; pornographic picture
春秋	Spring and Autumn Period (770-476 BC)
春秋三傳	Three Commentaries on the Spring and Autumn Annals 春秋[Chun1 qiu1], including Mr Gongyang's annals 公羊傳|公羊传[Gong1 yang2 Zhuan4], Mr Guliang's annals 穀梁傳|谷梁传[Gu3 liang2 Zhuan4] and Mr Zuo's annals or Zuo Zhuan 左傳|左传[Zuo3 Zhuan4]
春秋五霸	the Five Hegemons of the Spring and Autumn period (770-476 BC), namely: Duke Huan of Qi 齊桓公|齐桓公[Qi2 Huan2 gong1], Duke Wen of Jin 晉文公|晋文公[Jin4 Wen2 gong1], King Zhuang of Chu 楚莊王|楚庄王[Chu3 Zhuang1 wang2], and alternatively Duke Xiang of Song 宋襄公[Song4 Xiang1 gong1] and Duke Mu of Qin 秦穆公[Qin2 Mu4 gong1] or King Helu of Wu 吳王闔閭|吴王阖闾[Wu2 wang2 He2 Lu:2] and King Gou Jian of Yue 越王勾踐|越王勾践[Yue4 wang2 Gou1 Jian4]
春秋大夢	grand dreams; unrealistic ideas (idiom)
春秋左氏傳	Mr Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals, attributed to famous blind historian Zuo Qiuming 左丘明[Zuo3 Qiu1 ming2]
春秋戰國	the Spring and Autumn (770-476 BC) and Warring States (475-221 BC) periods
春秋戰國時代	the Spring and Autumn (770-476 BC) and Warring States (475-221 BC) periods
春秋時代	Spring and Autumn Period (770-476 BC)
春秋繁露	Luxuriant Dew of the Spring and Autumn Annals, ideological tract by Han dynasty political philosopher Dong Zhongshu 董仲舒[Dong3 Zhong4 shu1]
春秋鼎盛	the prime of one's life
春筍	springtime bamboo shoots
春節	Spring Festival (Chinese New Year)
春節聯歡晚會	CCTV New Year's Gala, Chinese New Year special
春耕	to plow a field in the spring
春聯	Spring Festival couplet (the first line of which is pasted on the right side of a doorway at New Year, and the second on the left side)
春興	carnal desire
春色	colors of spring; spring scenery
春茶	tea leaves gathered at springtime or the tea made from these leaves
春菇	spring mushroom
春藥	aphrodisiac
春蠶	Silkworms in Spring (1933), Chinese silent movie in socialist realist style, based on novel by Mao Dun 茅盾[Mao2 Dun4]
春裝	spring clothing; spring clothes
春試	metropolitan civil service examination (held triennially in spring in imperial times)
春遊	spring outing; spring excursion
春運	(increased) passenger transportation around Chinese New Year
春酒	banquet to celebrate the Spring Festival
春闈	metropolitan civil service examination (held triennially in spring in imperial times)
春雨	spring rain; gift from above
春霖	spring rains
春風	spring breeze
春風一度	to have sexual intercourse (once)
春風化雨	lit. spring wind and rain (idiom); fig. the long-term influence of a solid education
春風和氣	(idiom) amiable as a spring breeze
春風得意	flushed with success; proud of one's success (in exams, promotion etc)
春風深醉的晚上	Intoxicating Spring Nights, 1924 short story by Yu Dafu 郁達夫|郁达夫[Yu4 Da2 fu1]
春餅	spring pancake, a Chinese flatbread wrap
春黃菊	yellow chrysanthemum; chamomile (Anthemis spp.)
春黃菊屬	Anthemis, genus of flowers in Compositae including chamomile
昧	to conceal; dark
昧心	against one's conscience
昧旦	the time just before daybreak
昧死	to risk one's life
昧沒	veiled; obscure
昧良心	it goes against one's conscience
昨	yesterday
昨兒	(coll.) yesterday
昨兒個	(coll.) yesterday
昨夜	last night
昨天	yesterday
昨日	yesterday
昨晚	yesterday evening; last night
昪	(literary) (of sunlight) bright
昫	balmy; nicely warm; cozy
昭	bright; clear; manifest
昭儀	first-rank concubine (title for an imperial concubine ranked one level below the empress)
昭化區	Zhaohua, a district of Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
昭和	Shōwa, Japanese era name, corresponding to the reign (1925-1989) of emperor Hirohito 裕仁[Yu4 ren2]
昭平縣	Zhaoping, a county in Hezhou City 賀州市|贺州市[He4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
昭披耶帕康	Chao Phraya Phra Klang (Royal Finance and External Affairs Minister), the honorary title of the 18th century official of the royal court of Thailand who translated 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4] (Romance of the Three Kingdoms) into Thai
昭披耶河	Chao Phraya River, the main river of Thailand
昭然若揭	abundantly clear
昭示	to declare publicly; to make clear
昭蘇縣	Zhaosu, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
昭覺縣	Zhaojue, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
昭通市	Zhaotong, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
昭陽區	Zhaoyang, a district of Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
昭雪	to exonerate; to clear (from an accusation); to rehabilitate
是	to be (followed by substantives only); correct; right; true
是不是	is or is not (used to form yes-no questions)
是以	therefore; thus; so
是可忍，孰不可忍	if this can be tolerated, what cannot? (idiom); enough is enough
是否	whether (or not); if; is or isn't
是味兒	(of food) to have the right taste; (of people) to feel at ease
是德科技	Keysight Technologies (instrumentation company)
是拉差	sriracha (loanword)
是故	therefore; so; consequently
是日	(formal) this day; that day
是次	(formal) this time
是的	yes, that's right
是荷	(written) (at the end of a request in letters) I would be much obliged
是藥三分毒	every medicine has its side effect
是非	right and wrong; quarrel
是非不分	unable to distinguish right and wrong (idiom)
是非之地	trouble spot; sketchy area
是非分明	to distinguish right from wrong (idiom)
是非曲直	lit. right and wrong, crooked and straight (idiom); fig. merits and demerits
是非自有公論	to determine right and wrong based on public opinion (idiom)
是非莫辨	unable to distinguish right and wrong (idiom)
是騾子是馬，牽出來遛遛	lit. to see whether it's a mule or a horse, take it out for a walk (idiom)
昱	bright light
昱日	(Tw) the following day
昳	the declining sun in the west
昴	the Pleiades
昴宿星團	Pleiades M45
昴星團	Pleiades M45
昵愛	to love dearly; intimacy; close love
昵比	intimate
昶	(of the day) long
昺	bright; glorious
晁	surname Chao
時	o'clock; time; when
時下	at present; right now
時不再來	Time that has passed will never come back. (idiom)
時不我待	(idiom) time and tide wait for no man
時不時	from time to time
時乖命蹇	bad times, adverse fate (idiom)
時事	current trends; the present situation; how things are going
時人	(literary) people of that time; contemporaries
時代	Time, US weekly news magazine
時代廣場	Times Square
時代曲	shidaiqu, a musical genre that originated in Shanghai in the 1920s, a fusion of Chinese folk music and Western jazz
時代華納	Time Warner Inc., US media company
時令	season
時任	then (as in "the then chairman")
時來運轉	the time comes, fortune turns (idiom); to have a lucky break
時俗	prevalent custom of the time
時候	time; length of time; moment
時價	current price
時光	time (esp. as sth that passes)
時光機	time machine
時分	time; period during the day
時刻	time; juncture; moment
時刻準備	ready at any moment
時刻表	timetable; schedule
時勢	current situation; circumstances; current trend
時勢造英雄	Time makes the man (idiom). The trend of events brings forth the hero.
時區	time zone
時報	"Times" (newspaper, e.g. New York Times)
時大時小	sometimes big, sometimes small; varying
時好時壞	sometimes good, sometimes bad
時宜	contemporary expectations
時寫時輟	to write for a bit then give up; to write in fits and starts
時尚	fashion; fad; fashionable
時局	current political situation
時差	time difference; time lag; jet lag
時常	often; frequently
時序	timing (of a signal or sequence); time course
時延	(electronics) delay; latency
時弊	ills of the day; contemporary problems
時式	fashionable style; (linguistics) tense
時態	(verb) tense
時戳	timestamp
時政	current politics; political situation of the time
時效	timeliness; period of viability or validity
時效性	sensitivity to timing; time-sensitive; timeliness
時效法	(law) statute of limitations
時文	(historical) imperial examination essay; eight-legged essay 八股文[ba1 gu3 wen2]
時斷時續	stopping and starting; intermittent; sporadic
時日	time; auspicious time; time and date
時日無多	time is limited (idiom)
時時	often; constantly
時時刻刻	at all times
時有所聞	heard from time to time; one keeps hearing that...
時期	period; phase
時機	opportunity; opportune moment
時段	time interval; work shift; time slot
時租	to rent by the hour
時程	timetable; schedule
時空	time and place; world of a particular locale and era
時空旅行	time travel
時空穿梭	time travel
時空穿越	time travel
時空膠囊	(Tw) time capsule
時空錯置	having elements from another time or place
時空錯置感	sense of being in another time and place
時節	season; time
時綏	peace all year round (old letter closing)
時而	occasionally; from time to time
時至今日	(idiom) up to the present; even now; now (in contrast with the past)
時興	fashionable; popular
時菜	seasonal vegetable
時蔬	seasonal vegetables
時薪	hourly wage
時裝	fashion; fashionable clothes
時裝劇	contemporary drama
時裝秀	fashion show
時裝表演	fashion show
時裝鞋	dress shoes
時訊	news; current events
時調	regional folk song popular during a certain period of time
時辰	time; one of the 12 two-hour periods of the day
時辰未到	the time has not yet come
時速	speed per hour
時運	circumstances; fate
時運不濟	fate is unfavorable (idiom); the omens are not good
時運亨通	our luck is in, everything is going smoothly (idiom)
時過境遷	things change with the passage of time (idiom)
時針	hand of a clock; hour hand
時鐘	clock
時鐘座	Horologium (constellation)
時長	duration
時間	(concept of) time; (duration of) time; (point in) time
時間不早了	it's getting late; time's getting on
時間區間	time interval
時間囊	time capsule
時間差	difference in timing; time gap; time lag
時間差攻擊	(volleyball) attacking tactic in which the blocker is induced to commit early, creating an opening for the actual attack
時間序列	time series (stats.)
時間戳	timestamp
時間是把殺豬刀	lit. time is a butcher's knife
時間測定學	chronometry
時間簡史	"A Brief History of Time" by Stephen Hawking
時間線	timeline
時間膠囊	time capsule
時間表	schedule; timetable
時間軸	time axis; timeline
時間進程	time course
時間點	point in time
時限	time limit
時隔	separated in time (usu. followed by a quantity of time)
時隱時現	appearing and disappearing (idiom); intermittently visible
時雍	concord; harmony
時顯時隱	appearing and disappearing; intermittently visible
時髦	in vogue; fashionable
時點	point of time (in time-based systems)
晃	to sway; to shake; to wander about
晃動	to shake; to sway; to rock
晃悠	to swing; to sway; to wobble
晃晃悠悠	swaying; wobbling
晃蕩	to rock; to sway; to shake
晅	light of the sun; to dry in the sun
晉	surname Jin; the Jin Dynasties (265–420)
晉中市	Jinzhong, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
晉代	Jin Dynasty (265-420)
晉升	to promote to a higher position
晉城市	Jincheng, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
晉安區	Jin'an, a district of Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
晉察冀	Shanxi 山西[Shan1 xi1], Chahar 察哈爾|察哈尔[Cha2 ha1 er3] and Hebei 河北[He2 bei3] (three provinces of the Republic of China in the period 1912-1936)
晉寧區	Jinning, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
晉州	Jin Prefecture, established under the Northern Wei dynasty in 528, centered on present-day Linfen 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4] in Shanxi
晉州市	Jinzhou, a county-level city in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
晉惠帝	Emperor Hui of Jin (259-307), personal name 司馬衷|司马衷[Si1 ma3 Zhong1], 2nd emperor of Jin Dynasty 晉朝|晋朝[Jin4 chao2], reigned 290-307
晉文公	Duke Wen of Jin (697-628 BC, reigned 636-628 BC), one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸[Chun1 qiu1 Wu3 ba4]
晉書	History of the Jin Dynasty, fifth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Fang Xuanling 房玄齡|房玄龄[Fang2 Xuan2 ling2] in 648 during Tang Dynasty 唐朝[Tang2 chao2], 130 scrolls
晉朝	Jin Dynasty (265-420)
晉江市	Jinjiang, a county-level city in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
晉源區	Jinyuan, a district of Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
晉爵	to join the nobility; to rise through the nobility
晉級	to advance in rank; promotion; advancement
晉縣	Jin county in Hebei
晉見	to have an audience with
晉鐸	(Catholicism) to be ordained as a priest
晌	part of the day; midday
晌午	noon
晏	surname Yan
晏嬰	Yan Ying (-c 500 BC), famous statesman from Qi of the Warring States, also known as Yanzi 晏子[Yan4 zi3] , hero of book 晏子春秋[Yan4 zi3 Chun1 qiu1]
晏子	Yanzi (-c 500 BC), famous statesman from Qi of the Warring States 齊國|齐国[Qi2 guo2], also known as 晏嬰|晏婴[Yan4 Ying1], hero of book 晏子春秋[Yan4 zi3 Chun1 qiu1]
晏子春秋	Tales of Yanzi, book describing the life and wisdom of Yanzi 晏子 (-c 500 BC), famous statesman from Qi of the Warring States
晏平仲	another name for Yan Ying 晏嬰|晏婴[Yan4 Ying1] or Yanzi 晏子[Yan4 zi3] (-500 BC), famous statesman from Qi of the Warring States 齊國|齐国[Qi2 guo2]
晏駕	to die (exclusively of the Emperor)
晑	bright; clear
晗	before daybreak; dawn about to break; (used in given names)
晙	(literary) early morning; (literary) bright; (used in names)
晚	evening; night; late
晚上	evening; night; in the evening
晚上好	Good evening!
晚世	nowadays
晚半天兒	late afternoon
晚報	evening newspaper; (in a newspaper's name) Evening News
晚場	evening show (at theater etc)
晚婚晚育	to marry and give birth late
晚安	Good night!; Good evening!
晚宴	banquet; dinner party; soiree
晚年	one's later years
晚晌	evening
晚景	evening scene; circumstances of one's declining years
晚會	evening party
晚期	later period; end stage; terminal
晚期癌症	terminal cancer
晚歸	to return late; to come home late
晚清	the late Qing; late 19th and early 20th century China
晚熟	(of crops or people) late-maturing
晚班	night shift
晚生	I (self-deprecatory, in front of elders) (old)
晚禮服	evening dress
晚禱	evening prayer; evensong; vespers
晚節不保	(idiom) to tarnish one's reputation in later life; to lose prestige at a later stage
晚育	late childbirth; to have a child at a later age
晚自習	scheduled evening self-study period; evening study hall
晚車	night train
晚輩	the younger generation; those who come after
晚近	most recent in the past; recent; late
晚間	evening; night
晚霞	sunset glow; sunset clouds; afterglow
晚飯	evening meal; dinner; supper
晚餐	evening meal; dinner
晚點	(of trains etc) late; delayed; behind schedule
晛	to appear (of sun)
晜	descendant; elder brother
晝	daytime
晝伏夜出	nocturnal; to hide by day and come out at night
晝夜	day and night; period of 24 hours; continuously, without stop
晝夜平分點	the equinox
晝夜節律	circadian rhythm
晝行性	diurnality; diurnal
晞	dawn; to dry in the sun
晟	brightness of sun; splendor; also pr. [cheng2]
晡	3-5 p.m.
晢	bright
晤	to meet (socially)
晤談	to speak face to face; meeting; interview
晤面	to meet (in person); to meet with sb
晦	(bound form) last day of a lunar month; (bound form) dark; gloomy
晦暗	dark and gloomy
晦氣	bad luck; unlucky; calamitous
晦澀	difficult to understand; cryptic
晨	morning; dawn; daybreak
晨勃	morning erection
晨報	morning newspaper; (in a newspaper's name) Morning Post
晨昏	morning and twilight; day and night
晨昏定省	morning and evening visits to parents; cf 昏定晨省[hun1 ding4 chen2 xing3]
晨星	morning stars
晨曦	first rays of morning sun; first glimmer of dawn
晨歌	morning chorus (birdsong)
晨禱	(Anglican) matins; (Catholic) lauds
晨練	morning exercise
晨跑	to go for a morning run
晨鐘暮鼓	lit. morning bell, evening drum, symbolizing monastic practice (idiom); fig. encouragement to study or progress
晨間	(of the) morning
晨露	morning dew
晪	(literary) bright
晫	(literary) splendorous
晬	1st birthday of a child
普	general; popular; everywhere
普丁	(Tw) Vladimir Putin (1952–), Russian president
普世	universal; worldwide
普京	Vladimir Putin (1952–), Russian president
普什圖語	Pashtu (one of the languages of Afghanistan)
普信	(Internet slang) overly confident despite being average
普信男	(neologism, attested by 2020) an ordinary guy who imagines he is God's gift to womankind
普列謝茨克	Plesetsk, settlement in Arkhangelsk Oblast, Russia
普列謝茨克衛星發射場	Plesetsk Cosmodrome, Arkhangelsk Oblast, Russia
普利司通	Bridgestone (tire company)
普利托里亞	Pretoria, capital of South Africa (Tw)
普利策獎	Pulitzer Prize
普利茅斯	Plymouth
普加喬夫	Yemelyan Ivanovich Pugachov (1742-1775), Russian Cossack, leader of peasant rebellion 1773-1775 against Catherine the Great
普及	to spread extensively; to generalize; widespread
普吉	Phuket (city in Thailand)
普埃布拉	Puebla, a city southeast of Mexico City
普外科	(medicine) general surgery (abbr. for 普通外科[pu3 tong1 wai4 ke1])
普天下	throughout the world
普天之下	(idiom) all under heaven; in the whole world; throughout the world
普天同慶	everybody celebrating together; universal celebration
普契尼	Puccini
普安縣	Pu'an, a county in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
普定縣	Puding, a county in Anshun City 安順市|安顺市[An1 shun4 Shi4], Guizhou
普密蓬·阿杜德	Bhumibol Adulyadej (1927-2016), king of Thailand 1946-2016
普寧市	Puning, a county-level city in Jieyang City 揭陽市|揭阳市[Jie1 yang2 Shi4], Guangdong
普布斯	Tillandsia pueblensis, a species of air plants
普希金	Alexandr Sergeevich Pushkin (1799-1837), great Russian romantic poet
普度眾生	(Buddhism) to deliver all living creatures from suffering (idiom)
普惠	inclusive; accessible and affordable for everyone
普拉	Pula (city in Croatia)
普拉亞	Praia, capital of Cape Verde
普拉提	Pilates (physical fitness system)
普拉達	Prada (brand)
普普藝術	(Tw) (loanword) pop art
普普通通	ordinary; mediocre; nothing special
普朗克	Max Planck (1858-1947), German physicist
普朗克常數	(physics) Planck's constant h, approximately 6.626 x 10⁻³⁴ joule.seconds
普林	(Tw) (loanword) purine
普林斯頓	Princeton, New Jersey
普林斯頓大學	Princeton University
普查	census; general survey; general investigation
普格縣	Puge, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
普桑	a model of Volkswagen Santana based on the Passat B2; Poussin (name)
普氏	Nikolai Mikhailovich Przevalski 普爾熱瓦爾斯基|普尔热瓦尔斯基 (1839-1888), Russian explorer who made four expeditions to Central Asian from 1870
普氏小羚羊	Przevalski's gazelle (Procapra przewalskii) of Central Asia
普氏立克次體	Rickettsia prowazekii
普氏野馬	Przevalski horse (Equus przewalskii) wild horse of Central Asia first identified in 1881 by Nikolai Mikhailovich Przevalski 普爾熱瓦爾斯基|普尔热瓦尔斯基
普法	to disseminate knowledge of the law
普法戰爭	Franco-Prussian War (1870-1871)
普洱市	Pu'er, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
普洱茶	Pu'er tea, a type of black tea produced in the Pu'er region of southwestern Yunnan
普渡	(Buddhism, Daoism) to deliver all sentient beings from suffering
普渡大學	Purdue University
普濟眾生	universal mercy and succor (idiom); the Buddha's infinite power and mercy
普照	(of sunlight) to bathe all things; to shine gloriously
普爾熱瓦爾斯基	Nikolai Mikhailovich Przevalski (1839-1888), Russian explorer who made four expeditions to Central Asian from 1870
普立茲獎	Pulitzer Prize (Tw)
普米	Pumi ethnic group
普米族	Pumi ethnic group
普級	(classification) general; non-specialist
普羅	proletariat (loanword)
普羅列塔利亞	proletariat (loanword)
普羅大眾	proletariat
普羅夫迪夫	Plovdiv, city in Bulgaria
普羅扎克	Prozac (also marketed as Fluoxetine)
普羅提諾	Plotinus (204-270), Neoplatonism philosopher
普羅旺斯	Provence (south of France)
普羅旺斯語	Provençal (language)
普羅科菲夫	Sergei Prokofiev (1891-1953), Russian composer
普羅米修斯	Prometheus, a Titan god of fire in Greek mythology
普羅維登斯	Providence, capital of Rhode Island
普羅迪	(surname) Prodi
普考	examination for lower levels of Taiwan government service (short for 普通考試|普通考试[pu3 tong1 kao3 shi4])
普萊斯	Price (name)
普萊費爾	(surname) Playfair
普萘洛爾	propranolol (beta-blocker used to treat high blood pressure)
普蘭店區	Pulandian, a district of Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
普蘭縣	Purang, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
普西	psi (Greek letter Ψψ)
普賢	Samantabhadra, the Buddhist Lord of Truth
普賢菩薩	Samantabhadra, the Buddhist Lord of Truth
普賽	psi (Greek letter Ψψ)
普通	common; ordinary; general
普通中學	general middle school
普通人	ordinary person; private citizen; people
普通名詞	common noun (grammar)
普通夜鷹	(bird species of China) grey nightjar (Caprimulgus jotaka)
普通教育	general education
普通朱雀	(bird species of China) common rosefinch (Carpodacus erythrinus)
普通樓燕	(bird species of China) common swift (Apus apus)
普通民眾	ordinary people; the masses
普通法	common law
普通海鷗	(bird species of China) common gull (Larus canus)
普通潛鳥	(bird species of China) common loon (Gavia immer)
普通燕鴴	(bird species of China) oriental pratincole (Glareola maldivarum)
普通燕鷗	(bird species of China) common tern (Sterna hirundo)
普通秋沙鴨	(bird species of China) common merganser (Mergus merganser)
普通秧雞	(bird species of China) brown-cheeked rail (Rallus indicus)
普通翠鳥	(bird species of China) common kingfisher (Alcedo atthis)
普通老百姓	common people; average people; hoi polloi
普通股	common stock
普通角閃石	hornblende (rock-forming mineral, type of amphibole)
普通話	Putonghua; standard Mandarin
普通話水平測試	Putonghua Proficiency Test, an official test of spoken fluency in Standard Chinese for native speakers of Chinese languages, developed in the PRC in 1994
普通赤楊	alder tree (Alnus glutinosa)
普通車	local train; ordinary vehicle
普通高中	general academic senior high school (as opposed to vocational high schools)
普通高等學校招生全國統一考試	NCEE, National College Entrance Examination (college entrance exam in PRC)
普通鳾	(bird species of China) Eurasian nuthatch (Sitta europaea)
普通鵟	(bird species of China) eastern buzzard (Buteo japonicus)
普通鷹鵑	(bird species of China) common hawk-cuckoo (Hierococcyx varius)
普通鸕鶿	(bird species of China) great cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo)
普遍	universal; general; widespread
普遍化	generalization (logic)
普遍性	ubiquity; universality
普遍性假設	universal hypothesis
普適	universal
普選	universal suffrage
普選權	universal suffrage
普里什蒂納	Pristina, capital of Kosovo 科索沃
普里切特	Pratchett (name)
普陀區	Putuo district, central Shanghai
普陀山	Mt Potala at Zhoushan 舟山市 in Zhejiang, one of the Four Sacred Mountains and Bodhimanda of Guanyin 觀音|观音 (Avalokiteśvara)
普降	precipitation over a large area; widespread rain
普雷克斯流程	purex
普雷斯堡	Pressburg (Slovakia)
普雷斯頓	Preston, city in England
普食	(medicine) regular food
普高	general academic senior high school (as opposed to vocational high schools) (abbr. for 普通高中[pu3 tong1 gao1 zhong1])
普魯卡因	procaine (nerve blocking agent) (loanword)
普魯士	Prussia (historical German state)
普魯斯特	Marcel Proust (1871-1922), French author
普魯東	Pierre-Joseph Proudhon (1809-1865), French socialist philosopher
普魯東主義	Proudhonism, 19th century socialist theory
景	(bound form) scenery; circumstance; situation
景仰	to admire; to revere; to look up to
景區	scenic area
景寧畲族自治縣	Jingning She Autonomous County, in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
景山	Jingshan (name of a hill in Jingshan park)
景山公園	Jingshan Park (park in Beijing)
景德鎮市	Jingdezhen, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
景教	Nestorian Christianity
景東彝族自治縣	Jingdong Yi Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
景氣	(of economy, business etc) flourishing; prosperous
景況	circumstances
景泰	Jingtai Emperor, reign name of seventh Ming Emperor Zhu Qiyu 朱祁鈺|朱祁钰[Zhu1 Qi2 yu4] (1428–1457), reigned 1449–1457, temple name 代宗[Dai4 zong1]
景泰縣	Jingtai, a county in Baiyin City 白銀市|白银市[Bai2 yin2 Shi4], Gansu
景泰藍	cloisonne; cloisonné
景洪市	Jinghong, a county-level city in Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture 西雙版納傣族自治州|西双版纳傣族自治州[Xi1 shuang1 ban3 na4 Dai3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
景深	depth of field
景物	scenery
景福宮	Gyeongbokgung palace in central Seoul
景縣	Jing County or Jingxian, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
景致	view; scenery; scene
景色	scenery; landscape; view
景觀	landscape
景觀設計	landscape design
景谷傣族彝族自治縣	Jinggu Dai and Yi Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
景象	scene; sight (to behold)
景遇	(literary) circumstances
景頗	Jingpo ethnic group
景頗族	Jingpo ethnic group
景點	tourist attraction; scenic spot
晰	clear; distinct
晴	clear; fine (weather)
晴天	clear sky; sunny day
晴天娃娃	teru teru bōzu (traditional Japanese doll hung outside windows in hope of sunny weather)
晴天霹靂	lit. thunderclap from a clear sky (idiom); fig. a bolt from the blue
晴好	bright and sunny weather
晴時多雲	mostly sunny; mostly clear (meteorology)
晴朗	sunny and cloudless
晴空	clear sky; cloudless sky
晴空萬里	a clear and boundless sky
晴隆縣	Qinglong, a county in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
晴雨	rain or shine
晴雨表	(lit. and fig.) barometer
晶	crystal
晶亮	bright; glittering
晶光	glittering light
晶圓	wafer (used as a substrate for fabricating microchips)
晶振	crystal oscillator
晶明	bright; shiny
晶晶	glistening; gleaming; lustrous
晶格	crystal lattice (the regular 3-dimensional pattern formed by atoms in a crystal)
晶片	(Tw) (computing) chip
晶狀	crystalline
晶狀體	lens; crystalline lens
晶瑩	sparkling and translucent
晶系	crystal system
晶閘管	(electronics) silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR); thyristor
晶體	crystal
晶體管	transistor
晶體結構	crystal structure
晷	sundial
智	(literary) wise; wisdom
智人	Homo sapiens
智利	Chile
智力	intelligence; intellect
智力低下	mental retardation
智力測驗	intelligence test
智力玩具	educational toy
智取	to take by ruse; to outwit; to outsmart
智商	IQ (intelligence quotient)
智商稅	stupid tax; unwise purchase
智囊團	think tank; brain trust
智囊機構	think tank; brain trust
智多星	resourceful person; mastermind
智庫	think tank; intellectual resource
智性戀	sapiosexuality
智慧	wisdom; intelligence
智慧型手機	smartphone (Tw)
智慧產權	intellectual property
智慧財產	intellectual property (Tw)
智慧齒	wisdom tooth
智熄	(slang) extremely foolish; beyond stupid (pun on 窒息[zhi4 xi1])
智牙	wisdom tooth
智珠在握	lit. to hold the pearl of wisdom (idiom)
智異山	Jirisan or Mount Chiri, mountain in the south of South Korea
智神星	Pallas, an asteroid, discovered in 1802 by H.W. Olbers
智者	sage; wise man; clever and knowledgeable person
智者千慮，必有一失	lit. a wise person reflecting a thousand times can still make a mistake (idiom); fig. nobody is infallible
智育	intellectual development
智能	intelligent; able; smart (phone, system, bomb etc)
智能卡	smart card
智能手機	smartphone
智能手錶	smartwatch
智能設計	intelligent design (religion)
智能障礙	intellectual disability; cognitive disability; learning disability
智能體	(computing) intelligent agent; AI agent
智謀	resourcefulness; ingenuity
智識	knowledge; learning; (attributive) intellectual
智障	learning difficulties (handicap); retarded
智障人士	person with learning difficulties (handicap); retarded person
智顗	Zhiyi (538-597), founder of the Tiantai sect of Buddhism
智駕	(automotive technology) intelligent driving (abbr. for 智能駕駛|智能驾驶[zhi4 neng2 jia4 shi3])
智齒	wisdom tooth
晾	to dry in the air; (fig.) to cold-shoulder
晾乾	to dry (sth) by airing
晾曬	to sun-dry
晾衣夾	clothes pin
晾衣架	clothes drying rack
晾衣繩	clothesline
晿	(used in names)
暄	genial and warm
暄騰	soft and warm (of bread)
暆	(of the sun) declining
暇	leisure
暈	dizzy; halo; ring around moon or sun
暈乎	dizzy; giddy
暈倒	to faint; to swoon; to black out
暈厥	to faint
暈場	to faint from stress (during exam, on stage etc)
暈染	to smudge (become smeared); to smudge (create a blurred effect)
暈機	to become airsick
暈死	Geez!; Shoot!; No way!
暈池	to faint in the bathroom (from heat)
暈眩	to feel dizzy; dizziness
暈碳	to experience a carb coma; to feel sleepy after eating a large amount of carbohydrates
暈糊	dizzy; giddy
暈船	to become seasick
暈菜	(dialect) to get confused; to be dumbfounded; to get dizzy
暈血	to feel sick when seeing blood
暈血症	blood phobia
暈車	to be carsick
暈針	to faint during acupuncture or injection
暈頭	dizzy
暈頭轉向	confused and disoriented
暈高兒	to feel giddy on heights; vertigo
暉	sunshine; to shine upon
暋	(literary) rude and unreasonable
暌	in opposition to; separated from
暌違	(literary) to be separated (from a friend, one's homeland etc) for a period of time
暌隔	(literary) separated; parted
暍	hot
暐	the bright shining of the sun
暑	heat; hot weather; summer heat
暑促	summer promotion (sale)
暑假	summer vacation
暑天	hot (summer) day
暑期	summer vacation time
暑期學校	summer school
暑氣	(summer) heat
暑溫	summer-warm disease (TCM)
暑熱	hot (summer) weather
暑瘟	tropical disease; summertime disease
暔	name of a country
暕	bright (light)
暖	warm; to warm
暖冬	warm winter; mild winter
暖化	warming
暖和	warm; nice and warm
暖壺	vacuum flask; thermos flask
暖寶寶	hand warmer
暖巢管家	housekeeper who looks after old people with no children or whose children do not live with them
暖心	(coll.) heartwarming; touching; comforting and emotionally uplifting
暖意	warmth
暖房	heating; central heating; greenhouse
暖手寶	hand warmer
暖暖	Nuannuan District of Keelung City 基隆市[Ji1 long2 Shi4], Taiwan
暖暖包	(Tw) disposable hand warmer
暖暖區	Nuannuan District of Keelung City 基隆市[Ji1 long2 Shi4], Taiwan
暖棚	greenhouse; polytunnel
暖氣	central heating; heater; warm air
暖氣機	radiator; heater
暖氣片	radiator (for heating)
暖水瓶	thermos flask or bottle
暖洋洋	warm and cozy; comfortably warm
暖流	warm current; (fig.) warm feeling
暖烘烘	nice and warm; cozy; heartwarming
暖爐	space heater; radiator
暖瓶	thermos
暖男	a man who is family-oriented, considerate and protective
暖色	warm color (esp. red, orange, and yellow)
暖融融	comfortably warm; cozy
暖調	warm tone; warm color
暖轎	closed sedan chair
暖鋒	warm front (meteorology)
暖閣	warm room; warm partition of a room
暖風	warm breeze
暗	dark; to turn dark; secret; hidden
暗中	in the dark; in secret; on the sly
暗中監視	to monitor secretly; to spy on
暗井	blind shaft; winze
暗傷	internal injury; invisible damage
暗光鳥	black-crowned night heron (Tw)
暗公鳥	black-crowned night heron (Tw)
暗冕鷦鶯	(bird species of China) rufescent prinia (Prinia rufescens)
暗合	to agree implicitly; of one mind
暗含	to imply; to suggest; to connote; implicit
暗哨	hidden sentry post
暗哨兒	whistle given as a secret signal
暗喜	hidden smile; smirk; to rejoice covertly
暗喻	metaphor
暗器	concealed weapon
暗地	secretly; inwardly; on the sly
暗地裡	secretly; inwardly; on the sly
暗堡	bunker
暗娼	unlicensed (unregistered) prostitute
暗室	darkroom
暗害	to kill secretly; to stab in the back
暗影	shadow; umbra
暗想	think to oneself
暗戀	to be secretly in love with
暗戳戳	(coll.) low-key; subtle; unobtrusive
暗房	(photography) darkroom
暗扣	hidden snap fastener (concealed behind a flap on a garment)
暗指	to hint at; to imply; sth hidden
暗探	secret agent; detective
暗星雲	(astronomy) dark nebula; absorption nebula
暗昧	obscure; remaining unenlightened
暗暗	secretly; inwardly
暗樁	submerged piles installed to prevent the passage of boats
暗殺	to assassinate
暗沙	submerged sandbank; submerged coral islet
暗河	underground river
暗流	undercurrent
暗淡	dark; dim (light); dull (color); drab; (fig.) gloomy; bleak
暗渠	underground water channel; covered ditch; culvert
暗渡陳倉	lit. secretly crossing the Wei River 渭河[Wei4 He2] at Chencang (idiom, refers to a stratagem used by Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1] in 206 BC against Xiang Yu 項羽|项羽[Xiang4 Yu3] of Chu)
暗溝	sewer; underground drainage channel
暗滯	dull (complexion)
暗潮	undercurrent
暗灘	hidden shoal
暗灰鵑鵙	(bird species of China) black-winged cuckooshrike (Lalage melaschistos)
暗無天日	all black, no daylight (idiom); a world without justice
暗煅	sealed pot calcination (TCM)
暗爽	to be secretly delighted
暗物質	(physics) dark matter
暗疔	axillary furuncle; armpit boil
暗疾	unmentionable disease; a disease one is ashamed of
暗瘡	acne
暗盒	magazine; cassette
暗礁	submerged reef (rock)
暗示	to hint; to suggest; hint; suggestion
暗笑	laugh in (up) one's sleeve; snigger; snicker
暗算	to plot against
暗箭	attack by a hidden enemy; a stab in the back
暗箱	camera bellows; camera obscura
暗箱操作	covert activities (election rigging etc)
暗經	latent menstruation (TCM)
暗綠柳鶯	(bird species of China) greenish warbler (Phylloscopus trochiloides)
暗綠繡眼鳥	(bird species of China) Swinhoe's white-eye (Zosterops simplex)
暗綠背鸕鶿	(bird species of China) Japanese cormorant (Phalacrocorax capillatus)
暗網	(computing) Dark Web
暗線光譜	dark-line spectrum
暗罵	to curse under one's breath; to grumble inaudibly
暗背雨燕	(bird species of China) dark-rumped swift (Apus acuticauda)
暗胸朱雀	(bird species of China) dark-breasted rosefinch (Procarduelis nipalensis)
暗能量	(astronomy) dark energy
暗腹雪雞	(bird species of China) Himalayan snowcock (Tetraogallus himalayensis)
暗自	inwardly; to oneself; secretly
暗色鴉雀	(bird species of China) grey-hooded parrotbill (Suthora zappeyi)
暗花兒	veiled design incised in porcelain or woven in fabric
暗藏	to hide; to conceal
暗處	secret place
暗號	secret signal; password; countersign
暗虧	hidden loss (finance)
暗袋	camera bag (for changing film)
暗裡	privately; secretly; behind closed doors
暗記	to commit to memory; secret mark
暗記兒	secret mark
暗訪	to make secret inquiries; to investigate in secret
暗語	code word
暗轉	(theater) blackout (e.g. at the end of a scene)
暗送秋波	to cast flirtatious glances at sb (idiom)
暗道	secret passage; secret tunnel
暗適應	(visual physiology) dark adaptation
暗鎖	built-in lock; concealed lock (flush with the surface, with only the keyhole visible) (contrasted with 明鎖|明锁[ming2 suo3] "exposed lock")
暗間兒	inner room
暗香	subtle fragrance
暗香疏影	(poetic depiction of plum blossom)
暗鷺	black-crowned night heron (Tw)
暗黑	dark; dim
暗黑破壞神	Diablo (video game series)
暘	rising sun; sunshine
暝	dark
暠	bright; white
暡	used in 暡曚[weng3 meng2]
暡曚	(literary) (of daylight) dim
暢	free; unimpeded; smooth
暢享	to revel in; to fully enjoy (e.g. an immersive or high-quality experience) (often used in marketing)
暢快	carefree
暢想	to think imaginatively; to envision freely
暢所欲言	lit. fluently saying all one wants (idiom); to preach freely on one's favorite topic
暢旺	flourishing; brisk (sales, trading)
暢然	happily; in high spirits
暢談	to talk freely; to discuss without inhibition
暢貨中心	outlet store (Tw)
暢通	unobstructed; unimpeded; free-flowing; smooth
暢達	free-flowing; smooth
暢銷	to sell well; bestselling; chart-topping
暢銷書	best-seller; best-selling book; blockbuster
暢順	smooth; unimpeded
暢飲	to have a few drinks; to drink to one's heart's content
暨	(literary) and; as well as
暨今	up to now; to this day
暨南大學	Jinan University in Guangdong Province, with 4 campuses in Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Zhuhai
暨大	abbr. for Jinan University 暨南大學|暨南大学[Ji4 nan2 Da4 xue2]
暪	dark
暫	temporary; Taiwan pr. [zhan4]
暫且	for now; for the time being; temporarily
暫住證	temporary residence permit
暫停	to suspend; time-out (e.g. in sports); stoppage
暫停鍵	pause button
暫定	temporary arrangement; provisional; tentative
暫息	a lull (in the storm); brief break (in rain)
暫態	transient
暫擱	to put aside temporarily; to put on hold
暫時	temporary; provisional; for the time being
暫短	brief (in time)
暫緩	to postpone
暫缺	currently in short supply; in deficit (of commodity)
暫行	provisional
暮	evening; sunset
暮年	one's declining years; one's old age
暮景	an evening scene; fig. one's old age
暮歲	the last days of the year; old age
暮氣	evening mist; fig. declining spirits; lethargy
暮色	twilight
暮色蒼茫	the hazy dusk of twilight (idiom)
暮靄	evening mist
暮鼓晨鐘	lit. evening drum, morning bell (idiom); fig. Buddhist monastic practice
暱	familiar; intimate; to approach
暱稱	nickname; diminutive; term of endearment
暲	bright; to rise (of sun)
暴	sudden; violent; cruel
暴亂	riot; rebellion; revolt
暴光	exposure
暴利	sudden huge profits
暴利稅	windfall profit tax
暴力	violence; force; violent
暴力分揀	rough handling of parcels during mail sorting
暴力法	violent method; brute force
暴力犯罪	violent crime
暴動	insurrection; rebellion
暴卒	to die of sudden illness; to die suddenly
暴君	tyrant; despot
暴富	to get rich quick
暴徒	bandit; thug; ruffian
暴怒	to fly into a rage; to rage violently
暴恐	(attributive) terrorist
暴戾	ruthless
暴戾恣睢	(idiom) cruel; ruthless; tyrannical
暴打	to beat viciously
暴扣	slam dunk (basketball)
暴擊	critical hit (gaming)
暴政	tyranny; despotic rule
暴斂	to overtax; to extort
暴斃	to die suddenly
暴曬	(of the sun) to scorch; to expose to a scorching sun
暴死	to die suddenly
暴殄天物	to waste natural resources recklessly
暴民	a mob of people
暴洪	a sudden, violent flood; flash flood
暴漫	rage comic
暴漲	to increase sharply; to rise dramatically
暴烈	violent; fierce
暴熱	to trend; to get popular quickly; sudden heat wave (weather)
暴牙	bucktooth
暴病	sudden attack of a serious illness
暴瘦	to lose weight dramatically
暴發	to break out (of disease etc); to suddenly get rich (or prominent)
暴發戶	newly rich; parvenu; upstart
暴胖	to gain weight dramatically
暴虎馮河	lit. fight tigers with one's bare hands and wade across raging rivers (idiom)
暴虐	brutal; tyrannical
暴虐無道	(idiom) tyrannical; oppressive; lawless
暴行	savage act; outrage; atrocity
暴論	wild remark; outrageous statement (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 暴論 "bōron")
暴走	out of control; berserk; to go for a long walk
暴走族	people who go on walks for exercise; (Tw) rebel youth motorcycle group
暴走漫畫	rage comic
暴走鞋	Heelys (roller shoes with wheels protruding slightly from the heel)
暴跌	(economics) to slump; steep fall (in value etc)
暴跳如雷	(idiom) to stamp with fury; to fly into a rage
暴躁	irascible; irritable
暴雨	torrential rain; rainstorm
暴雪	snowstorm; blizzard
暴雪鸌	(bird species of China) northern fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis)
暴雷	thunderclap; (of a P2P lending platform) to collapse
暴露	to expose; to reveal; to lay bare
暴露無遺	to lay bare; to come to light
暴露狂	exhibitionist
暴露癖	exhibitionism
暴風	windstorm; (meteorology) storm (force 11 wind)
暴風圈	(meteorology) storm area (area exposed to winds of force 7 or higher during a typhoon)
暴風雨	rainstorm; storm; tempest
暴風雪	snowstorm; blizzard
暴風驟雨	violent wind and rainstorm; hurricane; tempest
暴食	to eat too much; to binge
暴食症	bulimia
暴飲暴食	to eat and drink unreasonably
暴龍	Tyrannosaurus spp.; esp. T. rex
暴龍屬	genus Tyrannosaurus
暴龍科	Tyrannosauridae, the dinosaur family containing Tyrannosaurus
暵	dry; hot
暶	(literary) bright; (literary) beautiful; good-looking
暸	bright; clear
暹	sunrise
暹粒	Siem Reap, Cambodia
暹羅	Siam (former name of Thailand)
暹羅語	Siamese (Thai) language
暻	bright
暾	sun above the horizon
暾欲穀	Tonyukuk (died c. 724 AD)
曀	obscure; sun hidden by clouds
曄	bright light; to sparkle
曆	calendar
曆年	calendar year
曆數	(literary) movements of celestial bodies; destiny; calendar system
曆書	almanac
曆法	calendar science; calendar system
曇	dark clouds
曇花	Dutchman's pipe cactus, aka Queen of the Night cactus (Epiphyllum oxypetalum)
曇花一現	lit. the night-blooming cactus shows once; flash in the pan (idiom)
曈	sun about to rise
曉	dawn; daybreak; to know
曉以大義	(idiom) to persuade by appealing to principle; to reason with sb on moral grounds
曉喻	to inform; to convince
曉得	to know
曉示	to tell; to notify
曌	name invented for herself by Tang empress Wu Zetian 武則天|武则天[Wu3 Ze2 tian1]
曏	direction; orientation; to face
曑	(constellation)
曖	(of daylight) dim; obscure; clandestine
曖昧	vague; ambiguous; equivocal
曖昧關係	shady relationship; affair; adulterous relationship
曘	color of the sun; dark
曙	(bound form) daybreak; dawn; Taiwan pr. [shu4]
曙光	the first light of dawn
曙紅朱雀	(bird species of China) pink-rumped rosefinch (Carpodacus waltoni)
曙色	the light of early dawn
曚	twilight before dawn
曚曨	(literary) (of daylight) dim; (literary) murky; indistinct
曛	twilight; sunset
曜	bright; glorious; one of the seven planets of premodern astronomy
曝	used in 曝光[bao4 guang1]; Taiwan pr. [pu4]
曝光	to expose (photography); (fig.) to expose (a scandal)
曝光表	light meter; exposure meter
曝曬	to expose to strong sunlight
曝露	to expose (to the air, light etc); to leave uncovered; exposure
曠	to neglect; to skip (class or work); to waste (time)
曠世	incomparable; none to compare with at that time
曠代	unrivalled; without peer in this generation
曠古	since the dawn of time; from the year dot
曠古未有	never before in the whole of history (idiom); unprecedented
曠古未聞	never before in the whole of history (idiom); unprecedented
曠地	open space; open field
曠夫	bachelor; unmarried man
曠工	to skip work; absence without leave
曠廢	to neglect (work); to waste (one's talents)
曠日持久	protracted (idiom); long and drawn-out
曠時攝影	time-lapse photography
曠渺	remote and vast
曠職	to fail to show up for work
曠課	to play truant; to cut classes
曠費	to waste; to squander
曠達	broad-minded; accepting; philosophical (about things)
曠野	wilderness
曠闊	vast
曦	(literary) sunlight (usu. in early morning)
曨	used in 曚曨|曚昽[meng2 long2]
曩	in former times
曬	(of the sun) to shine on; to bask in (the sunshine)
曬乾	to dry in the sun
曬傷	to get sunburnt; sunburn
曬圖	blueprint; to make a blueprint
曬太陽	to be in the sun (getting warm or sunbathing etc)
曬娃	(coll.) to indiscriminately share news, images etc of one's child on social media; sharenting
曬娃族	(coll.) sharent
曬客	person who shares their experiences and thoughts with others on the Internet
曬斑	sunburn spots (on skin)
曬油	(Malaysia) thick soy sauce (used to give food a glossy, caramel-like color)
曬照	(Internet slang) to post a photo of oneself online
曬衣繩	clothesline
曬駱駝	xylitol (Cantonese)
曬黑	to sunbathe; to tan; to get sunburnt
曰	to speak; to say
曱	used in 曱甴[yue1 zha2]
曱甴	(dialect) cockroach; also pr. [yue1you2]
曲	bent; crooked; wrong
曲別針	paper clip
曲周縣	Quzhou, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
曲奇	cookie (loanword via Cantonese 曲奇 kuk1 kei4)
曲子	poem for singing; tune; music
曲射	(military) curved-trajectory fire; plunging fire
曲射砲	curved-fire gun (mortar, howitzer etc)
曲尺	carpenter's square
曲度	curvature
曲意	against one's will; willy-nilly
曲意逢迎	to bow down to everything sb says or does
曲折	winding; (fig.) complicated
曲松縣	Qusum, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
曲柄	crank handle
曲柄鑽	hand drill with a crank handle
曲棍	bent stick; hockey stick
曲棍球	field hockey
曲水縣	Qüxü, a county in Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
曲江區	Qujiang, a district of Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
曲池穴	Quchi acupoint LI11, at the lateral end of the elbow crease
曲沃縣	Quwo, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
曲率	(math.) curvature
曲率向量	curvature vector
曲目	repertoire; program; song
曲直	lit. crooked and straight; fig. right and wrong, good and evil
曲突徙薪	lit. to bend the chimney and remove the firewood (to prevent fire) (idiom)
曲筆	falsification in writing; misrepresentation in written history
曲終奏雅	perfect finish (idiom)
曲線	curve; curved line; indirect
曲線圖	line graph; line diagram
曲線擬合	curve fitting
曲線救國	(of sb who ostensibly collaborated with the Japanese during the Sino-Japanese war of 1937-1945) to secretly work for the Nationalists or against the Communists
曲線論	the theory of curves
曲線鋸	jigsaw
曲肱而枕	lit. to use one's bent arm as a pillow (idiom)
曲藝	folk musical theater
曲裡拐彎	winding and turning (idiom)
曲解	to misrepresent; to misinterpret
曲調	tune; melody
曲軸	crankshaft
曲阜孔廟	temple to Confucius in his hometown Qufu
曲阜市	Qufu, hometown of Confucius 孔子[Kong3 zi3], now a county-level city in Jining 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
曲陽縣	Quyang, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
曲霉毒素	aspergillus
曲靖市	Qujing, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
曲面	curved surface; surface
曲面論	the theory of surfaces
曲頸瓶	retort; bottle with curved neck
曲風	music style; music genre
曲高和寡	difficult songs find few singers (idiom); highbrow
曲麻萊縣	Qumarlêb, a county in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 玉樹藏族自治州|玉树藏族自治州[Yu4 shu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
曳	to drag; to pull; Taiwan pr. [yi4]
曳光彈	tracer ammunition; tracer
曳尾鸌	(bird species of China) wedge-tailed shearwater (Puffinus pacificus)
曳引車	(Tw) tractor unit; prime mover
曳步舞	shuffle (dance)
更	to change or replace; to experience
更上一層樓	to take it up a notch; to bring it up a level
更代	substitution; replacing former general; change of leader
更僕難數	too many to count; very many; innumerable
更加	more (than sth else); even more
更動	to change; to replace; to alter
更勝	to be even better than; to be superior to
更勝一籌	superior by a notch; a cut above; even better
更卒	soldier (serving alternate watch)
更博	(Internet slang) to update one's blog
更名	to rename
更夫	night watchman (in former times)
更始	to make a new start; to regenerate
更年期	menopause; andropause
更張	lit. to restring one's bow; to reform and start over again
更換	to replace (a worn-out tire etc); to change (one's address etc)
更改	to alter
更新	to replace the old with new; to renew; to renovate
更新世	Pleistocene (geological epoch from 2m years ago, covering the most recent ice ages)
更新換代	reform and renewal; generational change
更是	even more (so)
更替	to take over (from one another); to alternate; to replace
更有甚者	furthermore (idiom)
更樓	watch tower; drum tower marking night watches
更次	one watch (i.e. two-hour period during night)
更正	to correct; to make a correction
更深	deep at night
更深人靜	deep at night and all is quiet (idiom)
更漏	water clock used to mark night watches
更為	even more
更生	resurrection; rebirth; reinvigorated
更番	alternately; by turns
更衣	to change clothes; to go to the toilet (euphemism)
更衣室	change room; dressing room; locker room; (euphemism) toilet
更迭	to alternate; to change
更遞	to change; to substitute
更闌	deep night
更鼓	drum marking night watches; night watchman's clapper
曷	why; how; when
書	abbr. for 書經|书经[Shu1 jing1]
書不盡言	I have much more to say than can be written in this letter (conventional letter ending) (idiom)
書中自有黃金屋，書中自有顏如玉	lit. in books are sumptuous houses and graceful ladies (proverb)
書亭	book kiosk
書信	letter; epistle
書信集	collected letters
書函	letter; correspondence; slipcase
書刊	books and periodicals; publications
書劄	letter; also written 書札|书札
書包	schoolbag; satchel; bookbag
書卷	volume; scroll
書卷氣	scholarly flavor; educated appearance
書卷獎	presidential award (received by university students in Taiwan for academic excellence)
書名	name of a book; reputation as calligrapher
書名號	Chinese guillemet 《》(punct. used for names of books etc)
書呆子	bookworm; pedant; bookish fool
書報	papers and books
書壇	the calligraphic community
書寫	to write
書寫不能症	agraphia
書寫符號	writing symbol
書寫語言	written language
書局	bookstore; publishing house
書展	book exhibition; book fair; calligraphy exhibition
書店	bookstore
書庫	a store room for books; fig. an erudite person
書房	study (room); studio
書擋	bookend
書會	calligraphy society; village school (old); literary society (old)
書本	book (chiefly used to refer to a plurality of books or books in general)
書札	letter
書板	(writing) tablet
書架	bookshelf
書案	writing desk; official record
書桌	desk
書檔	bookend
書櫃	bookcase
書櫥	bookcase
書法	calligraphy; handwriting; penmanship
書法家	calligrapher
書牘	letter; wooden writing strips (arch.)
書生	scholar; intellectual; egghead
書畫	painting and calligraphy
書畫家	calligrapher and painter
書畫氈	felt desk pad for calligraphy
書皮	book cover; book jacket
書目	booklist; bibliography; title catalogue
書眉	header; top margin on a page
書社	a reading group; press (i.e. publishing house)
書稿	manuscript of a book
書立	bookend
書篋	bookcase
書簡	(literary) letter
書籍	books; works
書籤	bookmark
書約	book contract
書經	the Book of History, one of the Five Classics of Confucianism 五經|五经[Wu3 jing1], a compendium of documents which make up the oldest extant texts of Chinese history, from legendary times down to the time of Confucius, also known as 尚書經|尚书经[Shang4 shu1 jing1], 尚書|尚书[Shang4 shu1], 書|书[Shu1]
書聖	great calligraphy master
書肺	book lung (arachnid anatomy)
書脊	spine of a book
書腰	(Tw) (publishing) belly band (paper sash around a book, outside the dust jacket)
書號	book number (esp. ISBN)
書蟲	bookworm
書蠹	bookworm (literal and figurative); book louse; pedant
書角	corner of a page
書記	secretary (chief official of a branch of a socialist or communist party)
書記官	clerk of a law court
書記處	secretariat
書評	book review; book notice
書證	written evidence
書跡	extant work of a calligrapher
書迷	book lover; avid reader; (in context) fan of a particular book or author
書院	academy of classical learning (Tang Dynasty - Qing Dynasty)
書面	in writing; written
書面許可	written permission; written authorization
書面語	written language
書頁	page of a book
書題	book title
書風	calligraphic style
書館	teashop with performance by 評書|评书 story tellers
書館兒	teashop with performance by 評書|评书 story tellers
書香	literary reputation
書香門第	family with a literary reputation (idiom); literary family
書體	style of Chinese script
書齋	study (room)
曹	class or grade; generation; plaintiff and defendant (old)
曹不興	Cao Buxing or Ts'ao Pu-hsing (active c. 210-250), famous semilegendary painter, one of the Four Great Painters of the Six Dynasties 六朝四大家
曹丕	Cao Pi (187-226), second son of Cao Cao 曹操, king then emperor of Cao Wei 曹魏 from 220, ruled as Emperor Wen 魏文帝, also a noted calligrapher
曹剛川	Cao Gangchuan (1935-), former artillery officer, senior PRC politician and army leader
曹參	Cao Can (-190 BC), second chancellor of Han Dynasty, contributed to its founding by fighting on Liu Bang's 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1] side during the Chu-Han Contention 楚漢戰爭|楚汉战争[Chu3 Han4 Zhan4 zheng1]
曹妃甸區	Caofeidian, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
曹操	Cao Cao (155-220), famous statesman and general at the end of Han, noted poet and calligrapher, later warlord, founder and first king of Cao Wei 曹魏, father of Emperor Cao Pi 曹丕
曹植	Cao Zhi (192-232), son of Cao Cao 曹操, noted poet and calligrapher
曹沖	Cao Chong (196-208), son of Cao Cao 曹操[Cao2 Cao1]
曹白魚	Chinese herring (Ilisha elongata); white herring; slender shad
曹禺	Cao Yu (1910-1997), PRC dramatist
曹縣	Cao County or Caoxian, a county in Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
曹錕	Cao Kun (1862-1938), one of the Northern Warlords
曹雪芹	Cao Xueqin (c. 1715-c. 1764), accepted author of A Dream of Red Mansions 紅樓夢|红楼梦[Hong2 lou2 Meng4]
曹靖華	Cao Jinghua (1897-1987), translator from Russian, professor of Peking University and essayist
曹餘章	Cao Yuzhang (1924-1996), modern writer and publisher, author of Tales from 5000 Years of Chinese History 上下五千年[Shang4 xia4 Wu3 Qian1 nian2]
曹魏	Cao Wei, the most powerful of the Three Kingdoms, established as a dynasty in 220 by Cao Pi 曹丕, son of Cao Cao, replaced by Jin dynasty in 265
曼	handsome; large; long
曼切斯特	Manchester; also written 曼徹斯特|曼彻斯特
曼哈頓	Manhattan island; Manhattan borough of New York City
曼哈頓區	Manhattan borough of New York City
曼城	Manchester, England; Manchester City football club
曼城隊	Manchester City football team
曼妙	(literary) graceful
曼妥思	Mentos, a brand of candy produced by European company Perfetti Van Melle
曼尼托巴	Manitoba, province of Canada
曼島	Isle of Man, British Isles (Tw)
曼德勒	Mandalay, province and second city of Myanmar (Burma)
曼德拉	Nelson Mandela (1918-2013), South African ANC politician, president of South Africa 1994-1999
曼徹斯特	Manchester
曼徹斯特編碼	Manchester encoding
曼波	(loanword) mambo (dance)
曼波魚	ocean sunfish (Mola mola)
曼海姆	Mannheim, German city at the confluence of Rhine and Neckar
曼珠沙華	red spider lily (Lycoris radiata); Sanskrit mañjusaka
曼聯	Manchester United Football Club
曼荷蓮學院	Mount Holyoke College (South Hadley, Massachusetts)
曼荼羅	(Buddhism) (loanword from Sanskrit) mandala
曼蘇爾	Al-Mansur; Abu Jafar al Mansur (712-775), second Abassid caliph
曼谷	Bangkok, capital of Thailand
曼達爾	Mandal (city in Agder, Norway)
曼陀林	(loanword) mandolin
曼陀羅	(botany) devil's trumpet (Datura stramonium) (loanword from Sanskrit "māndāra")
曼陀鈴	(loanword) mandolin
曾	great- (grandfather, grandchild etc)
曾參	Zeng Shen (505-435 BC), a.k.a. 曾子[Zeng1 zi3], student of Confucius, presumed editor or author of Confucian classic the Great Learning 大學|大学[Da4 xue2]
曾國藩	Zeng Guofan (1811-1872), Qing dynasty politician and military man
曾外祖母	great-grandmother (mother's grandmother)
曾外祖父	great-grandfather (mother's grandfather)
曾子	Zengzi (505-435 BC), student of Confucius, presumed editor or author of Confucian classic the Great Learning 大學|大学[Da4 xue2]
曾孝谷	Zeng Xiaogu (1873-1937), actor and pioneer of Chinese drama in New Culture style
曾孫	great-grandson
曾孫女	great-granddaughter
曾幾何時	just a while before; not so long ago; everyone can remember when..
曾慶紅	Zeng Qinghong (1939-), vice-president of PRC 2003-2008
曾樸	Zeng Pu (1872–1935), novelist and publisher
曾祖	father's father's father; paternal great-grandfather
曾祖母	father's father's mother; paternal great-grandmother
曾祖父	father's father's father; paternal great-grandfather
曾祖父母	great-grandparents
曾紀澤	Cang Jize or Tseng Chi-tse (1839-1890), pioneer diplomat of late Qing, serve as imperial commissioner (ambassador) to UK, France and Russia
曾經	once; already; former
曾經滄海	lit. having crossed the vast ocean (idiom)
曾經滄海難為水，除卻巫山不是雲	there are no rivers to one who has crossed the ocean, and no clouds to one who has passed Mount Wu (idiom)
曾繁仁	Zeng Fanren, president of Shandong University from February 1998 until July 2000
曾蔭權	Sir Donald Tsang, aka Tsang Yam-Kuen (1944–), the second Chief Executive of Hong Kong (2005–2012)
曾都區	Zengdu, a district of Suizhou City 隨州市|随州市[Sui2 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
曾金燕	Zeng Jinyan (1983-), Chinese blogger and human rights activist, wife of dissident activist Hu Jia 胡佳[Hu2 Jia1]
曾鞏	Zeng Gong (1019–1083), Song dynasty writer, one of the eight giants 唐宋八大家[Tang2 Song4 ba1 da4 jia1]
替	to substitute for; to take the place of; to replace
替代	to substitute for; to replace; to supersede
替代品	substitute; alternative
替代燃料	alternative fuel
替古人擔憂	to fret over the worries of long-departed people (idiom); to worry unnecessarily
替天行道	(idiom) to enforce justice on behalf of Heaven
替工	replacement worker; substitute worker
替換	to exchange; to replace; to substitute for; to switch
替死鬼	scapegoat; fall guy
替班	to act as substitute; to fill in for sb
替罪	to take the rap for sb
替罪羊	scapegoat
替罪羔羊	scapegoat; sacrificial lamb
替補	to replace (a damaged component with a new one, an injured player with a substitute player, full-time workers with casual workers etc)
替補隊員	substitute player; reserve player
替角	(theater) understudy
替身	stand-in; substitute; (cinema) body double; stunt double
替身演員	body double; stunt double
替餐	meal replacement
最	(before an adjective or verb) to the highest degree; (the) most ...; -est
最低潮	lit. low tide; fig. the lowest point (e.g. of a relationship)
最低谷	lowest point; nadir
最低限度	the bare minimum; the lowest acceptable limit or standard
最低音	lowest voice; lowest pitch; lowest note
最低點	lowest point; nadir; minimum level
最佳	optimum; optimal; peak
最佳化	(computing, math.) to optimize
最優	optimal; optimum
最優化	optimization (math.)
最優解	optimal solution
最先	(the) very first
最初	first; primary; initial
最喜愛	favorite
最多	at most; maximum; greatest (amount)
最大似然估計	maximum-likelihood estimation (statistics)
最大公因子	(math.) highest common factor (HCF); greatest common divisor (GCD)
最大公約數	(math.) highest common factor (HCF); greatest common divisor (GCD)
最大化	to maximize
最大速率	maximum speed; maximum velocity
最好	best; had better ...; it would be best to ...
最好是	(as a complete expression, or followed by 啦[la5]) (coll.) Yeah, right! As if!
最密堆積	close-packing of spheres (math.)
最小二乘	(math.) least squares
最小二乘法	(math.) least squares method
最小值	least value; minimum
最小公倍數	least common multiple
最小公分母	lowest common denominator
最小化	to minimize
最小平方法	method of least squares (math.) (Tw)
最少	at least; minimum; lowest (amount)
最年長	eldest
最後	final; last; ultimate; finally; in the end
最後一天	final day
最後晚餐	the Last Supper (in the biblical Passion story)
最後期限	deadline; final time limit (for project)
最後的晚餐	the Last Supper (in the Christian Passion story)
最後通牒	ultimatum
最惠國	most-favored nation (trade status)
最惠國待遇	most favored nation
最新	latest; newest
最是	(before an adjective, to indicate superlative degree) the most ...
最為	the most
最終	final; ultimate
最終幻想	Final Fantasy (video game)
最近	recently; soon; nearest
最近幾年	the last few years; last several years; recent years
最遠	furthest; most distant; at maximum distance
最高	tallest; highest; supreme (court etc)
最高人民檢察院	PRC Supreme People's Procuratorate (prosecutor's office)
最高人民法院	Supreme People's Court (PRC)
最高工資限額	wage ceiling
最高法院	supreme court
最高等	highest level; top class
最高限額	maximum amount; ceiling; upper limit
最高音	highest voice; highest pitch; highest note
朁	if, supposing, nevertheless
會	can; to have the skill; to know how to; to be likely to; to be sure to
會不會	(posing a question: whether sb, something) can or cannot?
會元	provincial imperial examination graduate who ranked 1st in metropolitan examination (in Ming and Qing dynasties)
會兒	(coll.) a short while; a moment
會厭	epiglottis
會厭炎	epiglottitis
會友	to make friends; to meet friends; member of the same organization
會合	to meet; to rendezvous; to merge
會合處	joint
會同	to handle sth jointly
會同縣	Huitong, a county in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
會否	can or cannot; is it possible?
會員	member
會員國	member nation
會哭的孩子有奶吃	lit. a child who cries gets to feed at the breast (idiom)
會哭的孩子有糖吃	lit. the child who cries gets the candy (idiom)
會商	to confer; to consult; to negotiate
會堂	meeting hall; assembly hall
會場	meeting place; place where people gather
會士	member of religious order; penitent; frater
會子	(coll.) a moment; a while
會安	Hoi An (in Vietnam)
會客	to receive a visitor
會客室	parlor
會客廳	reception room; parlor
會寧縣	Huining, a county in Baiyin City 白銀市|白银市[Bai2 yin2 Shi4], Gansu
會審	joint hearing; to review jointly (i.e. with other checkers)
會展	conventions and exhibitions (abbr. for 會議|会议[hui4 yi4] + 展覽|展览[zhan3 lan3])
會師	to collaborate; to join forces; to effect a junction
會幕	tabernacle (biblical word for a meeting hall or tent)
會心	knowing (of a smile, look etc)
會意	combined ideogram (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书[liu4 shu1] of forming Chinese characters)
會意字	combined ideogram (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters)
會戰	(military) to meet for a decisive battle; (military) battle
會所	office of an association; meeting place; clubhouse
會攻	to attack jointly
會昌縣	Huichang, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
會晤	to meet (formally); formal meeting
會期	the duration of a conference
會東縣	Huidong, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
會水	to be able to swim
會澤縣	Huize, a county in Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
會獎旅遊	MICE tourism (acronym for "meetings, incentives, conventions and exhibitions"), aka "meetings industry" or "events industry"
會理市	Huili, a county-level city in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
會盟	meetings conducted by rulers in feudal China for the purpose of formalizing alliances, finalizing treaties
會眾	audience; participants; congregation (of religious sect)
會社	a guild
會章	constitution; bylaws; charter (of an organization etc)
會籍	membership (of a club etc)
會考	unified examination
會要	dynastic records of imperial China
會見	to meet with (sb who is paying a visit)
會計	accountant; accountancy; accounting
會計制度	accounting system
會計學	accounting; accountancy
會計師	accountant
會計準則理事會	accounting standards council
會計科目	account
會診	consultation (medical); to meet for diagnosis
會試	metropolitan examination (imperial civil service examination)
會話	(language learning) conversation; dialog
會談	talks; discussions
會議	meeting; conference
會議室	meeting room; conference room
會議展覽	conferences and exhibitions
會議廳	conference hall
會費	membership dues
會車	(of two vehicles traveling in opposite directions) to pass by each other
會錯意	to misunderstand; to get the wrong idea
會長	president of a club, committee etc
會長團	presidency (Mormon Church)
會門	main entrance; secret society
會陰	perineum
會陰穴	(TCM) acupuncture point CV-1, located on the perineum
會集	to come together; to assemble
會面	to meet with; meeting
會館	provincial or county guild hall
會首	head of a society; sponsor of an organization
會黨	anti-Qing secret societies
朅	to leave; to abandon
朆	not yet (Wu dialect)
月	moon; month; monthly
月下老人	(Chinese folk religion) the god of matchmaking; (idiom) matchmaker
月中	the middle of the month
月事	menses; menstruation; a woman's periods
月亮	the moon
月亮女神號	SELENE, Japanese lunar orbiter spacecraft, launched in 2007
月亮杯	menstrual cup (Tw)
月令	typical weather in a given season
月份	month
月份會議	monthly meeting; monthly conference
月份牌	calendar (esp. illustrated)
月供	monthly loan repayment; mortgage payment
月信	(old) menstruation; period
月俸	monthly salary
月偏食	partial eclipse of the moon
月光	moonlight
月光族	people who spend all their income each month
月光石	moonstone
月全食	total lunar eclipse
月刊	monthly magazine
月初	start of month; early in the month
月利	monthly interest
月半	15th of the month
月台幕門	(railway) platform screen doors; platform-edge doors
月坑	lunar crater
月城	semicircular defensive enclosure around city gates
月報	monthly (used in names of publications); monthly bulletin
月壤	lunar soil
月夕	Mid-autumn Festival on lunar 15th August
月夜	moonlit night
月女神	Moon Goddess
月婆子	(coll.) lying-in woman
月嫂	woman hired to take care of a newborn child and its mother in the month after childbirth
月子	traditional one-month confinement period following childbirth; puerperium
月子中心	postpartum care center (a facility providing services such as professional care and nutritionally balanced meals for mothers during the traditional month of rest after giving birth)
月子病	puerperal fever
月孛	(ancient Chinese astrology) Yuebei, a heavenly body postulated to exist at the apogee of the Moon's orbit, hindering the Moon's progress
月季	Chinese rose (Rosa chinensis)
月宮	Palace in the Moon (in folk tales)
月尾	end of the month
月岩	moon rock
月工	worker employed by the month
月底	end of the month
月度	monthly
月徑	moonlit path; diameter of the moon; diameter of the moon's orbit
月息	monthly interest
月支	the Yuezhi, an ancient people of central Asia during the Han dynasty (also written 月氏[Yue4 zhi1])
月收入	monthly income
月暈	ring around the moon; lunar halo
月曆	monthly calendar
月曜日	Monday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
月月	every month
月朔	the first day of each month
月末	end of month; late in the month
月杪	last few days of the month
月桂	laurel (Laurus nobilis); bay tree; bay leaf
月桂冠	laurel crown; victory garland (in Greek and Western culture)
月桂樹	laurel tree (Laurus nobilis); bay tree
月桂樹葉	laurel leaf; bay leaf
月桂葉	bay leaf; laurel leaf
月氏	ancient people of central Asia during the Han dynasty
月海	lunar mare
月湖區	Yuehu, a district of Yingtan City 鷹潭市|鹰潭市[Ying1 tan2 Shi4], Jiangxi
月牙	crescent moon
月牙形	crescent
月球	the moon
月球車	moon buggy
月琴	yueqin, a lute with oval or octagonal sound box
月盲症	moon blindness; equine recurrent uveitis
月相	phase of the moon
月票	monthly ticket
月租	monthly rent; monthly fee; to rent by the month
月經	menstruation; a woman's period
月經墊	sanitary towel; menopad
月經棉栓	tampon
月缺	new moon
月老	(Chinese folk religion) the god of matchmaking; (fig.) matchmaker
月臺	railway platform
月臺票	platform ticket
月色	moonlight
月華	moonlight
月薪	monthly income (in kind)
月藍	light blue
月虧	waning moon; to wane
月費	monthly fee; monthly charge
月輪	full moon
月錢	monthly payment
月闌	the halo of the moon
月頭兒	start of the month (colloquial)
月食	lunar eclipse; eclipse of the moon
月餅	mooncake (esp. for the Mid-Autumn Festival)
月鱧	snakehead mullet; Channa asiatica
月黑	moonless (night)
月黑天	the dark; night
月齡	(baby's) age in months
有	to have; there is
有一些	somewhat; rather; some
有一句沒一句	to speak one minute and be quiet the next
有一套	to have a skill; to be savvy; to know how to do sth
有一手	to have a skill; to have a lot on the ball; to have an affair
有一拼	comparable; on a par (with)
有一搭沒一搭	unimportant; perfunctory; indifferent
有一次	once; once upon a time
有一腿	(coll.) to have an affair
有一說一	to speak plainly; to speak one's mind; to say directly
有一說一，有二說二	to call sth as it is (idiom)
有一點	a little; somewhat
有一點兒	a bit; a little
有不少名堂	there is a lot to it; not a straightforward matter
有主見	opinionated; having one's own strong views
有了	I've got a solution!
有了胎	pregnant; to carry a child
有事	to be occupied with sth; to have sth on one's mind
有些	some; somewhat; rather; a bit
有些人	some people
有人	someone; people; anyone
有人情	humane
有人想你	Bless you! (after a sneeze)
有仇不報非君子	a real man, if he takes a hit, will seek to even the score (idiom)
有仇不報非君子，有冤不伸枉為人	one who doesn't avenge an injustice is not a gentleman, one who doesn't redress a wrong is not a man (idiom)
有份	to have a share of (responsibility etc); to be concerned
有何貴幹	What (noble errand) brings you here?; May I help you?
有作用	effective; to have impact
有借有還，再借不難	return what you borrowed on time, you may borrow again next time (idiom)
有備無患	Preparedness averts peril.; to be prepared, just in case (idiom)
有備而來	to come prepared
有價值	valuable
有價無市	(idiom) having an asking price but few or no buyers
有價證券	(finance) negotiable securities
有償	paying; paid (not free)
有兩下子	to have real skill; to know one's stuff
有其師，必有其徒	As the teacher, so the pupil. (idiom)
有其父必有其子	like father, like son (idiom)
有別	different; distinct; unequal
有利	advantageous; favorable
有利可圖	profitable
有利於	to be advantageous to; to be beneficial for
有利有弊	to have both advantages and disadvantages
有則改之，無則加勉	correct any mistakes you made, but maintain your good record if you did not make them (idiom)
有創造力	ingenious; creative
有力	powerful; forceful; vigorous
有加	extremely (placed after verb or adjective)
有助	helpful; beneficial; to help
有助於	to contribute to; to promote
有勁	vigorous; energetic; interesting; amusing
有勇無謀	bold but not very astute (idiom)
有勞	(polite) thank you for your trouble (used when asking a favor or after having received one)
有印象	to have a recollection (of sb or sth); to remember
有去無回	gone forever (idiom)
有口無心	to speak harshly but without any bad intent (idiom)
有口皆碑	every voice gives praise (idiom); with an extensive public reputation
有可能	possible; probable; possibly
有史以來	since the beginning of history
有司	(literary) officials
有名	famous; well-known
有名亡實	lit. has a name but no reality (idiom); exists only in name; nominal
有名無實	lit. has a name but no reality (idiom); exists only in name; nominal
有味	tasty
有商有量	to talk things through (idiom); to have an exchange of views
有喜	to be expecting; to be with child
有嘴沒舌	struck dumb; speechless
有嘴無心	to talk without any intention of acting on it; empty prattle
有型	stylish
有增無已	constantly increasing without limit (idiom); rapid progress in all directions
有增無減	to increase without letup; to get worse and worse (idiom)
有夏	China
有夠	very; extremely
有夫之婦	married woman
有失	to cause a loss of (decorum, dignity etc) (used in fixed expressions)
有失厚道	to be ungenerous
有失身份	to be beneath one's dignity
有失遠迎	(polite) excuse me for not going out to meet you
有奶便是娘	lit. whoever provides milk is your mother (idiom)
有如	to be like sth; similar to; alike
有始有終	where there's a start, there's a finish (idiom); to finish once one starts sth
有始無終	to start but not finish (idiom); to fail to carry things through
有婦之夫	married man
有子存焉	I still have sons, don't I?
有孔蟲	foraminifera
有學問	(of a person) learned; erudite; scholarly
有害	destructive; harmful; damaging
有害無利	harmful and without benefit (idiom); more harm than good
有害無益	harmful and without benefit (idiom); more harm than good
有局	vulnerable (in bridge)
有屁快放	spit it out!; out with it!
有希望	hopeful; promising; prospective
有幫助	helpful
有年	for years
有年頭	for donkey's years; for ages
有幸	fortunately
有序	regular; orderly; successive
有序化	ordering (of a list, encyclopedia etc)
有彈性	flexible
有形	material; tangible; visible; shapely
有影響	influential
有征無戰	to win without a fight (idiom)
有待	not yet (done); pending
有後	to have a descendant; to have a son to continue one's lineage
有得一比	can be compared; to be very similar
有得有失	you win some, you lose some (idiom); gains and losses; trade-off
有德行	virtuous
有心	to have a mind to; to intend to; deliberately
有心人	resolute person; person with aspirations; people who feel
有心無力	(idiom) to want to do sth but be unable to; willing but unable
有心眼	to have good sense; to be quick-witted; to be shrewd
有志	to be ambitious
有志之士	(idiom) person committed to a noble cause or ideal
有志氣	ambitious
有志竟成	persevere and you will succeed (idiom); where there's a will, there's a way
有志者事竟成	a really determined person will find a solution (idiom); where there's a will, there's a way
有性生殖	sexual reproduction
有性繁殖	sexual reproduction
有怪莫怪	please don't take offense; don't take it personally
有恃無恐	secure in the knowledge that one has backing
有恆	to persevere; perseverance
有息	interest-bearing (bank account)
有悖於	to go against
有情	to be in love; sentient beings (Buddhism)
有情人	lovers
有情人終成眷屬	love will find a way (idiom)
有情有義	affectionate and true; loyal (idiom)
有意	to intend; intentionally; interested in
有意思	interesting; meaningful; enjoyable
有意栽花花不發，無心插柳柳成陰	lit. you plant a garden and the flowers do not bloom, you poke a stick in the mud and it grows into a tree
有意無意	intentionally or otherwise
有意義	to make sense; to have meaning; to have significance
有意識	conscious
有感	to feel prompted by one's perception of sth
有感而發	(idiom) to express thoughts or feelings prompted by one's experience or observations
有成	(literary) to achieve success
有戲	(coll.) promising; likely to turn out well
有所	somewhat; to some extent
有所不同	to differ to some extent (idiom)
有所作為	(idiom) to achieve sth worthwhile; to make a positive contribution
有所得必有所失	there is no gain without a loss (idiom)
有手有腳	lit. have hands have feet; to be able bodied (idiom)
有才幹	capable
有排面	(neologism) (coll.) ostentatious; showy; impressive
有損	to be harmful (to)
有損壓縮	(computing) lossy compression
有搞頭	(coll.) worthwhile; likely to be fruitful
有攻擊性	offensive
有效	effective; in effect; valid
有效性	validity
有效數字	significant figures (in a measured value)
有效日期	expiration date; expiry date
有效期	period of validity; sell-by date
有效負載	payload
有救	able to be saved; there's still a chance; remediable
有教無類	education for everyone, irrespective of background
有教無類法	No Child Left Behind Act, USA 2001
有數	to have kept count; to know how many; (fig.) to know exactly how things stand; to know the score
有料	impressive
有新意	modern; up-to-date
有方	to do things right; to use the correct method
有時	sometimes; now and then
有時候	sometimes
有望	hopeful; promising
有朝	one day; sometime in the future
有朝一日	one day; sometime in the future
有期徒刑	limited term of imprisonment (i.e. anything less than life imprisonment)
有木有	(slang) come on, you can't deny it!; don't you think so?!
有本事	to have what it takes
有本錢	to be in a position to (take on a challenge etc)
有板有眼	orderly; methodical; rhythmical
有枝有葉	to become bogged down in the details (idiom)
有染	to have an affair with sb
有核國家	nuclear weapon states
有條不紊	regular and thorough (idiom); methodically arranged
有條有理	(idiom) clear and orderly; neat and tidy
有條紋	striped
有樣學樣	to imitate what sb else does; to follow sb's example
有機	organic
有機分子	organic molecule
有機化合物	organic compound
有機化學	organic chemistry
有機可乘	to have an opportunity that one can exploit (idiom)
有機土	histosol (soil taxonomy)
有機氮	organic nitrogen
有機物	organic substance; organic matter
有機玻璃	plexiglass
有機磷	organophosphorus compound (often used in pesticides)
有機磷毒劑	organophosphorus agent
有機磷酸酯類	organophosphate
有機肥	organic fertilizer
有機體	organism
有權	to have the right to; to be entitled to; to have authority
有權勢者	person in power; the one with authority; the guy in charge
有權威	authoritative
有次	once; on one occasion
有次序	ordered
有毅力	persevering; unwavering
有毒	poisonous
有氣派	lordly
有氣無力	weakly and without strength (idiom); dispirited
有氣質	to have class; classy
有氣音	aspirated consonant (in phonetics)
有氧健身操	aerobics
有氧操	aerobics
有氧運動	aerobics
有水	supplied with water (of a house)
有求必應	to grant whatever is asked for; to accede to every plea
有決心	determined
有沉有浮	to have one's ups and downs
有沒有	(before a noun) Do (you, they etc) have ...?; Is there a ...?
有活力	energetic; vital
有源區	(computer chip manufacture) active area
有滋有味	flavorsome; (fig.) delightful; full of interest
有潛力	promising; showing potential
有為	promising; to show promise
有為有守	able to act while maintaining one's integrity (idiom)
有無	to have or have not; surplus and shortfall; tangible and intangible
有煙煤	smokey coal
有理	reasonable; justified; right
有理式	rational expression (math.)
有理數	rational number (i.e. fraction of two integers, math.)
有理數域	field of rational numbers (math.), usually denoted by Q
有理數集	set of rational numbers (math.)
有生之年	(idiom) during one's lifetime; while one is on this earth; in one's remaining years
有生以來	(idiom) since birth; for one's whole life
有產者	property owner; the wealthy
有用	useful
有界	bounded
有病	to be ill; (coll.) to be not right in the head
有百利而無一害	to have many advantages and no disadvantages
有百利而無一弊	to have many advantages and no disadvantages
有百害而無一利	having no advantage whatsoever
有的	(there are) some (who are...); some (exist)
有的放矢	lit. to have a target in mind when shooting one's arrows (idiom)
有的是	have plenty of; there's no lack of
有的時候	sometimes; at times
有的沒的	trivial (matters); triviality; nonsense
有益	useful; beneficial; profitable
有益處	beneficial
有目共睹	anyone with eyes can see it (idiom); obvious to all
有目共見	anyone with eyes can see it (idiom); obvious to all
有目共賞	as everyone can appreciate (idiom); clear to all; unarguable
有目無睹	has eyes but can't see (idiom); unable or unwilling to see the importance of sth
有眉目	to begin to take shape; to be about to materialize
有眼不識泰山	lit. to have eyes but fail to recognize Mt Tai (idiom)
有眼光	to have good taste
有眼力見兒	(dialect) alert; attentive; observant
有眼無珠	(idiom) blind as a bat (figuratively)
有碼	pixelated or censored (of video)
有礙	to hinder; to impede; to be detrimental
有神論	theism (the belief in the existence of God)
有神論者	theist (believer in one or more Deities)
有福	to be blessed
有福同享，有禍同當	To enjoy blessings and endure misfortune together (idiom); for better or for worse
有福同享，有難同當	To enjoy blessings and endure misfortune together (idiom); for better or for worse
有禮貌	courteous; polite
有稜有角	(of a shape) sharp and clearcut; (of a person) definite in his opinion
有種	to have guts; to have courage; to be brave
有空	to have time (to do sth)
有空兒	erhua form of 有空[you3 kong4]
有窮	exhaustible; limited; finite
有節	segmented
有節制	temperate; moderate; restrained
有精神病	insane
有約在先	to have a prior engagement
有統計學意義	statistically significant
有絲分裂	mitosis
有線	wired; cable (television)
有線新聞網	Cable Network News (CNN)
有線電視	cable television
有緣	related; brought together by fate
有緣無分	destined to meet but not fated to be together (idiom)
有編制	having a permanent post; part of the official staff
有罪	guilty
有罪不罰	impunity
有聯繫	to be connected; to be related
有聲書	audiobook
有聲有色	having sound and color (idiom); vivid; dazzling
有聲讀物	audiobook; recording of a person reading the text of a book
有肩膀	responsible; reliable
有能力	able
有腔調	classy; stylish; upmarket
有膽量	courageous
有臉	lit. having face; to have prestige; to command respect
有興趣	interested; interesting
有良心	conscientious
有色	colored; non-white; non-ferrous (metals)
有色人種	colored races
有色無膽	to be perverse and suggestive towards the opposite sex, but shrinking back when provoked to act on it
有色眼鏡	(idiom) biased perspective; prejudice
有色金屬	non-ferrous metals (all metals excluding iron, chromium, manganese and their alloys)
有苦說不出	having unspeakable bitter suffering
有著	to have; to possess
有葷有素	to include both meat and vegetables
有虧職守	(to be guilty of) dereliction of duty
有袋類	(zoology) marsupial
有解	(of a problem, equation etc) to have a solution; to be solvable
有話快說	spit it out!
有話要說	to speak one's mind
有說有笑	talking and laughing; to jest; cheerful and lively
有請	to request the pleasure of seeing sb; to ask sb in
有識之士	a person with knowledge and experience (idiom)
有譜	to have a plan; to know what one is doing
有責任	liable; responsible
有資格	to be entitled; to qualify; to be qualified
有賣相	appealing; attractive (esp. to consumers)
有賴	(of an outcome) to rely on; to require
有趣	interesting; fascinating; amusing
有蹄動物	ungulates (animals with hooves)
有軌	tracked (tramcar)
有軌電車	streetcar; tramcar; tram
有辦法	can find methods; resourceful; creative
有過之而無不及	not to be inferior in any aspects (idiom); to surpass; to outdo
有道	to have attained the Way; (of a government or a ruler) enlightened
有道是	as they say, ...; as the saying goes, ...
有道理	to make sense; reasonable
有違	to run counter to
有邊兒	(Beijing dialect) to show promise; to look hopeful; to have good prospects
有鉤絛蟲	tapeworm (Taenia solium)
有錢	well-off; wealthy
有錢人	rich person; the rich
有錢有勢	rich and powerful (idiom)
有錢有閑	to have money and time; to be part of the leisure class; the idle rich
有錢能使鬼推磨	lit. with money, you can get a devil to turn a millstone (idiom)
有鑒於此	in view of this; to this end
有關	to have sth to do with; to relate to; related to
有關各方	all parties involved
有關聯	related to; concerning; to be correlated
有限	limited; finite
有限元	finite element (method)
有限元法	finite element method
有限公司	limited company; corporation
有限單元	finite element (method)
有限群	finite group (math.)
有限集	finite set
有陰影	shadowy
有雄心	ambitious
有電	electric (apparatus); electrified
有頃	shortly thereafter; for a moment
有預謀	premeditated
有頜	jawed (fish)
有頭有尾	where there's a start, there's a finish (idiom); to finish once one starts sth
有頭有臉	(idiom) (of a person) to be highly respected; to enjoy prestige
有頭無尾	(idiom) to fail to finish off what one started
有風	windy
有餘	to have an abundance
有驚無險	to be more scared than hurt (idiom)
有鬼	(fig.) to smell fishy
有魅力	attractive; charming
有點	a little
有點兒	slightly; a little; somewhat
朊	protein
朊毒體	prion (molecular biology)
朊病毒	prion (pathogen)
朋	friend
朋克	punk (music style) (loanword)
朋友	friend
朋友圈	Moments (social networking function of smartphone app WeChat 微信[Wei1 xin4])
朋友妻不可欺	you should not covet your friend's wife (idiom)
朋比為奸	to conspire; to gang up
朋黨	clique
服	classifier for medicine: dose; Taiwan pr. [fu2]
服他靈	voltaren, a trade name for diclofenac sodium, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug used to reduce swelling and as painkiller
服侍	to attend to; to care for (patients etc); to look after
服儀	attire and grooming
服兵役	to serve in the army
服刑	to serve a prison sentence
服務	to serve; service
服務台	service desk; information desk; reception desk
服務員	waiter; waitress; attendant
服務器	server (computer)
服務提供商	(Internet) service provider
服務提供者	service provider
服務業	service industry
服務生	server (at a restaurant)
服務臺	service desk; information desk; reception desk
服務規章	service regulation
服務費	service charge; cover charge
服務質量	Quality of Service; QOS
服喪	in mourning
服帖	docile; obedient; appropriate
服役	to serve in the army; in active service
服從	to obey (an order); to comply; to defer
服服	clothes (baby talk)
服服帖帖	submissive; docile; obedient
服毒	to take poison
服氣	to be convinced; to accept
服法	to submit to the law; to obey the law
服滿	to have completed the mourning period (traditional)
服用	to take (medicine)
服眾	to convince the masses
服硬	to yield to force
服罪	to admit to a crime; to plead guilty
服老	to admit to one's advancing years; to acquiesce to old age
服膺	to bear in mind
服藥	to take medicine
服裝	dress; clothing; costume
服裝秀	fashion show
服貿	Cross-Strait Service Trade Agreement
服軟	to admit defeat; to give in; to acknowledge a mistake
服輸	to concede; to admit defeat
服辯	written confession; letter of repentance
服食	to take (medication, supplements etc)
服飾	apparel; clothing and personal adornment
朏	(literary) (of the crescent moon) to begin to shine
朐	surname Qu
朓	(literary) the appearance of the moon in the west at the end of a lunar month
朔	beginning; first day of lunar month; north
朔城區	Shuocheng, a district of Shuozhou City 朔州市[Shuo4 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
朔州市	Shuozhou, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
朔日	first day of the lunar month
朔月	new moon; first day of the lunar month
朔望	the new moon; the first day of the lunar month
朔望潮	spring tide (biggest tide, at new moon or full moon)
朔風	north wind
朔風凜冽	The north wind is icy cold.
朕	(used by an emperor or king) I; me; we (royal "we"); (literary) omen
朕兆	omen; sign (that sth is about to happen); warning sign
朗	clear; bright
朗吟	to recite in a loud, clear voice
朗姆	(loanword) rum (alcoholic beverage)
朗姆酒	(loanword) rum
朗文	Longman (name)
朗朗上口	to flow right off the tongue (of lyrics or poetry)
朗照	to shine brightly; (fig.) to perceive clearly
朗縣	Nang County or Nangxian, a county in Nyingchi City 林芝市[Lin2 zhi1 Shi4], Tibet
朗誦	to read aloud with expression; to recite; to declaim
朗讀	to read aloud
朘	(literary) to reduce; (literary) to exploit
望	full moon; to hope; to expect
望京	Wangjing neighborhood of Beijing
望城區	Wangcheng, a district of Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
望塵莫及	lit. to see only the other rider's dust and have no hope of catching up (idiom)
望夫石	Amah Rock in Sha Tin 沙田[Sha1 tian2], Hong Kong
望奎縣	Wangkui, a county in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
望女成鳳	lit. to hope one's daughter becomes a phoenix (idiom)
望子成龍	lit. to hope one's son becomes a dragon (idiom); fig. to long for one' s child to succeed in life
望文生義	lit. view a text and interpret (idiom); to interpret word by word without understanding the meaning
望族	distinguished or prominent family; influential clan (old)
望日	the full moon; the fifteenth day of each lunar month
望月	full moon
望梅止渴	lit. to quench one's thirst by thinking of plums (idiom)
望樓	watchtower; lookout tower
望江縣	Wangjiang, a county in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
望洋	(literary) to gaze into the air
望洋興嘆	(lit.) to gaze at the ocean and lament one's inadequacy (idiom)
望眼欲穿	to anxiously await
望而卻步	(lit.) to shrink back at the sight of (sth daunting) (idiom)
望而生畏	(idiom) to feel intimidated
望而興嘆	to sigh (in dismay, admiration etc)
望花區	Wanghua, a district of Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
望見	to espy; to spot
望診	(TCM) observation, one of the four methods of diagnosis 四診|四诊[si4 zhen3]
望謨縣	Wangmo, a county in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
望遠瞄準鏡	telescopic sight; scope (on a rifle)
望遠鏡	telescope (CL:部[bu4]); binoculars (CL:副[fu4])
望遠鏡座	Telescopium (constellation)
望都縣	Wangdu, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
望風	to be on the lookout; to keep watch
望風而逃	to flee at the mere sight of (idiom)
朝	imperial or royal court; government; dynasty
朝三暮四	lit. say three in the morning but four in the evening (idiom); to change sth that is already settled upon
朝不保夕	at dawn, not sure of lasting to evening (idiom); precarious state
朝不慮夕	at dawn, not sure of lasting to evening (idiom); precarious state
朝中	North Korea-China
朝中社	abbr. for 朝鮮中央通訊社|朝鲜中央通讯社[Chao2 xian3 Zhong1 yang1 Tong1 xun4 she4]
朝乾夕惕	cautious and diligent all day long (idiom)
朝代	dynasty; reign (of a king)
朝令夕改	to make frequent or unpredictable changes in policy (idiom)
朝前	facing forwards
朝向	toward; to face; to open onto
朝夕	morning and night; all the time
朝夕相處	to spend all one's time together (idiom)
朝天	to have an audience with the Emperor; to be presented at court
朝天區	Chaotian, a district of Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
朝天椒	chili pepper (Capsicum frutescens var)
朝山進香	to make a temple pilgrimage and burn incense
朝廷	court; imperial household; dynasty
朝後	backwards; facing back
朝思暮想	to yearn for sth day and night (idiom)
朝戰	abbr. for 朝鮮戰爭|朝鲜战争[Chao2 xian3 Zhan4 zheng1], Korean War (1950-1953)
朝房	reception room for officials (in former times)
朝拜	to worship; to make customary deferences to; a pilgrimage
朝拜聖山	a pilgrimage to a holy mountain
朝政	(historical) affairs of state at the imperial court
朝族	Korean ethnic group of Jilin province and northeast China
朝日	Asahi (Japanese place name, company name etc)
朝日新聞	Asahi Shimbun (Japanese newspaper)
朝曦	early morning sunlight
朝服	court dress in former times
朝朝	every day (archaic)
朝朝暮暮	from dawn to dusk; all the time
朝核問題	Korean nuclear problem
朝歌	Zhaoge, capital of the Shang dynasty 商朝
朝氣	vitality; dynamism
朝氣蓬勃	full of youthful energy (idiom); vigorous; energetic; a bright spark
朝永振一郎	TOMONAGA Shin'ichirō (1906-1979), Japanese physicist, 1965 Nobel prize laureate with Richard Feynman and Julian Schwinger
朝珠	court beads (derived from Buddhist prayer beads)
朝生暮死	lit. born in the morning and dying at dusk (idiom); fig. ephemeral
朝秦暮楚	serve Qin in the morning Chu in the evening (idiom); quick to switch sides
朝綱	laws and discipline of imperial court
朝聖	to make a pilgrimage
朝聖者	pilgrim
朝聞夕改	lit. heard in the morning and changed by the evening
朝臣	court councilor
朝花夕拾	"Dawn Blossoms Plucked at Dusk", a collection of autobiographical essays by Lu Xun 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4]
朝著	towards
朝見	to have an audience (with the Emperor)
朝覲	to give audience (of emperor)
朝貢	(of a vassal state, neighboring country etc) to present tribute (to the imperial court)
朝過夕改	to correct in the evening a fault of the morning (idiom)
朝野	all levels of society; the imperial court and the ordinary people
朝門	entrance portal (to a palace); propylaeum
朝陽	to be exposed to the sun; in a position facing the sun
朝陽區	Chaoyang, an inner district of Beijing
朝陽市	Chaoyang, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
朝陽產業	sunrise industry
朝陽縣	Chaoyang, a county in Chaoyang City 朝陽市|朝阳市[Chao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
朝陽門	Chaoyangmen neighborhood of Beijing
朝雨	morning rain
朝露	morning dew; fig. precarious brevity of human life; ephemeral
朝露溘至	the morning dew will swiftly dissipate (idiom); fig. ephemeral and precarious nature of human existence
朝韓	North and South Korea
朝饔夕飧	(lit.) breakfast in the morning and supper in the evening (idiom)
朝鮮	North Korea; Korea as geographic term; Taiwan pr. [Chao2xian1]
朝鮮中央通訊社	North Korean Central News Agency (KCNA)
朝鮮人	a North Korean; (in broader or historical usage) a Korean
朝鮮八道	the eight provinces of Yi dynasty Korea
朝鮮勞動黨	Workers' Party of Korea (WPK), the ruling party of North Korea
朝鮮半島	Korean Peninsula
朝鮮太宗	King Taejong of Joseon Korea (1367–1422), reigned 1400–1418
朝鮮字母	hangul, Korean phonetic alphabet; Korean letters
朝鮮戰爭	Korean War (1950-1953)
朝鮮文	Korean written language
朝鮮族	Korean ethnic group; Koreans (major ethnic group of the Korean Peninsula)
朝鮮日報	Chosun Ilbo, a South Korean newspaper
朝鮮核談	talks on North Korea's nuclear program
朝鮮民主主義人民共和國	People's Democratic Republic of Korea (North Korea)
朝鮮海峽	Korea Strait; Tsushima Strait (between Japan and Korea)
朝鮮箏	gayageum (Korean 12-stringed zither)
朝鮮總督府	Japanese colonial administration of Korea 1910-1945
朝鮮語	Korean language
朞	period; cycle
期	a period of time; phase; stage
期中	interim; midterm
期中考	mid-term exam
期冀	(literary) to hope for; to wish
期刊	periodical
期待	to look forward to; to await; expectation
期房	forward delivery apartment
期指	futures index (abbr. for 期貨指數|期货指数[qi1 huo4 zhi3 shu4])
期望	to have expectations; to earnestly hope; expectation
期望值	expectations; (math) expected value
期期艾艾	stammering (idiom)
期末	the end of a term or semester (in school)
期末考	final exam
期權	(finance) option
期滿	to expire; to run out; to come to an end
期盼	to expect; to await
期票	promissory note; IOU
期終	end of a fixed term
期考	end of term examination
期許	to hope; to expect; expectation(s)
期貨	abbr. for 期貨合約|期货合约[qi1 huo4 he2 yue1], futures contract (finance)
期貨合約	futures contract (finance)
期間	period of time; time; time period
期限	time limit; deadline; allotted time
朠	(archaic) moonlight
朢	15th day of month (lunar calendar)
朣	light from the rising moon
朦	used in 朦朧|朦胧[meng2 long2]
朦朧	(literary) (of moonlight) dim; (literary) murky; indistinct
朦朧詩	Misty Poetry, a post-Cultural Revolution poetry movement
朦骨	(archaic) Mongol
朧	used in 朦朧|朦胧[meng2 long2]
木	(bound form) tree; (bound form) wood; unresponsive; numb; wooden
木下	Kinoshita (Japanese surname)
木乃伊	(loanword) mummy (preserved corpse)
木乃伊化	to mummify; mummification
木人石心	lit. body made of wood, heart made of stone (idiom); fig. heartless
木偶	puppet
木偶劇	puppet show
木偶戲	puppet show
木偶秀	puppet show
木刻	woodcut
木劍	wooden sword
木匠	carpenter
木卡姆	muqam, any of a set of 12 melody types used in the music of the Uyghurs
木吉他	acoustic guitar
木吒	Muzha, a figure in Chinese mythology
木器	wooden articles
木塊	block
木壘哈薩克自治縣	Mori Kazakh Autonomous County, in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
木夯	wooden tamp
木子美	Mu Zimei, Chinese celebrity
木屐	wooden clogs
木屑	wood shavings; sawdust
木工	woodwork; carpentry; woodworker
木已成舟	lit. the timber has been turned into a boat already (idiom)
木料	lumber; timber
木星	Jupiter (planet)
木曜日	Thursday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
木本植物	woody plant
木材	wood
木村	Kimura (Japanese surname)
木板	slab; board; plank
木柴	firewood
木柵	Muzha (old spelling: Mucha), suburb to the southeast of Taipei
木柵線	Taipei Metro Muzha Line, former name of the Wenshan Line 文山線|文山线[Wen2 shan1 xian4]
木格措	Lake Mibgai Co or Miga Tso, in Dartsendo or Kangding 康定[Kang1 ding4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
木框	wooden frame
木桶	cask
木桿	wooden pole; wood (golf club)
木棉	cotton tree (Bombax ceiba)
木棉科	Bombacaceae (botany)
木棍	wooden stick
木槿	hibiscus (Hibiscus syriacus)
木樁	wooden pile; stake
木炭	charcoal
木然	stupefied
木片	flat piece of wood; wood chip
木版	(printing) woodblock
木版畫	woodcut; wood engraving
木犀	osmanthus
木球	cricket (ball game); also called 板球[ban3 qiu2]
木琴	xylophone
木瓜	papaya (Carica papaya)
木瓦	shingle
木目金	mokuma-gane (loanword)
木笛	recorder (musical instrument) (Tw)
木筏	wooden raft; log raft
木管樂器	woodwind instrument
木箱鼓	cajón (musical instrument)
木節	gnarl; knag
木糖	xylose (type of sugar)
木糖醇	xylitol
木糠	sawdust
木耳	wood ear; jelly ear (edible fungus)
木耳菜	Malabar spinach (Basella alba)
木聚糖	xylan
木船	wooden boat
木芙蓉	cotton rose hibiscus (Hibiscus mutabilis)
木莓	raspberry
木菠蘿	jackfruit; breadfruit; Artocarpus heterophyllus
木華黎	Muqali or Mukhali (1170-1223), military commander under Genghis Khan 成吉思汗[Cheng2 ji2 si1 han2]
木薯	cassava, a tropical tuber plant
木薯澱粉	tapioca
木蘭	lily magnolia (Magnolia liliflora)
木蘭屬	Magnolia, genus of trees and shrubs
木蘭科	Magnoliaceae, family of trees and shrubs
木蘭綱	Magnoliopsidae or Dicotyledoneae (class of plants distinguished by two embryonic leaves)
木蘭縣	Mulan, a county in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
木蘭花	magnolia
木蝨	woodlouse
木蠹蛾	wood moth; carpenter moth
木衛	moon of Jupiter
木衛一	Io (moon of Jupiter), aka Jupiter I
木衛三	Ganymede (moon of Jupiter), aka Jupiter III
木衛二	Europa (moon of Jupiter), aka Jupiter II
木衛四	Callisto (moon of Jupiter), aka Jupiter IV
木製	wooden
木訥	wooden and slow of speech; slow-speeched; inarticulate
木訥寡言	honest and unaffected but not talkative (idiom)
木訥老人	ungraduated ruler; straight edge
木質	wooden
木質素	lignin
木質部	xylem
木酮糖	xylulose (type of sugar)
木醇	wood alcohol; wood spirit; methyl alcohol
木里藏族自治縣	Muli Tibetan Autonomous County, in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
木釘	peg
木鋸	a woodsaw
木鞋	clogs (footwear); sabot
木須肉	moo shu pork – stir-fried sliced pork with scrambled eggs, wood ear mushrooms and vegetables
木頭	wood; log (CL:塊|块[kuai4],根[gen1]); (fig.) blockhead; dolt
木香	costus root (medicinal herb); aucklandia; Saussurea costus
木馬	wooden horse; rocking horse; vaulting horse (gymnastics)
木馬病毒	Trojan horse (type of computer virus)
木馬計	wooden horse stratagem (cf Trojan horse)
木骨都束	Chinese name for African kingdom in Somalia, cf Mogadishu 摩加迪沙
木魚	mokugyo; wooden fish (percussion instrument)
木鱉果	gac fruit (Momordica cochinchinensis)
木齒耙	a rake (with wooden teeth)
未	not yet; did not; have not
未了	unfinished; outstanding (business); unfulfilled
未亡人	widow (humble self-reference in former times)
未來	future; tomorrow; approaching
未來主義	Futurism (artistic and social movement of the 20th century)
未來可期	the future looks promising; to have a bright future ahead
未來學	future studies
未來式	future tense
未來派	Futurism (artistic and social movement of the 20th century)
未便	not in a position to
未免	unavoidably; can't help; really
未冠	minor (old usage, person under 20)
未刪節版	unabridged edition; uncut edition
未卜	(literary) not yet divined; (of outcomes) uncertain; unknowable
未卜先知	(idiom) to foresee the future (without divination); to know beforehand through uncanny insight
未及	to not have had time; to have not yet; not to touch upon
未受影響	unaffected; not inconvenienced
未受精	unfertilized (of ova, not soil)
未可	cannot
未可厚非	not to be censured too strictly (idiom); not altogether inexcusable
未可同日而語	lit. mustn't speak of two things on the same day (idiom); not to be mentioned in the same breath
未名	unnamed; unidentified
未命名	untitled; unnamed; no name
未嘗	not ever; not necessarily
未嘗不可	(idiom) acceptable; fine; okay
未報	unavenged; still demanding retribution
未央	(literary) not ended; not yet over; close to the end
未央區	Weiyang, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
未始	not necessarily; may not turn out to be; maybe not
未婚	unmarried
未婚夫	fiancé
未婚妻	fiancée
未定	undecided; indeterminate; still in doubt
未幾	soon; before long
未必	not necessarily; maybe not
未必見得	not necessarily; that's not sure
未成	incomplete; unfinished
未成冠	minor (old usage, person under 20)
未成年	underage
未成年人	minor (i.e. person under 18)
未成年者	minor (not an adult)
未敢苟同	can't agree with
未料	to not anticipate; to not expect; unanticipated
未時	1-3 pm (in the system of two-hour subdivisions used in former times)
未曾	hasn't (or haven't); hasn't ever
未有	is not; has never been; never occurring
未果	to fail to eventuate; (verb suffix) to be unsuccessful in ...ing
未決	as yet undecided; unsolved; still outstanding
未然	in advance; before it happens (cf preventative measures); forestalling
未熟	unripe
未知	unknown
未知數	unknown number; (fig.) an unknown; an uncertainty
未竟	unfinished; incomplete
未竟之志	unfulfilled ambition
未經	not having undergone; without (having gone though a certain process)
未經證實	unconfirmed
未置可否	to refuse to comment; same as 不置可否
未羊	Year 8, year of the Ram (e.g. 2003)
未老先衰	to age prematurely
未能	cannot; to fail to; unable to
未能免俗	unable to break the custom (idiom); bound by conventions
未艾	(literary) not having come to its term
未解	unsolved (problem)
未解之謎	unsolved mystery
未詳	unknown; unclear
未遂	to fail to accomplish
未達一間	differing only slightly; not much between them
未雨綢繆	lit. before it rains, bind around with silk (idiom, from Book of Songs 詩經|诗经); fig. to plan ahead
末	tip; end; final stage
末世	last phase (of an age)
末了	(coll.) final part; last bit; (coll.) in the end; finally
末代	final generation
末代皇帝	The Last Emperor, 1987 biopic of Pu Yi 溥儀|溥仪[Pu3 yi2] by Bernardo Bertolucci
末任	(of the holder of an official post which no longer exists) the last (incumbent)
末伏	the third of the three annual periods of hot weather (三伏[san1 fu2]), which typically runs over the middle ten days of August
末位淘汰	sacking the worst-performing employee
末兒	powder; puree
末子	powder; dust
末尾	end; tip; extremity
末屑	bits; scraps
末席	end seat; place for less senior person
末年	the final years (of a regime)
末底改	Mordechai (name)
末座	end seat; final place (for less senior person)
末後	finally
末日	Judgment Day (in Christian eschatology)
末日論	eschatology
末期	end (of a period); last part; final phase
末梢	tip; end; last few days
末梢神經	peripheral nerve
末段	final segment; last stage
末流	late degenerate stage
末煤	slack coal (final poor quality coal)
末班車	last bus or train; last chance
末端	tip; extremity
末節	inessentials; minor detail
末篇	final installment; last phase; end
末茶	tea powder (matcha)
末葉	final years; end (of a decade, era etc)
末藝	small skill; my humble capabilities
末藥	myrrh (Commiphora myrrha); also written 沒藥|没药[mo4 yao4]
末路	dead end; impasse; end of the road; final days
末車	the last bus (or train)
末速	speed at the end of the trajectory; speed in the final stage
末造	final phase
末頁	last page
末願	final vows (in a religious order or congregation of the Catholic Church)
本	(bound form) root; stem; (bound form) origin; source
本·拉登	Osama bin Laden (1957-2011), leader of Al Qaeda
本事	source material; original story
本人	I; me; myself
本位	(economics) standard; benchmark (as in 金本位[jin1 ben3 wei4] "gold standard")
本位主義	selfish departmentalism; departmental selfishness
本位制	monetary standard
本位號	(music notation) natural sign, ♮
本位貨幣	local currency; our own currency; abbr. to 本幣|本币
本位音	(music) natural note
本來	original; originally; at first
本來面目	(idiom) true colors; true features; original appearance
本俸	basic salary
本傑明	Benjamin (person name)
本傑明·富蘭克林	Benjamin Franklin (1706-1790), American writer, scientist, inventor, politician and diplomat
本內特	(surname) Bennett
本分	(to play) one's part; one's role; one's duty
本初子午線	the first meridian; the prime meridian
本利	principal and interest; capital and profit
本名	original name; real name; (of foreigners) first name; given name
本命年	year of one's birth sign, according to the cycle of 12 animals of the earthly branches 地支[di4 zhi1]
本因坊	Honinbo, major school of Go in Japan (1612-1940)
本因坊秀策	Honinbo Shusaku (1829–1862), Japanese professional Go player, regarded as one of the greatest in the history of the game
本固枝榮	when the root is firm, the branches flourish
本國	one's own country
本國人	natives of one's own country
本土	one's native country; native; local
本土化	to localize; localization
本土派	local faction; pro-localization faction (in Taiwanese politics)
本地	local; this locality
本地人	native person (of a country)
本地化	localization; adaptation (to foreign environment)
本地管理界面	LMI; local management interface (telecommunications)
本埠	this city; this town
本報	this newspaper
本壘	(baseball) home base; home plate
本壘打	home run (baseball)
本士	(loanword) pence; penny
本子	book; notebook
本字	original form of a Chinese character
本家	a member of the same clan
本尊	(Buddhism) yidam (one's chosen meditational deity)
本小利微	(of a small business) to have very little capital and very modest profits
本就	by nature; fundamentally; inherently
本尼迪	Benedictus
本屆	current; this year
本島	main island
本州	Honshū, the main island of Japan
本市	this city; our city
本幣	local currency; our own currency; abbr. for 本位貨幣|本位货币
本幫菜	Shanghainese food
本年度	this year; the current year
本底	background
本底計數	background count
本底調查	background investigation
本底輻射	background radiation
本影	umbra
本徵值	(math.) eigenvalue
本徵向量	(math.) eigenvector
本性	natural instincts; nature; inherent quality
本性難移	It is hard to change one's essential nature (idiom). You can't change who you are.
本息	principal and interest (on a loan)
本意	original idea; real intention; etymon
本應	should have; ought to have
本我	id; the self
本拉登	(Osama) bin Laden (1957-2011), leader of Al Qaeda
本文	this text; article; the main body of a book
本族語	native language; mother tongue
本日	today
本星期	this week
本月	this month; the current month
本朝	the current dynasty
本期	the current period; this term (usually in finance)
本末	the whole course of an event from beginning to end; ins and outs
本末倒置	lit. to invert root and branch (idiom); fig. confusing cause and effect
本本	notebook computer (diminutive); laptop
本本主義	book worship; bookishness
本本分分	decorous; respectable
本業	business in which a company has traditionally engaged (e.g. before diversifying)
本源	origin; source
本溪市	Benxi, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
本溪滿族自治縣	Benxi Manchu Autonomous County, in Benxi City 本溪市[Ben3 xi1 Shi4], Liaoning
本生燈	Bunsen burner
本田	Honda (Japanese name)
本益比	P⁄E ratio (price-to-earnings ratio)
本相	original form
本省人	people of this province
本真	true nature; original state
本票	cashier's check; promissory note
本科	undergraduate course; undergraduate (attributive)
本科生	undergraduate student
本科系	(university education) major
本篤十六世	Pope Benedict XVI, original name Joseph Alois Ratzinger (1927–2022), pope 2005–2013
本篤會	the Benedictines
本紀	biographic sketch of an emperor
本經	classic book; sutra
本罪	actual sin (Christian notion, as opposed to original sin 原罪)
本義	original meaning; literal sense
本職	one's job
本能	instinct
本臺	this radio station
本色	inherent qualities; natural qualities; distinctive character
本色出演	(of an actor) to play a role that matches one's own character or personality
本茨	Benz (name); Karl Benz (1844-1929), motor car pioneer
本草	a book on Chinese (herbal) medicine; Chinese materia medica
本草綱目	Compendium of Medical Herbs 1596, compiled by Li Shizhen 李時珍|李时珍[Li3 Shi2 zhen1]
本著	based on...; in conformance with..; taking as one's main principle
本處	here; this place
本行	one's line; one's own profession
本貫	ancestral home; domicile of origin
本質	essence; nature; innate character
本質上	essentially; inherent
本身	itself; in itself; per se
本那比市	Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada
本部	headquarters; head office
本鄉	home village; one's native place
本金	capital; principal
本錢	capital; (fig.) asset; advantage; the means (to do sth)
本領	skill; ability; capability
本題	the subject under discussion; the point at issue
本體	main part; torso; the thing in itself
本體論	ontology
札	thin piece of wood used a writing tablet (in ancient China)
札幌	Sapporo, Japan
札格瑞布	(Tw) Zagreb, capital of Croatia
札格雷布	(Tw) Zagreb, capital of Croatia
札記	reading notes
札達縣	Zanda, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
朮赤	Jöchi (c. 1182–1227) Mongol army commander, eldest of Genghis Khan's four sons
朱	surname Zhu
朱䴉	(bird species of China) crested ibis (Nipponia nippon)
朱儁	Zhu Jun (-195), politician and general at the end of later Han
朱允炆	Zhu Yuanwen, personal name of second Ming Emperor Jianwen 建文[Jian4 Wen2]
朱元璋	Zhu Yuanzhang, personal name of first Ming dynasty emperor Hongwu 洪武[Hong2 wu3]
朱利亞尼	Giuliani (name)
朱利婭	Julia (name)
朱利安	Julian or Julien (name)
朱厚照	Zhu Houzhao, personal name of tenth Ming emperor 正德[Zheng4 de2] (1491-1521), reigned 1505-1521
朱古力	chocolate (loanword)
朱子	Master Zhu, another name for Zhu Xi 朱熹[Zhu1 Xi1]
朱孝天	Ken Zhu (1979-), Taiwanese singer and actor
朱庇特	Jupiter (Roman god)
朱廣滬	Zhu Guanghu (1949-), PRC soccer coach
朱德	Zhu De (1886-1976), communist leader and founder of the People's Liberation Army
朱棣	Zhu Di, personal name of third Ming Emperor Yongle 永樂|永乐[Yong3 le4]
朱溫	Zhu Wen (852-912), military governor 節度使|节度使[jie2 du4 shi3] at the end of Tang, founder of Later Liang of the Five Dynasties (907-923), also known as Emperor Taizu of Later Liang 後梁太祖|后梁太祖[Hou4 Liang2 Tai4 zu3]
朱漆	(traditional) red paint; red lacquer
朱熹	Zhu Xi or Chu Hsi (1130-1200), also known as Master Zhu 朱子[Zhu1 zi3], Song dynasty Confucian writer and propagandist, founder of neo-Confucianism
朱由校	personal name of fifteenth Ming emperor Tianqi 明天啟|明天启[Ming2 Tian1 qi3] (1605-1627), reigned 1620-1627
朱瞻基	Zhu Zhanji, personal name of fifth Ming emperor Xuande 宣德[Xuan1 de2]
朱砂	cinnabar; mercuric sulfide HgS; also written 硃砂|朱砂[zhu1 sha1]
朱祁鈺	Zhu Qiyu, personal name of seventh Ming emperor Jingtai 景泰[Jing3 tai4] (1428-1457), reigned 1449-1457
朱祁鎮	Zhu Qizhen, personal name of sixth and eighth Ming emperor Zhengtong 正統|正统[Zheng4 tong3], afterwards Tianshun Emperor 天順|天顺[Tian1 shun4] (1427-1464), reigned 1435-1449 and 1457-1464
朱立倫	Eric Chu (1961-), Taiwanese KMT politician
朱筆	brush dipped in red ink (used in former times for writing official documents, grading papers etc)
朱粉	red lead oxide Pb3O4; rouge and white lead; cosmetics
朱紅	vermilion
朱紅燈	Zhu Hongdeng, one of the leaders of the Boxer Rebellion
朱紱	(archaic) red silk ribbon tied to a seal or a jade pendant
朱背啄花鳥	(bird species of China) scarlet-backed flowerpecker (Dicaeum cruentatum)
朱自清	Zhu Ziqing (1898-1948), poet and essayist
朱莉婭	Julia (name)
朱諾	Juneau, capital of Alaska; Juno, Roman goddess of marriage
朱迪亞	Judea
朱鎔基	Zhu Rongji (1928-), PRC politician, premier 1998-2003
朱雀	(ancient Chinese astronomy) Zhuque, the Vermilion Bird (the southern quadrant of the sky)
朱雲折檻	(idiom) Zhu Yun breaks the railing (Zhu Yun was a Han Dynasty official who accused the emperor's tutor of corruption, and when sentenced to death, clung to the palace hall railing so fiercely while demanding justice that he broke it); (fig.) to speak the truth with unwavering courage; to admonish fearlessly
朱高熾	Zhu Gaochi, personal name of fourth Ming emperor Hongxi 洪熙[Hong2 Xi1]
朱鵐	(bird species of China) Przevalski's finch (Urocynchramus pylzowi)
朱鷺	ibis; Japanese crested ibis (Nipponia nippon)
朱鸝	(bird species of China) maroon oriole (Oriolus traillii)
朱麗亞	Julia (name)
朱麗葉	Juliet or Juliette (name)
朳	(literary) toothless rake used to level soil or gather grain
朴	surname Piao; Korean surname (Park, Pak or Bak); also pr. [Pu2]
朴刀	sword with a curved blade and a long hilt, wielded with both hands
朴子	Puzi or Putzu City in Chiayi County 嘉義縣|嘉义县[Jia1 yi4 Xian4], west Taiwan
朴子市	Puzi or Putzu City in Chiayi County 嘉義縣|嘉义县[Jia1 yi4 Xian4], west Taiwan
朴智星	Park Ji-sung (1981-), South Korean former footballer, played for Manchester United (2005-2012)
朴槿惠	Park Geun-hye (1952-), Korean politician, daughter of former dictator Park Chung-Hee 朴正熙[Piao2 Zheng4 xi1], president of Korea 2013-2017
朴正熙	Park Chung-Hee (1917-1979), South Korean military man and dictator, president 1963-1979, influential in developing Korean industry, murdered by his bodyguard
朴硝	(impure) mirabilite, Na2SO4x10H2O (used in TCM)
朵	flower; earlobe; fig. item on both sides
朵頤	(literary) to munch
朽	rotten
朽壞	rotten
朽木	rotten wood
朽木不可雕	lit. rotten wood cannot be carved (idiom)
朽爛	rotten
朽蠹	to decay and be eaten by worms etc; to overhoard grain so that it rots
朾	to bump
朿	stab
杅	bowl; tub
杆	(bound form) pole; shaft
杆子	pole
杇	to plaster; whitewash
杈	branches of a tree; fork of a tree
杉	China fir; Cunninghamia lanceolata; also pr. [sha1]
杉山	Sugiyama (Japanese surname)
杉本	Sugimoto (Japanese surname)
杌	low stool
杌凳	Chinese-style low stool
杌隉	(literary) unsettled; unstable; uneasy
李	surname Li
李世民	Li Shimin, personal name of second Tang emperor Taizong 唐太宗[Tang2 Tai4 zong1] (599-649), reigned 626-649
李亞鵬	Li Yapeng (1971-), PRC actor
李亨	Li Heng, personal name of eighth Tang emperor Suzong 肅宗|肃宗[Su4 zong1] (711-762), reigned 756-762
李代數	Lie algebra (math.)
李代桃僵	lit. the plum tree withers in place of the peach tree
李伯元	Li Boyuan or Li Baojia 李寶嘉|李宝嘉 (1867-1906), late Qing journalist, novelist and social observer, author of Observations on the current state of officialdom 官場現形記|官场现形记
李俊	Li Jun, fictional character from 水滸傳|水浒传[Shui3 hu3 Zhuan4]
李修賢	Danny Lee Sau-Yin (1953-), Hong Kong actor and director
李儇	Li Xuan, personal name of nineteenth Tang emperor Xizong 僖宗[Xi1 zhong1] (862-888), reigned 873-888
李元昊	Li Yuanhao (1003-1048), founding king of Xixia 西夏[Xi1 Xia4] around modern Ningxia 寧夏|宁夏[Ning2 xia4]
李先念	Li Xiannian (1909-1992), PRC general and politician
李光耀	Lee Kuan Yew (1923-2015), founding father of modern Singapore, prime minister 1959-1990
李克強	Li Keqiang (1955–2023), PRC politician, premier 2013–2023
李公樸	Li Gongpu (-1946), communist killed by Guomindang in Kunming in 1946
李冰	Li Bing (c. 3rd century BC) hydraulic engineer who designed the Dujiangyan 都江堰[Du1 jiang1 yan4] irrigation system in Sichuan
李冰冰	Li Bingbing (1973-), PRC film actress and pop star
李冶	Li Jilan 李季蘭|李季兰[Li3 Ji4 Lan2] or Li Ye (713-784), Tang dynasty female poet
李劼人	Li Jieren (1891-1962), novelist
李叔同	Liu Shutong (1880-1942), painter, Buddhist monk and distinguished figure in New Culture Movement 新文化運動|新文化运动[Xin1 Wen2 hua4 Yun4 dong4] after the Xinhai Revolution 辛亥革命[Xin1 hai4 Ge2 ming4] of 1911
李哲	Li Zhe, personal name of fourth Tang Emperor Zhongzong 唐中宗[Tang2 Zhong1 zong1] (656-710), reigned 705-710
李商隱	Li Shangyin (c. 813-858), Tang poet
李嘉欣	Michele Monique Reis (1970-) actress, model and former Miss Hong Kong & Miss Chinese International
李嘉誠	Sir Li Ka-shing (1928-), Hong Kong businessman
李四	Li Si, name for an unspecified person, second of a series of three: 張三|张三[Zhang1 San1], 李四, 王五[Wang2 Wu3] Tom, Dick and Harry
李四光	Li Siguang (1889-1971), Mongol-born, Japanese-trained geologist, prominent in early PRC oil exploration
李國豪	Brandon Lee (1965-1993), American actor, son of Bruce Lee
李大釗	Li Dazhao (1889-1927), early Chinese Marxist and founding member of the communist party
李天王	the pagoda bearing god
李天祿	Li Tianlu (1910-1998), Taiwanese master puppeteer
李娃傳	Tale of Courtesan Li Wa, novel by Tang writer Bai Xingjian 白行簡|白行简[Bai2 Xing2 jian3] along the lines of La Traviata, favorite opera plot
李娜	Li Na (1982-), Chinese tennis player, first Asian player to win a Grand Slam singles title (2011 French Open women's singles)
李子	plum
李季蘭	Li Jilan or Li Ye 李冶[Li3 Ye3] (713-784), Tang dynasty female poet
李宇春	Li Yuchun aka Chris Lee (1984-), Chinese pop singer
李安	Ang Li (1954-), Taiwanese-American film director (films include Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon 臥虎藏龍|卧虎藏龙 and Brokeback Mountain 斷背山|断背山)
李宗仁	Li Zongren (1891-1969), a leader of Guangxi warlord faction
李宗盛	Jonathan Lee (1958–), Taiwanese record producer and songwriter
李富春	Li Fuchun (1900–1975), Chinese Communist revolutionary and politician, served as Vice Premier of the PRC
李寧	Li Ning (1963-), PRC gymnast, winner of three gold medals at Los Angeles 1984 Olympic games
李寶嘉	Li Boyuan 李伯元 or Li Baojia (1867-1906), late Qing journalist, novelist and social observer, author of Observations on the current state of officialdom 官場現形記|官场现形记
李小龍	Bruce Lee (1940-1973), Hong Kong actor and martial arts expert
李嵐清	Li Lanqing (1932-), PRC politician
李希霍芬	Ferdinand von Richthofen (1833-1905), German geologist and explorer who published a major foundational study of the geology of China in 1887 and first introduced the term Silk Road 絲綢之路|丝绸之路
李廣	Li Guang (-119 BC), Han dynasty general, nicknamed Flying General 飛將軍|飞将军 and much feared by the Xiongnu 匈奴
李延壽	Li Yanshou (fl. 650), compiler of History of the Southern 南史 and Northern Dynasties 北史
李建成	Li Jiancheng (589-626), eldest son of first Tang emperor Li Yuan 唐高祖李淵|唐高祖李渊, murdered by his brother 李世民 in the Xuanwu Gate coup 玄武門之變|玄武门之变
李彥宏	Robin Li (1968–), founder and CEO of Baidu 百度[Bai3 du4], a PRC Internet company
李後主	Li Houzhu (c. 937-978), the final Southern Tang ruler (ruled 961-975) and a renowned poet
李德	Otto Braun (1900-1974), Comintern adviser to the Chinese communist party 1932-1939
李德林	Li Delin (530-590), historian of Northern Wei and Sui dynasty
李忱	Li Chen, personal name of seventeenth Tang emperor Xuanzong 宣宗[Xuan1 zong1] (810-859), reigned 846-859
李恆	Li Heng, personal name of thirteenth Tang emperor Muzong 穆宗[Mu4 Zong1] (795-824), reigned 821-825
李悝	Li Kui (455-395 BC), legalist philosopher and statesman of Wei state 魏國|魏国[Wei4 guo2]
李懷遠	Li Huaiyuan (-756), senior Tang dynasty official
李成桂	Yi Seong-gye (1335-1408), founder and first king of Korean Yi dynasty (1392-1910)
李成江	Li Chengjiang (1979-), Chinese figure skater
李承晚	Syngman Rhee (1875-1965), US-trained Korean politician and dictator, president of Republic of Korea 1948-1960
李振藩	Li Zhenfan (1940-1973), real name of the actor Bruce Lee 李小龍|李小龙[Li3 Xiao3 long2]
李政道	Tsung-Dao Lee (1926–2024), Chinese American physicist, Columbia University, 1957 Nobel laureate
李敏勇	Li Minyong (1947-), Taiwanese poet
李斯	Li Si (c. 280-208 BC), Legalist philosopher, calligrapher and prime minister of Qin kingdom and Qin dynasty from 246 to 208 BC
李斯特	Ferenc (Franz) Liszt (1811-1886), Hungarian composer
李斯特氏桿菌	listeria bacillus
李斯特氏菌	listeria bacillus
李斯特菌	Listeria monocytogene
李旦	Li Dan, personal name of sixth Tang emperor Ruizong 唐睿宗[Tang2 Rui4 zong1] (662-716), reigned 684-690 and 710-712
李昂	Li Ang, personal name of fifteenth Tang emperor Wenzong 文宗[Wen2 zong1] (809-840), reigned 827-840
李昉	Li Fang (925-996), scholar between Tang and Song dynasties, author of fictional history
李昌鎬	Lee Chang-ho (1975–), South Korean professional Go player
李明博	Lee Myung-bak (1941-), South Korean businessman, one-time chairman of Hyundai, president of South Korea 2008-2013
李時珍	Li Shizhen (1518-1593), Ming botanist and pharmacologist, author of Compendium of Medical Herbs 本草綱目|本草纲目[Ben3 cao3 Gang1 mu4]
李曄	Li Ye, personal name of twentieth Tang emperor Zhaozong 昭宗[Zhao1 zong1] (867-904), reigned 888-904
李會昌	Lee Hoi-chang (1935-), South Korean politician
李朝威	Li Chaowei (c. 766-c. 820), Tang writer of fantasy fiction 傳奇|传奇, author of 柳毅傳|柳毅传
李木	blackthorn
李林甫	Li Linfu (-752), Tang politician, chancellor under Tang emperor Xuanzong 玄宗
李格非	Li Gefei (active c. 1090), Northern Song writer and father of southern Song female poet Li Qingzhao 李清照
李樹	plum tree
李氏	the Korean Yi or Lee Dynasty (1392-1910)
李氏朝鮮	Joseon, last Korean dynasty (1392-1910)
李汝珍	Li Ruzhen (c. 1763-c. 1830), Qing novelist and phonologist, author of fantasy novel Jinghua Yuan 鏡花緣|镜花缘 or Flowers in the Mirror
李治	Li Zhi, personal name of third Tang emperor Gaozong 唐高宗[Tang2 Gao1 zong1], (628-683), reigned 649-683
李洪志	Li Hongzhi (1951–), founder of Falun Gong 法輪功|法轮功[Fa3 lun2 gong1]
李淵	Li Yuan, personal name of first Tang emperor Gaozu 唐高祖[Tang2 Gao1 zu3] (566-635), reigned 618-626
李清照	Li Qingzhao (1084-c. 1151), southern Song female poet
李湛	Li Zhan, personal name of fourteenth Tang emperor Jingzong 敬宗[Jing4 Zong1] (809-827), reigned 825-827
李源潮	Li Yuanchao (1950-), vice president of PRC from 2013-2018
李滄區	Licang, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
李漁	Li Yu (1611-c. 1680), late Ming and early Qing writer and dramatist
李漼	Li Cui, personal name of eighteenth Tang emperor Yizong 懿宗[Yi4 zong1] (833-873), reigned 859-873
李澤楷	Richard Li (1966-), Hong Kong businessman and philanthropist
李瀍	Li Chan, personal name of sixteenth Tang Emperor Wuzong 武宗[Wu3 zong1] (814-846), reigned 840-846
李煜	Li Yu (c. 937-978), given name of the final ruler of Tang of the Five Southern dynasties Li Houzhu 李後主|李后主, a renowned poet
李爾王	King Lear, 1605 tragedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚
李玟	Coco Lee (1975–2023), pop singer, songwriter and actress
李瑞環	Li Ruihuan (1934-), former Chinese politician
李登輝	Lee Teng-hui (1923–2020), Taiwanese politician, president of the Republic of China 1988–2000
李白	Li Bai (701-762), famous Tang Dynasty poet
李百藥	Li Baiyao (565-648), Tang dynasty writer and historian, compiler of History of Qi of the Northern dynasties 北齊書|北齐书
李直夫	Li Zhifu (c. 14th century), Yuan dynasty playwright in the 雜劇|杂剧[za2 ju4] style
李祝	Lizhu, personal name of twenty-first and last Tang emperor Aidi 哀帝[Ai1 di4] (892-908), reigned 904-907
李約瑟	Joseph Needham (1900-1995), British biochemist and author of Science and Civilization in China
李純	Li Chun, personal name of twelfth Tang emperor Xianzong 憲宗|宪宗[Xian4 zong1] (778-820), reigned 805-820
李綠園	Li Lüyuan (1707-1790), Qing dynasty writer, author of novel Lamp in the Side Street 岐路燈|岐路灯[Qi2 lu4 Deng1]
李維	Titus Livius or Livy (59 BC-17 AD), Roman historian
李維史陀	Claude Lévi-Strauss (1908-2009), French social anthropologist
李維斯	Levi's (brand)
李纓	Li Ying (1963-), Japanese-educated Chinese documentary film director
李群	Lie group (math.)
李翱	Li Ao (774-836), Tang dynasty scholar and writer, colleague of Han Yu 韓愈|韩愈[Han2 Yu4] in promoting classical writing 古文運動|古文运动[gu3 wen2 yun4 dong4]
李耳	Lao Zi
李肇星	Li Zhaoxing (1940-), former PRC foreign minister
李自成	Li Zicheng (1605-1645), leader of peasant rebellion at the end of the Ming Dynasty
李舜臣	Yi Sunshin (1545-1598), Korean admiral and folk hero, famous for sea victories over the Japanese invaders
李英儒	Li Yingru (1913-1989), calligrapher and writer, author of many novels about the war as seen by the communists
李衛公	Li Wei Gong; Duke Li of Wei, official title of Li Jing 李靖[Li3 Jing4]
李誦	Li Song, personal name of eleventh Tang emperor Shunzong 順宗|顺宗[Shun4 zong1] (761-806), reigned 805-806
李豫	Li Yu, personal name of ninth Tang emperor Taizong 代宗[Tai4 zong1] (727-779), reigned 762-779
李賀	Li He (790-816), Tang poet
李贄	Li Zhi (1527-1602), late Ming philosopher, historian and writer
李适	Li Kuo, personal name of tenth Tang emperor Dezong 德宗[De2 Zong1], (742-805), reigned 779-805
李連杰	Jet Li (1963–), Chinese martial artist, actor and film director
李逵	Li Kui, character in the novel Water Margin 水滸全傳|水浒全传[Shui3 hu3 quan2 zhuan4]
李遠哲	Yuan T. Lee (1936-), Taiwanese-born Chemist and Nobel Prize winner in 1986
李重茂	Li Chongmao, personal name of fifth Tang emperor Shang 唐殤帝|唐殇帝[Tang2 Shang1 Di4] (c. 695-715), reigned 710
李鐵	Li Tie (1977-), footballer
李鐵拐	Iron-Crutch Li, one of the Eight Immortals 八仙[Ba1 xian1] in Chinese mythology, walking around with an iron crutch and carrying a gourd with special medicine
李長春	Li Changchun (1944-), PRC politician
李開復	Kai-Fu Lee (1961-), Taiwanese computer scientist and IT executive, founding president of Google China 2005-2009
李陵	Li Ling (-74 BC), Han dynasty general whose defeat by the Xiongnu 匈奴 in 104 BC led to a major scandal
李隆基	personal name of seventh Tang emperor Xuanzong 唐玄宗[Tang2 Xuan2 zong1] (685-762), reigned 712-756
李雪健	Li Xuejian (1954-), Chinese actor
李靖	Li Jing (570-649 AD), Tang Dynasty general and purported author of "Duke Li of Wei Answering Emperor Taizong of Tang" 唐太宗李衛公問對|唐太宗李卫公问对[Tang2 Tai4 zong1 Li3 Wei4 Gong1 Wen4 dui4], one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1]
李顯龍	Lee Hsien Loong (1952-), Singapore PAP politician, eldest son of Lee Kuan Yew 李光耀[Li3 Guang1 yao4], prime minister from 2004
李鬼	false hero (who pretends to be 李逵[Li3 Kui2]); a fake
李鴻章	Li Hung-chang or Li Hongzhang (1823-1901), Qing dynasty general, politician and diplomat
李鴻章雜碎	chop suey (American Chinese dish)
李鵬	Li Peng (1928-2019), leading PRC politician, prime minister 1987-1998, reportedly leader of the conservative faction advocating the June 1989 Tiananmen clampdown
李麗珊	Lee Lai-Shan (1970-), former windsurfing world champion from Hong Kong
杏	apricot; (bound form) almond
杏仁	almond; apricot kernel
杏仁果	(Tw) almond
杏仁核	amygdala
杏仁豆腐	almond tofu; almond jelly (dessert made with apricot kernel milk, sugar and agar)
杏仁體	amygdala
杏子	apricot
杏林	Xinglin District of Xiamen city (renamed Haicang 海滄區|海沧区[Hai3 cang1 Qu1] in 2003)
杏林區	Xinglin District of Xiamen city 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 shi4] (renamed Haicang District 海滄區|海沧区[Hai3 cang1 Qu1] in 2003)
杏樹	apricot tree
杏眼	large, round eyes (considered beautiful)
杏臉桃腮	(idiom) (of a woman) having a fair complexion with rosy cheeks; beautiful
杏花嶺區	Xinghualing, a district of Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
杏花村	village of blossoming apricot trees where one can find a wineshop (reference to the famous poem 清明 by 杜牧[Du4 Mu4])
杏鮑菇	king oyster mushroom (Pleurotus eryngii)
材	material; timber; ability
材料	(raw) material; data
材料學	materials science
材料科學	materials science
材積	volume (of timber)
材質	texture of timber; quality of material; material (that sth is made of)
村	village; (dialect) to scold; rustic; boorish
村上	Murakami (Japanese surname)
村上春樹	MURAKAMI Haruki (1949-), Japanese novelist and translator
村上隆	Murakami Takashi (1963-), Japanese artist
村塾	(old) village school; rural school
村夫	male villager; (derog.) male peasant
村姑	village girl; country bumpkin
村委會	village committee
村婦	female villager; (derog.) female peasant
村子	village
村寨	(stockaded) village
村山富市	Tomiichi Murayama (1924-), former prime minister of Japan
村民	villager
村田	Murata (Japanese surname)
村舍	cottage
村莊	village; hamlet
村落	village
村證房	"village-certificated house", residence supposedly only transferable to other village residents but often sold on the open market
村里	village; hamlet
村鎮	hamlet (place)
村長	village chief; village head
杓	(literary) handle of a spoon or ladle
杓子	scoop
杕	lone-standing tree
杖	a staff; a rod; cane
杖刑	beating with wooden staves (as corporal punishment)
杖責	(literary) to punish by beating with a rod
杖頭木偶	zhangtou wooden rod puppetry
杗	ridge-pole in roof
杙	post for tethering animals
杜	birchleaf pear (tree); to stop; to prevent
杜仲	eucommia (a kind of rubber tree)
杜伊斯堡	Duisburg, city in the Ruhr 魯爾區|鲁尔区[Lu3 er3 Qu1], Germany
杜冷丁	(medicine) dolantin (loanword); pethidine
杜口	to remain silent
杜口裹足	too frightened to move or speak
杜哈	Doha, capital of Qatar (Tw)
杜嘉班納	Dolce & Gabbana (fashion brand)
杜塞	to stop; to block
杜塞爾多夫	Düsseldorf (city in Germany)
杜塞道夫	(Tw) Düsseldorf (city in Germany)
杜威	Du Wei (1982-), Shanghai soccer star; Dewey (name)
杜宇	cuckoo; same as 杜鵑鳥|杜鹃鸟
杜尚別	Dushanbe, capital of Tajikistan
杜布羅夫尼克	Dubrovnik (city in Croatia)
杜康	Du Kang, legendary inventor of wine
杜拜	Dubai (Tw)
杜撰	to fabricate; to make sth up; invented
杜月笙	Du Yuesheng (1888-1951), Shanghai secret-society leader, banker, industrialist
杜本內	Dubonnet (name); Dubonnet (red vermouth aperitif wine)
杜松子酒	gin
杜梨	birchleaved pear (Pyrus betulaefolia)
杜比	Dolby (audio technology)
杜氏腺	Dufour gland (produces female sex hormone in bees)
杜氏腺體	Dufour gland (produces female sex hormone in bees)
杜漸防萌	to nip in the bud
杜爾伯特蒙古族自治縣	Dorbod Mongol Autonomous County, in Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
杜牧	Du Mu (803-852) Tang dynasty poet
杜琪峰	Johnnie To (1955-), Hong Kong film director
杜瓦利埃	Duvalier (name)
杜甫	Du Fu (712-770), great Tang dynasty poet
杜甫草堂	Du Fu's Thatched Cottage (park and museum in Chengdu)
杜篤瑪	Dodoma, capital of Tanzania (Tw)
杜絕	to put an end to
杜興氏肌肉營養不良症	Duchenne muscular dystrophy
杜荀鶴	Du Xunhe (846-904), Tang poet
杜莎夫人	Madame Tussaud (1761–1850), French wax sculptor who founded the eponymous wax museum in London
杜蕾斯	Durex, a condom brand name
杜蘅	Asarum forbesii (wild ginger plant)
杜衡	Asarum forbesii (wild ginger plant)
杜賓犬	Doberman (dog breed)
杜邦	DuPont (company)
杜門	to close the door (lit. and fig.)
杜集區	Duji, a district of Huaibei City 淮北市[Huai2 bei3 Shi4], Anhui
杜馬	Duma, lower chamber of Russian parliament
杜鬆子	juniper berry
杜鵑	cuckoo (Cercococcyx spp., also written 杜鵑鳥|杜鹃鸟)
杜鵑啼血	lit. the cuckoo, after its tears are exhausted, continues by weeping blood (idiom)
杜鵑座	Tucana (constellation)
杜鵑科	Cuculidae, bird family including cuckoo 杜鵑鳥|杜鹃鸟
杜鵑花	Indian Azalea (Rhododendron simsii Planch)
杜鵑花科	Ericaceae (botany), genus containing rhododendron and azalea
杜鵑鳥	cuckoo (Cercococcyx spp.)
杝	(tree)
杞	Chinese wolfberry shrub (Lycium chinense); willow
杞人之憂	(lit.) the fear held by a man of 杞[Qi3] that the sky would fall (idiom)
杞人憂天	(lit.) like the man of 杞[Qi3] who feared the sky would fall (idiom)
杞國	the State of Qǐ in modern Qǐ county 杞縣|杞县, Henan (c. 1500-445 BC), a small vassal state of Shang and Western Zhou for most of its existence
杞婦	the wife of 杞梁[Qi3 Liang2], a senior official of the state of Qi 杞[Qi3] who died on a military expedition
杞梓之林	(idiom) a multitude of talented people
杞縣	Qi County or Qixian, a county in Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
束	to bind; bunch; bundle
束之高閣	tied up in a bundle on a high shelf; to put sth on the back burner
束手	to have one's hands tied; helpless; unable to do anything about it
束手就擒	(lit.) to submit to having one's hands tied and being taken prisoner (idiom)
束手就斃	hands tied and expecting the worst
束手待斃	to wait helplessly for death (idiom); to resign oneself to extinction
束手待死	hands tied and expecting the worst
束手束腳	(idiom) restricted; constrained; inhibited
束手無策	lit. to have one's hands bound and be unable to do anything about it (idiom); fig. helpless in the face of a crisis
束狹	narrow (of waterway); a bottleneck
束緊	gird; tighten
束線帶	cable tie
束縛	to bind; to tie up; to fetter; to shackle
束胸	to bind one's breasts; breast binder
束脩	(literary) salary of a private tutor
束腰	girdle
束腹	corset; girdle
束衣	corset (clothing)
束裝	to bundle up (one's possessions for a journey)
束身	to bind oneself; submission
束身內衣	corset
束髮	to tie up one's hair
杠	flagpole; footbridge
杠杆收購	leveraged buyout (LBO)
杠精	(slang) (neologism c. 2018) argumentative person
杧	used in 杧果[mang2 guo3]
杪	the limit; tip of branch
杭	surname Hang; abbr. for Hangzhou 杭州[Hang2 zhou1]
杭州市	Hangzhou, sub-provincial city and capital of Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
杭州灣	Hangzhou Bay
杭錦	Hanggin banner, Mongolian Xanggin khoshuu, in Ordos prefecture 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
杭錦後旗	Hanggin Rear banner or Xanggin Xoit khoshuu in Bayan Nur 巴彥淖爾|巴彦淖尔[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3], Inner Mongolia
杭錦旗	Hanggin banner, Mongolian Xanggin khoshuu, in Ordos prefecture 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
杯	cup; trophy cup
杯中物	the contents of the cup; (fig.) liquor; wine
杯具	cup; (slang) (pun on 悲劇|悲剧[bei1 ju4], tragedy) so bad; terrible
杯墊	(beverage) coaster
杯套	cup sleeve
杯子	cup; glass
杯弓蛇影	lit. to see a bow reflected in a cup as a snake (idiom); fig. unnecessary suspicions
杯托	a saucer
杯水車薪	lit. a cup of water on a burning cart of firewood (idiom); fig. an utterly inadequate measure
杯盤狼藉	cups and dishes in complete disorder (idiom); after a riotous drinking party
杯葛	(dialect) (loanword) to boycott
杯蓋	cup lid; cup cover
杯酒解怨	a wine cup dissolves complaints (idiom); a few drinks can ease social interaction
杯酒言歡	a few drinks and a nice conversation (idiom)
杯酒釋兵權	to dismiss military hierarchy using wine cups
杯麵	cup noodles
東	east; host (i.e. sitting on east side of guest); landlord
東一榔頭西一棒子	banging away clumsily in all directions with no overall vision
東三省	the three provinces of Northeast China, namely: Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3], Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3] and Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
東中國海	East China sea
東主	owner (e.g. of a shop)
東亞	East Asia
東亞峰會	East Asia Summit, annual meeting of leading Asian states
東亞病夫	(derog.) "the Sick Man of Asia" (historical term referring to China in its weakened state in the late 19th and early 20th centuries)
東亞石䳭	(bird species of China) Amur stonechat; Stejneger's stonechat (Saxicola stejnegeri)
東亞運動會	East Asian Games
東亞銀行	Bank of East Asia
東交民巷	East Jiaomin Lane, a street in central Beijing and its surrounding district, formerly known as the Peking Legation Quarter, where foreign diplomatic missions were located during the period 1861–1959
東京	Tokyo, capital of Japan
東京塔	Tokyo Tower
東京大學	Tokyo University, Japan
東京帝國大學	Tokyo Imperial University (renamed Tokyo University after 1945)
東京灣	Tokyo Bay; former name of 北部灣|北部湾[Bei3 bu4 Wan1], Gulf of Tonkin
東伊運	abbr. for 東突厥斯坦伊斯蘭運動|东突厥斯坦伊斯兰运动[Dong1 Tu1 jue2 si1 tan3 Yi1 si1 lan2 Yun4 dong4] East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM)
東倉里	Dongchang-ni, North Korean missile launch site on Yellow Sea, 70 km from Chinese border
東倉鴞	(bird species of China) eastern barn owl (Tyto javanica)
東倒西歪	to lean unsteadily from side to side (idiom); to sway
東側	east side; east face
東光縣	Dongguang, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
東兔西烏	lit. the sun setting and the moon rising (idiom)
東加	Tonga, South Pacific archipelago kingdom (Tw)
東勝區	Dongsheng, a district of Ordos City 鄂爾多斯市|鄂尔多斯市[E4 er3 duo1 si1 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
東北	Northeast China; Manchuria
東北亞	Northeast Asia
東北大學	Northeastern University (in Shenyang 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 shi4], Liaoning)
東北平原	Northeast Plain, also called the Manchurian Plain
東北方	northeast; northeastern
東北虎	Amur tiger (Panthera tigris altaica)
東區	Dong District or Dongqu, a district of Panzhihua City 攀枝花市[Pan1 zhi1 hua1 Shi4], Sichuan
東半球	the Eastern Hemisphere
東協	(Tw) ASEAN (abbr. for 東南亞國協|东南亚国协[Dong1 nan2 ya4 Guo2 Xie2])
東南	southeast
東南亞	Southeast Asia
東南亞國協	(Tw) ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations)
東南亞國家聯盟	ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations)
東南大學	Southeast University
東南西北	east, south, west and north; all directions
東南西北中	the five directions 五方 east, south, west, north and middle
東南部	southeast part
東印度公司	East India Company
東台市	Dongtai, a county-level city in Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
東君	Lord of the East, the sun God of Chinese mythology
東吳	Eastern Wu (222-280)
東吳大學	Soochow University (Suzhou, PRC from 1900-1952)
東周	Eastern Zhou (770-221 BC)
東土	the East; China
東坡區	Dongpo, a district of Meishan City 眉山市[Mei2 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
東坡肉	stir-fried pork, favorite of Northern Song writer Su Shi 蘇軾|苏轼, a.k.a. Su Dongpo 蘇東坡|苏东坡
東坡肘子	Dongpo pork shoulder, traditional dish said to have been created by Northern Song dynasty writer Su Dongpo 蘇東坡|苏东坡
東城區	Dongcheng, a district of central Beijing
東大	(slang) China
東太平洋	east Pacific
東太平洋海隆	East Pacific Rise (a mid-oceanic ridge stretching from California to Antarctica)
東太平洋隆起	East Pacific Rise (a mid-oceanic ridge stretching from California to Antarctica)
東夷	Eastern Barbarians, non-Han tribe living to the east of China c 2200 BC
東奔西走	to run this way and that (idiom); to rush about busily
東奔西跑	to run this way and that (idiom); to rush about busily
東安區	Dong'an, a district of Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
東安縣	Dong'an, a county in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
東家	master (i.e. employer); landlord; boss
東家長西家短	to gossip (idiom)
東密	Japanese Esoteric Buddhism
東密德蘭	East Midlands, English county
東寧市	Dongning, a county-level city in Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
東寶區	Dongbao, a district of Jingmen City 荊門市|荆门市[Jing1 men2 Shi4], Hubei
東山再起	lit. to return to office after living as a hermit on Mount Dongshan (idiom); fig. to make a comeback
東山區	Dongshan, a district of Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
東山縣	Dongshan, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
東嶽	Mt Tai 泰山 in Shandong, one of the Five Sacred Mountains 五嶽|五岳[Wu3 yue4]
東川區	Dongchuan, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
東巴文化	Dongba culture of the Nakhi ethnic group of Lijiang 麗江|丽江 in northwest Yunnan
東帝汶	Timor-Leste (East Timor)
東平縣	Dongping, a county in Tai'an City 泰安市[Tai4 an1 Shi4], Shandong
東床	son-in-law
東引	Tungyin Island, one of the Matsu Islands
東張西望	to look in all directions (idiom); to glance around
東征	punitive expedition to the east
東征西怨	war on all sides (idiom); fighting from all four quarters
東征西討	war on all sides (idiom); fighting from all four quarters
東德	East Germany (1945-1990)
東拉西扯	to talk about this and that (idiom); to ramble incoherently
東拼西湊	(idiom) to assemble from bits and pieces; to combine items from disparate sources
東掩西遮	to cover up the truth on all sides (idiom)
東搖西擺	(idiom) to sway from side to side; unsteady
東方	the East; the Orient; two-character surname Dongfang
東方三博士	the Magi
東方不亮西方亮	if it isn't bright in the east, it'll be bright in the west (idiom)
東方嘰咋柳鶯	(bird species of China) mountain chiffchaff (Phylloscopus sindianus)
東方壽帶	(bird species of China) Blyth's paradise flycatcher (Terpsiphone affinis)
東方大葦鶯	(bird species of China) oriental reed warbler (Acrocephalus orientalis)
東方市	Dongfang City, Hainan
東方文明	Eastern civilization
東方斑䳭	(bird species of China) variable wheatear (Oenanthe picata)
東方日報	Oriental Daily News
東方明珠塔	Oriental Pearl Tower
東方明珠電視塔	Oriental Pearl Television Tower
東方狍	Siberian roe deer (Capreolus pygargus)
東方白鸛	(bird species of China) oriental stork (Ciconia boyciana)
東方紅	The East is Red, north Shaanxi folk song
東方航空	China Eastern Airlines
東方阿閦佛	Aksobhya, the imperturbable ruler of Eastern Paradise, Abhirati
東方馬腦炎病毒	eastern equine encephalitis (EEE) virus
東方鴴	(bird species of China) oriental plover (Anarhynchus veredus)
東施效顰	lit. Dong Shi imitates Xi Shi's frown (idiom)
東昌區	Dongchang, a district of Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
東昌府區	Dongchangfu, a district of Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
東明縣	Dongming, a county in Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
東晉	Eastern Jin dynasty 317-420
東東	(coll.) thing; item; stuff
東條英機	Tojo Hideki (1884-1948), Japanese military leader hanged as war criminal in 1948
東歐	Eastern Europe
東歐平原	East European Plain
東正教	Eastern Orthodox Church
東歸	lit. to return east; fig. to return to one's homeland
東江	Dongjiang River
東河區	Donghe, a district of Baotou City 包頭市|包头市[Bao1 tou2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
東洋	Japan (old); East Asian countries
東洋界	Indomalayan realm
東洋話	Japanese (language) (old)
東洋鬼	(esp. during resistance against Japanese aggression 1931–1945) Jap; Nip
東洋鬼子	(esp. during resistance against Japanese aggression 1931–1945) Jap; Nip
東洲區	Dongzhou, a district of Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
東海	East China Sea; East Sea (Chinese mythology and ancient geography)
東海大學	Tunghai University (in Taichung, Taiwan)
東海大橋	Donghai Bridge, 32.5 km bridge between Shanghai and the offshore Yangshan deep-water port
東海岸	East Coast
東海縣	Donghai, a county in Lianyungang City 連雲港市|连云港市[Lian2 yun2 gang3 Shi4], Jiangsu
東海艦隊	East Sea Fleet
東港	Donggang, the name of various places, including 東港市|东港市[Dong1 gang3 Shi4], a county-level city in Dandong 丹東市|丹东市[Dan1 dong1 Shi4], Liaoning, and 東港區|东港区[Dong1 gang3 Qu1], a district of Rizhao 日照市[Ri4 zhao4 Shi4], Shandong
東港區	Donggang, a district of Rizhao City 日照市[Ri4 zhao4 Shi4], Shandong
東港市	Donggang, a county-level city in Dandong City 丹東市|丹东市[Dan1 dong1 Shi4], Liaoning
東湖區	Donghu, a district of Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
東源縣	Dongyuan, a county in Heyuan City 河源市[He2 yuan2 Shi4], Guangdong
東漢	Eastern or later Han dynasty, 25-220
東瀛	(literary) East China Sea; (literary) Japan
東烏珠穆沁旗	East Ujimqin banner or Züün Üzemchin khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
東營區	Dongying, a district of Dongying City 東營市|东营市[Dong1 ying2 Shi4], Shandong
東營市	Dongying, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
東王公	Mu Kung or Tung Wang Kung, God of the Immortals (Taoism)
東疆	East Xinjiang
東盟	ASEAN (abbr. for 東南亞國家聯盟|东南亚国家联盟[Dong1 nan2 ya4 Guo2 jia1 Lian2 meng2])
東直門	Dongzhimen neighborhood of Beijing
東突	East Turkestan Liberation Organization (ETLO), Chinese dissident group
東突厥斯坦	East Turkestan; historical term for Xinjiang
東突厥斯坦伊斯蘭運動	East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM)
東突厥斯坦解放組織	East Turkestan Liberation Organization (ETLO), Xinjiang dissident group
東突組織	abbr. for 東突厥斯坦解放組織|东突厥斯坦解放组织[Dong1 Tu1 jue2 si1 tan3 Jie3 fang4 Zu3 zhi1], East Turkestan Liberation Organization (ETLO)
東窗事發	(of a plot etc) to be exposed (idiom); to come to light
東端	eastern extremity
東經	east longitude
東緬高原	Eastern Myanmar plateau
東羅馬帝國	Eastern Roman empire or Byzantium (395-1453)
東胡	Eastern barbarian; ancient ethnic group of northeast frontier of China
東至縣	Dongzhi, a county in Chizhou City 池州市[Chi2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
東興區	Dongxing, a district of Neijiang City 內江市|内江市[Nei4 jiang1 Shi4], Sichuan
東興市	Dongxing, a county-level city in Fangchenggang City 防城港市[Fang2 cheng2 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
東芝	Toshiba, Japanese electronics company
東莞市	Dongguan, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
東華三院	Tung Wah Group of Hospitals (Hong Kong)
東蘭縣	Donglan, a county in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
東西	thing; stuff; person
東西半球	East and West hemispheres
東西南北	east west south north
東西周	Western Zhou (1045-771 BC) and Eastern Zhou (770-256 BC)
東西寬	east-west distance
東西德	East and West Germany
東西方	east and west; east to west
東西方文化	Eastern and Western culture
東西湖區	Dongxihu, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
東觀漢記	Dongguan Hanji, a history of the Eastern Han dynasty consisting of 143 volumes compiled by many 1st and 2nd century authors
東討西征	war on all sides (idiom); fighting from all four quarters
東豐縣	Dongfeng, a county in Liaoyuan City 遼源市|辽源市[Liao2 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
東躲西閃	to dodge about
東道	host
東道主	host; official host (e.g. venue for games or a conference)
東道國	host country; host state
東遼縣	Dongliao, a county in Liaoyuan City 遼源市|辽源市[Liao2 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
東邊	east; east side; eastern part
東部	the east; eastern part
東部時間	Eastern Standard Time (EST)
東郭	two-character surname Dongguo
東鄉	Dongxiang ethnic group
東鄉區	Dongxiang, a district of Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
東鄉族	Dongxiang ethnic group
東鄉族自治縣	Dongxiang Autonomous County, in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
東阿縣	Dong'e, a county in Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
東陽市	Dongyang, a county-level city in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
東非	East Africa
東非共同體	East African Community
東非大地塹	Great East African rift valley
東非大裂谷	East African Rift Valley
東面	east side (of sth)
東風	easterly wind; spring breeze
東風區	Dongfeng, a district of Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
東風壓倒西風	lit. the east wind prevails over the west wind (idiom)
東魏	Eastern Wei of the Northern dynasties (534-550), formed from the break-up of Wei of the Northern Dynasties 北魏
東鱗西爪	lit. a dragon's scale from the east and a dragon's claw from the west
東麗	Dongli suburban district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
東麗區	Dongli suburban district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
杲	high; sun shines brightly; to shine
杳	dark and quiet; disappear
杳冥	dim and dusky; far and indistinct
杳如黃鶴	to be gone forever (idiom); to disappear without a trace
杳杳	deep and somber
杳渺	dimly discernible
杳無人跡	(idiom) without trace of human presence; uninhabited; deserted
杳無音信	to have no news whatever
杳然	quiet, silent, and lonely; far and indistinct; gone without a trace
杳茫	distant and out of sight
杳靄	far and deep
杴	shovel
杵	pestle; to poke
杶	(tree)
杷	handle or shaft (of an axe etc); hoe; to harrow
杸	to kill; a spear
杻	handcuffs; red apricot
杼	shuttle of a loom
杽	a kind of wooden handcuffs
松	surname Song
松下	Matsushita (name)
松下公司	Panasonic Corporation (formerly Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.)
松下電器	Panasonic Corporation (formerly Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.)
松下電氣工業	Matsushita Electronics Industry
松井	Matsui (Japanese surname)
松仁	pine nut
松化石	turquoise (gemstone); also written 松石
松北區	Songbei, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
松原市	Songyuan, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
松口蘑	matsutake (Tricholoma matsutake), edible mushroom considered a great delicacy in Japan
松塔	pine cone
松子	pine nut
松尾	Matsuo (Japanese surname and place name)
松山	Songshan or Sungshan District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
松山區	Songshan or Sungshan District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
松島	Matsushima (name)
松嶺區	Songling, a district of Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
松巴哇	Sumbawa, Indonesian island east of Java
松巴哇島	Sumbawa, Indonesian island east of Java
松明	pine torch
松木	pine wood; deal; larch
松本	Matsumoto (Japanese surname and place name)
松果	pine cone; strobile; strobilus
松果腺	pineal body
松果體	pineal body
松果體素	(biochemistry) melatonin
松柏	pine and cypress; fig. chaste and undefiled; fig. tomb
松桃苗族自治縣	Songtao Miao Autonomous County, in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
松樹	pine; pine tree
松江	Songjiang suburban district of Shanghai
松江區	Songjiang suburban district of Shanghai
松溪縣	Songxi, a county in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
松滋市	Songzi, a county-level city in Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
松潘縣	Songpan, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
松球	pine cone
松瓤	(literary) pine nut
松田	Matsuda (Japanese surname)
松石	turquoise (gemstone)
松科	pinaceae
松節油	turpentine
松花江	Songhua River in Jilin province 吉林省 through Harbin 哈爾濱|哈尔滨[Ha1 er3 bin1], a tributary of Heilongjiang 黑龍江|黑龙江
松花蛋	century egg; preserved egg
松茸	matsutake (Tricholoma matsutake), edible mushroom considered a great delicacy in Japan
松菌	matsutake (Tricholoma matsutake), edible mushroom considered a great delicacy in Japan
松蘑	matsutake (Tricholoma matsutake), edible mushroom considered a great delicacy in Japan
松贊干布	Songtsen Gampo or Songzain Gambo (604-650) Tibetan emperor, founder of the Tubo 吐蕃[Tu3 bo1] dynasty
松贊干布陵	the tomb of Tibetan king Songtsen Gampo or Songzain Gambo in Lhoka prefecture
松遼平原	Songliao Plain of northeast China including Songhua River 松花江 through the Liaoning Peninsula, also called the Northeast Plain 東北平原|东北平原[Dong1 bei3 Ping2 yuan2]
松針	pine needle
松阪豬	(Tw) Matsusaka pork – premium cut of pork, usually from the neck or jowl, noted for its fine marbling and tenderness, named by analogy with Japan's famous Matsusaka beef, not by origin
松陽縣	Songyang, a county in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
松雀	(bird species of China) pine grosbeak (Pinicola enucleator)
松雀鷹	(bird species of China) besra (Accipiter virgatus)
松雞	grouse
松露	truffle
松露豬	truffle hog
松香	rosin; pine rosin
松鴉	(bird species of China) Eurasian jay (Garrulus glandarius)
松鶴遐齡	longevity
松鼠	squirrel
板	board; plank; plate
板上釘釘	that clinches it; that's final; no two ways about it
板兒爺	(coll.) pedicab driver
板凳	wooden bench or stool
板刷	scrubbing brush
板塊	slab; (geology) tectonic plate
板塊構造	plate tectonics
板塊理論	plate tectonics
板壁	wooden partition
板子	board; plank; bamboo or birch for corporal punishment
板寸	buzz cut (hairstyle)
板岩	slate
板式塔	distillation tower; bubble tower; plate column
板房	temporary housing built with wooden planks or other makeshift materials
板扎	(dialect) awesome; excellent
板擦	blackboard or whiteboard eraser
板擦兒	blackboard or whiteboard eraser
板斧	broad axe
板書	to write on the blackboard; writing on the blackboard
板材	sheet materials (wood, metal, plastic etc)
板板	solemn
板板六十四	unaccommodating; rigid
板栗	Chinese chestnut
板梁橋	plate girder bridge
板條	lath
板條箱	crate
板樁	sheet pile
板樓	slab type building
板橋	Banqiao or Panchiao city in Taiwan
板橋市	Banqiao or Panchiao city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
板油	leaf fat; leaf lard
板溝	chalkboard ledge; whiteboard ledge
板滯	stiff; dull
板煙	plug (of tobacco)
板牙	incisor; molar; screw die
板狀	board-shaped
板球	cricket (ball game)
板皮	slab
板眼	measure in traditional Chinese music; orderliness
板磚	(dialect) wall brick
板紙	paperboard; board
板結	soil crusting
板羽球	battledore and shuttlecock; shuttlecock
板胡	a bowed stringed instrument with a thin wooden soundboard
板臉	to put on a straight, stern or blank face; to put on a poker face
板藍根	indigo woad root; root of Isatis tinctoria (used in TCM)
板規	plate gauge
板車	handcart; flatbed cart; flatbed tricycle
板門店	Panmunjeom, the Joint Security Area in the Korean demilitarized zone
板鞋	skate shoes
板鴨	pressed (dried) salted duck
板麵	pan mee, aka banmian, a Hakka noodle soup dish, popular in Malaysia
板鼓	small drum for marking time
枇	used in 枇杷[pi2 pa5]
枇杷	loquat tree (Eriobotrya japonica); loquat fruit
枇杷膏	Pei Pa Koa, proprietary cough syrup made with traditional Chinese herbs
枉	to twist; crooked; unjust
枉勞	to work in vain
枉徑	winding lane
枉攘	tumultuous; disorderly
枉死	to die in tragic circumstances
枉法	to circumvent the law
枉然	in vain; to no avail
枉費	to waste (one's breath, one's energy etc); to try in vain
枉顧	to neglect; to misuse; to mistreat
枊	(literary) post for tethering a horse
枋	Santalum album; square wooden pillar
枌	(tree)
析	to separate; to divide; to analyze
析出	to separate out
析毫剖釐	to analyze in the finest detail
析疑	to resolve a doubt
枒	the coconut tree; rim
枓	(architecture) square wooden bearing block used to support a bracket in a dougong 斗拱[dou3 gong3] bracket system
枕	(bound form) pillow; to rest one's head on (Taiwan pr. [zhen4])
枕冷衾寒	cold pillow and lonely bed (idiom); fig. cold and solitary existence
枕塊	to use clay for a pillow (during mourning period)
枕套	pillowcase
枕巾	pillow cloth
枕席	mat used to cover a pillow; (literary) bed
枕席兒	erhua form of 枕席[zhen3 xi2]
枕心	bare pillow (i.e. the pillow without pillow-case)
枕戈寢甲	lit. to sleep on one's armor with a spear as a pillow (idiom)
枕戈待旦	lit. to wait for dawn, one's head resting on a spear (idiom)
枕木	railroad tie; sleeper
枕狀熔岩	(geology) pillow lava
枕石漱流	to live a hermit's life (in seclusion); a frugal life (idiom)
枕葉	occipital lobe
枕藉	to lie in total disorder; lying fallen over one another
枕邊人	the person who shares one's bed; partner; spouse
枕邊故事	bedtime story
枕邊風	pillow talk
枕頭	pillow
枕頭大戰	pillow fight
枕頭套	pillow case
枕頭箱	Chinese pillow box (used to keep valuables)
枕頭蛋糕	loaf cake
枕骨	occipital bone (back of the skull)
林	surname Lin; Japanese surname Hayashi
林三趾鶉	(bird species of China) common buttonquail (Turnix sylvaticus)
林來瘋	Linsanity; craze over Jeremy Lin 林書豪|林书豪[Lin2 Shu1 hao2]
林俊傑	JJ Lin (1981–), Singaporean pop star
林克平大學	Linköping University, Sweden
林八哥	(bird species of China) great myna (Acridotheres grandis)
林則徐	Lin Zexu or Lin Tse-hsu "Commissioner Lin" (1785-1850), Qing official whose anti-opium activities led to first Opium war with Britain 1840-1842
林務	forestry
林區	region of forest
林卡	transliteration of Tibetan lingka: garden
林口縣	Linkou, a county in Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
林可黴素	(pharmacology) lincomycin
林吉特	ringgit (monetary unit of Malaysia) (loanword)
林周縣	Lhünzhub, a county in Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
林地	woodland
林堡	Limburg, Netherlands; Limbourg, Belgium
林場	forestry station; forest management area
林壑	woods and ravines; tranquillity of trees and valleys
林夜鷹	(bird species of China) savanna nightjar (Caprimulgus affinis)
林奈	Carl Linnaeus; Carl Linné
林子	woods; grove; forest
林子大了，什麼鳥都有	it takes all sorts (to make a world) (idiom)
林學	forestry
林家翹	Lin Chia-Chiao (1916-2013), Chinese-American physicist, astronomer and applied mathematician
林嶺雀	(bird species of China) plain mountain finch (Leucosticte nemoricola)
林州市	Linzhou, a county-level city in Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
林彪	Lin Biao (1908–1971), Chinese army leader at the time of the Cultural Revolution
林德布拉德	Lindeblatt (name)
林心如	Ruby Lin (1976-), Taiwanese actress and pop singer
林志玲	Lin Chi-ling (1974-), Taiwanese model and actress
林憶蓮	Sandy Lam (1966-), Hong Kong pop singer
林懷民	Lin Hwai-Min (1947-), Taiwanese choreographer and dancer
林旭	Lin Xu (1875-1898), one of the Six Gentlemen Martyrs 戊戌六君子[Wu4 xu1 Liu4 jun1 zi5] of the unsuccessful reform movement of 1898
林書豪	Jeremy Lin (1988-), Taiwanese-American professional basketball player (NBA)
林木	forest; forest tree
林林總總	in great abundance; numerous
林柳鶯	(bird species of China) wood warbler (Phylloscopus sibilatrix)
林森	Lin Sen (1868-1943), revolutionary politician, colleague of Sun Yat-sen, chairman of the Chinese nationalist government (1928-1932)
林業	forest industry; forestry
林檎	Chinese pearleaf crabapple (Malus asiatica)
林沖	Lin Chong, one of the Heroes of the Marsh in Water Margin
林沙錐	(bird species of China) wood snipe (Gallinago nemoricola)
林火	forest fire
林琴南	courtesy name of Lin Shu 林紓|林纾[Lin2 Shu1]
林甸縣	Lindian, a county in Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
林立	to stand in great numbers
林紓	Lin Shu (1852-1924), writer and influential translator and adaptor of vast swathes of Western literature into Classical Chinese
林縣	Lin county in Henan
林肯	Lincoln (name); Abraham Lincoln (1809-1865), US president 1861-1865
林肯郡	Lincolnshire (English county)
林芝市	Nyingchi, prefecture-level city in Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
林茨	Linz (city in Austria)
林蔭道	boulevard; avenue
林藪	woods and marshes
林西縣	Linxi, a county in Chifeng City 赤峰市[Chi4 feng1 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
林語堂	Lin Yutang (1895-1976), Chinese writer, linguist and inventor
林豐正	Lin Fong-cheng (1940-), Taiwanese politician
林逋	Lin Bu (967-1028), Northern Song poet
林鄭	Carrie Lam (1957-), chief executive of Hong Kong 2017-, full name 林鄭月娥|林郑月娥[Lin2 Zheng4 Yue4 e2] Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor
林陰大道	boulevard; tree-lined avenue
林雪平	Linköping, city in southeast Sweden
林青霞	Brigitte Lin (1954-), Taiwanese actress
林鵰	(bird species of China) black eagle (Ictinaetus malaiensis)
林鵰鴞	(bird species of China) spot-bellied eagle-owl (Ketupa nipalensis)
林鷚	(bird species of China) tree pipit (Anthus trivialis)
林鷸	(bird species of China) wood sandpiper (Tringa glareola)
林黛玉	Lin Daiyu, female character in The Dream of Red Mansions, cousin and thwarted lover of Jia Baoyu 賈寶玉|贾宝玉
枘	tenon; tool handle; wedge
枘鑿	incompatible (abbr. for 方枘圓鑿|方枘圆凿[fang1 rui4 yuan2 zao2])
枙	tree knot
枚	classifier for small objects: coins, badges, rings, carved seals, chess pieces, eggs, fingerprints etc (more formal than 個|个[ge4])
枚乘	Mei Cheng (-c. 140 BC), Han dynasty poet
枚卜	to choose officials by divination (archaic)
枚舉	to enumerate
果	fruit; result; resolute
果不其然	(idiom) just as expected
果乾	dried fruit
果仁	fruit kernel
果仁兒	fruit kernel
果仁密餅	baklava
果倍爽	Capri-Sun, juice drink brand
果凍	gelatin dessert
果切	fresh-cut fruit
果品	fruit
果啤	fruit beer
果園	orchard
果報	karma; preordained fate (Buddhism)
果如所料	just as expected
果子	fruit
果子凍	jelly
果子狸	masked palm civet (Paguma larvata)
果子醬	marmalade; jellied fruit
果子露	fruit drink
果實	fruit (produced by a plant); (fig.) fruits (of success etc); results
果實散播	fruit dispersal
果實累累	lit. prodigious abundance of fruit (idiom)
果嶺	green (golf) (loanword)
果戈里	Nikolai Gogol (1809-1852), Russian author and dramatist
果播	dissemination as fruit (evolutionary strategy for seed dispersal)
果敢	courageous; resolute and daring
果料兒	fruit ingredients (for cakes and desserts)
果斷	firm; decisive
果昔	(Tw) smoothie
果期	the fruiting season
果木	fruit tree
果柄	stem of a fruit
果核	stone (of a fruit); pit
果樹	fruit tree
果汁	fruit juice
果汁機	blender (device); juicer
果決	firm; unwavering
果泥	fruit puree; fruit pulp
果洛藏族自治州	Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
果然	really; sure enough; as expected
果皮	(fruit) peel
果盤	fruit plate; fruit platter
果真	really; as expected; sure enough
果穗	ear (of corn or sorghum etc); bunch (of grapes); infructescence
果粉	(slang) fan of Apple products
果粒	fruit pieces; fruit chunks
果糖	fructose
果肉	the flesh of a fruit; pulp
果脯	candied fruit
果腹	to eat one's fill
果膠	pectin
果若	if
果茶	fruit tea
果葡糖漿	glucose-fructose syrup
果蔬	fruit and vegetables
果蠅	fruit fly
果農	fruit farmer
果酒	fruit wine
果醬	jam
果餡餅	tart
枝	branch; classifier for sticks, rods, pencils etc
枝子	twig; branch
枝幹	branch; limb (of a tree)
枝晶	(crystallography, metallurgy) dendrite; dendritic crystal
枝條	branch; twig; stem
枝椏	branch; twig
枝江市	Zhijiang, a county-level city in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
枝節	branches and knots; fig. side issue; minor peripheral problem
枝節橫生	side issues keep arising (idiom)
枝繁葉茂	(of plants) to grow luxuriantly; (fig.) (of a family or business etc) to prosper; to flourish
枝葉	branch and leaf
枝蔓	branches and tendrils; fig. overcomplicated or digressive
枟	wood streaks
枯	(of plants) withered; (of wells, rivers etc) dried up
枯乾	dried up; shriveled; withered
枯寂	bleak; desolate; devoid of liveliness
枯木	dead tree
枯木逢春	lit. the spring comes upon a withered tree (idiom)
枯朽	withered and rotten
枯槁	(of vegetation) withered; (of a person) haggard
枯樹	withered tree
枯死	(of a plant) to wither and die; withered and dead
枯水	scarce water; low water level
枯水期	dry season; low-water period
枯燥	dry and dull; uninteresting; tedious
枯燥無味	tedious; dreary
枯竭	used up; dried up; exhausted (of resources)
枯茗	(loanword) cumin
枯草	withered grass; dry grass
枯草桿菌	bacillus subtilis
枯草熱	hay fever
枯萎	to wilt; to wither; wilted
枯萎病	blight
枯葉	dead leaf; withered leaf
枯葉劑	Agent Orange (herbicide)
枰	chess-like game
枲	male nettle-hemp
枳	(orange); hedge thorn
枳實	dried fruit of immature citron or trifoliate orange (used in TCM)
枳殼	bitter orange (Fructus aurantii) (used in TCM)
枴	cane; walking stick; crutch
枵	(archaic) hollow of a tree; (literary) empty; hollow
架	to support; frame; rack
架上繪畫	easel painting
架不住	(coll.) unable to withstand; cannot bear; can't stand it
架二郎腿	to stick one leg over the other (when sitting)
架勢	attitude; position (on an issue etc)
架子	shelf; frame; stand
架子豬	feeder pig
架子車	two-wheeled handcart
架子鼓	drum kit
架拐	to use a crutch
架構	to construct; to build; structure; framework; architecture
架構師	(computing) architect
架橋	to bridge; to put up a bridge
架次	sortie; flight
架空	to build (a hut etc) on stilts; to install (power lines etc) overhead
架空歷史	alternate history; counterfactual history (genre of fiction)
架空索道	aerial ropeway; cable car
架設	to construct; to erect
架走	to hustle sb away
枷	cangue (wooden collar like stocks used to restrain and punish criminals in China)
枷板	cangue; fig. difficult situation
枷銷	yoke; chains; shackles
枷鎖	stocks and chain; in fetters
枸	used in 枸骨[gou3 gu3]; used in 枸杞[gou3 qi3]
枸杞	wolfberry (Lycium chinense); genus Lycium
枸杞子	goji berry
枸橘	trifoliate orange (Citrus trifoliata)
枸櫞	citron (Citrus medica)
枸骨	Chinese holly (Ilex cornuta)
枹	Quercus glandulifera
枻	oar; stand for correcting a bow
柁	main beam of roof
柂	(literary) (botany) (a species of linden whose timber was used to make coffins in ancient times)
柃	Eurya japonica
柄	handle or shaft (of an axe etc); (of a flower, leaf or fruit) stem
柄國	to hold state power; to rule
柄政	to rule; to be in power
柄權	to hold power
柄臣	powerful official; big shot
柅	(tree); to stop
柈	plate
柊	used in 柊葉|柊叶[zhong1 ye4]
柊葉	Phrynium capitatum
柎	calyx of flower
柏	used in 黃柏|黄柏[huang2 bo4]; Taiwan pr. [bo2]
柏克萊	Berkeley (name)
柏克郡	Berkshire (English county)
柏孜克里克千佛洞	the Bezeklik Thousand Buddha Caves, in the Turpan Basin, Xinjiang
柏崎	Kashiwazaki (Japanese surname)
柏崎刈羽	Kashiwasaki Kariwa, site of Japanese nuclear power plant near Niigata 新潟
柏崎市	Kashiwazaki city, Japan
柏悅	Park Hyatt (hotel brand)
柏拉圖	Plato (c. 427 – c. 347 BC), Greek philosopher
柏拉圖哲學	Platonism
柏林	Berlin, capital of Germany
柏林圍牆	Berlin Wall
柏林工業大學	Technical University of Berlin, Germany (Technische Universitaet zu Berlin)
柏林牆	Berlin Wall
柏柏爾	Berber people of North Africa
柏樹	cypress tree; Taiwan pr. [bo2 shu4]
柏油	asphalt; tar; pitch
柏油路	tarred road; asphalt road
柏油馬路	tarred road; asphalt road
柏節松操	chaste widowhood
柏舉之戰	Battle of Baiju (506 BC), in which Wu 吳|吴[Wu2] scored a crushing victory over Chu 楚[Chu3]
柏蒂切利	Sandro Botticelli (1445-1510) Italian painter of the Florentine school
柏遼茲	Hector Berlioz (1803-1869), French romantic composer, author of Symphonie Fantastique
柏鄉縣	Baixiang, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
柏青哥	pachinko (loanword) (Tw)
某	some; a certain; sb or sth indefinite
某事	something; a certain matter
某些	some; certain (things)
某人	someone; a certain person; some people
某地	somewhere; some place
某時	sometime
某某	so-and-so; such-and-such
某物	something
某甲	somebody; certain individual
某種	some kind (of)
某處	somewhere
柑	large tangerine
柑橘	citrus
柑橘醬	marmalade
柒	seven (banker's anti-fraud numeral)
染	to dye; to catch (a disease); to acquire (bad habits etc)
染上	to catch (a disease); to get (a bad habit)
染坊	dyehouse; dyeing workshop
染布	to dye cloth
染廠	dye factory; dye-works
染指	to dip a finger (idiom); fig. to get one's finger in the pie
染指垂涎	lit. dirty finger, mouth watering (idiom); fig. greedy to seize sth
染指於鼎	lit. dip one's finger in the tripod (idiom); fig. to get one's finger in the pie
染料	dye
染毒	contamination
染病	to catch an illness; to get infected with a disease
染織	dyeing and weaving
染色	to dye
染色質	chromatin
染色體	chromosome
染色體倍性	ploidy (number of homologous chromosomes)
染風習俗	bad habits; to get into bad habits through long custom
染髮	to get one's hair dyed
染髮劑	hair dye; rinse; tint
柔	soft; flexible; supple
柔佛	Johor (state of Malaysia at south of Malayan peninsula)
柔佛州	Johor (state in Malaysia)
柔佛海峽	Straits of Johor (between Malaysia and Singapore)
柔和	gentle; soft
柔媚	gentle and lovely; charming
柔嫩	tender; delicate (texture)
柔弱	weak; delicate
柔性	flexibility
柔情	gentle feelings; tender sentiments
柔情似水	tender and soft as water; deeply attached to sb
柔情俠骨	gentle feelings and chivalrous disposition (idiom)
柔情脈脈	full of tender feelings (idiom); tender-hearted
柔曼	soft; gentle
柔滑	soft; smooth; silky
柔美	gentle and beautiful
柔能克剛	lit. the soft can subdue the hard
柔腸寸斷	lit. to feel as if one's intestines have been cut short
柔膚水	skin toner
柔荑花序	catkin (botany)
柔術	jujitsu; contortion (performance art)
柔身術	contortion (performance art)
柔軟	soft
柔軟劑	fabric softener
柔軟精	fabric softener (Tw)
柔道	judo
柔韌	pliable and tough; supple and strong; flexible
柔順	gentle and agreeable; supple; yielding
柔順劑	fabric softener
柘	a thorny tree; sugarcane; Cudrania triloba
柘城縣	Zhecheng, a county in Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
柘弓	bow made from the 柘[zhe4] tree
柘彈	slingshot made from the 柘[zhe4] tree
柘榮縣	Zherong, a county in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
柘榴	pomegranate
柘榴石	garnet
柘樹	silkworm thorn tree
柘漿	sugarcane juice
柘硯	ink slabs from a place in Shandong
柘絲	silk from worms fed on 柘[zhe4] leaves
柘蠶	silkworms fed on the leaves of the 柘[zhe4] tree
柘袍	imperial yellow robe
柘黃	yellow dye made from the bark of the 柘[zhe4] tree
柙	cage; pen; scabbard
柚	pomelo (Citrus maxima or C. grandis); shaddock; oriental grapefruit
柚子	pomelo (Citrus maxima or C. grandis); shaddock; oriental grapefruit
柚木	pomelo tree (Citrus maxima or C. grandis); shaddock
柜	Salix multinervis
柝	watchman's rattle
柞	used in 柞水[Zha4 shui3] (the name of a place in Shaanxi)
柞櫟	Mongolian oak (Quercus dentata)
柞水縣	Zhashui, a county in Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
柞蠶絲	tussah silk
柢	foundation; root
柣	threshold
柤	(hawthorn); Chaenomeles japonica
查	to research; to check; to investigate
查克·諾里斯	Chuck Norris (1940-), American martial artist and actor
查克拉	(loanword) chakra
查克瑞	(loanword) chakra
查出	to find out; to discover
查加斯病	Chagas disease; American trypanosomiasis
查勘	to investigate
查哨	to check the sentries
查問	to inquire about
查夜	night patrol; to make nightly rounds
查字法	look-up method for Chinese characters
查實	to verify; to ascertain
查封	to sequester; to seize (assets); to seal up
查對	to scrutinize; to examine; to check
查崗	to check the guard posts
查帳	to audit accounts; to inspect accounting books
查德	Chad (Tw)
查戈斯群島	Chagos Archipelago, coral archipelago in tropical Indian Ocean, with Diego Garcia 迪戈·加西亞島|迪戈·加西亚岛[Di2 ge1 · Jia1 xi1 ya4 Dao3] as largest island
查房	to inspect a room; to do the rounds (medical)
查扣	to seize; to confiscate
查找	to search for; to look up
查抄	to take inventory of and confiscate a criminal's possessions
查拳	Cha Quan - "Cha Fist" - Martial Art
查探	to check; to investigate; to probe (into)
查收	to check for receipt of (an email, an enclosed item in a letter etc) (typically used in the polite imperative, e.g. after 請|请[qing3])
查明	to investigate and find out; to ascertain
查普曼	Chapman (name)
查核	to check
查檢	to check; to consult; to look up
查水表	(Internet slang) (of the police) to ask to be let in on the pretext of checking the water meter
查沒	to confiscate
查清	to find out; to ascertain; to get to the bottom of
查爾斯	Charles
查爾斯·格雷	Charles Grey (1764-1845), prime minister of the United Kingdom 1830-34
查爾斯·狄更斯	Charles Dickens (1812-1870), great English novelist
查爾斯頓	Charleston
查獲	to track down and seize (a criminal suspect, contraband etc)
查理大帝	Charlemagne (c. 747-c. 814), King of the Franks, Holy Roman Emperor from 800
查理週刊	Charlie Hebdo (French magazine)
查看	to look over; to examine; to check up
查票員	ticket inspector
查禁	to prohibit; to ban; to suppress
查究	to follow up a study; to investigate
查緝	to search for and seize (criminals, smuggled goods etc)
查考	to examine; to investigate; to try to determine
查處	to investigate and handle (a criminal case)
查訪	to investigate
查詢	to check; to inquire; to consult (a document etc)
查調	to obtain (information) from a database etc
查證	to check; to verify
查辦	to investigate and handle (a criminal case)
查重	to check for duplication in a text or dataset (esp. in plagiarism detection)
查鋪	to conduct a bed check
查閱	to consult; to refer to; to look sth up in a reference source
查韋斯	Chavez, Spanish name
查驗	inspection; to examine
查點	to check; to tally; to inventory
柦	a kind of wooden desk without legs
柩	bier
柬	abbr. for 柬埔寨[Jian3 pu3 zhai4], Cambodia
柬吳哥王朝	Ankor Dynasty of Cambodia, 802-1431
柬埔寨	Cambodia
柮	wood scraps
柯	(literary) branch; stem; stalk; (literary) ax handle
柯P	Professor Ko, nickname for Ko Wen-je 柯文哲[Ke1 Wen2 zhe2]
柯劭忞	Ke Shaomin (1850-1933), scholar, author of New History of the Yuan Dynasty 新元史[Xin1 Yuan2 shi3]
柯南·道爾	Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (1859-1930), author of the Sherlock Holmes stories 歇洛克·福爾摩斯|歇洛克·福尔摩斯
柯坪縣	Kalpin, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
柯城區	Kecheng, a district of Quzhou City 衢州市[Qu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
柯基	(loanword) corgi
柯夫塔	kofta
柯密	Kermit (communications protocol)
柯尼斯堡	Königsberg, Baltic port city, capital of East Prussia (until WWII)
柯式印刷	offset printing
柯文哲	Ko Wen-je (1959-), Taiwanese independent politician, Mayor of Taipei City from 2014
柯林	Colin (name)
柯林斯	Collins (name)
柯林頓	(Tw) Clinton (name)
柯棣華	Dwarkanath Kotnis (1910-1942), one of five Indian doctors sent to China to provide medical assistance during the Second Sino-Japanese War
柯橋區	Keqiao, a district of Shaoxing City 紹興市|绍兴市[Shao4 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
柯沙奇病毒	Coxsackievirus
柯爾克孜	Kyrgyz ethnic group
柯爾克孜族	Kyrgyz ethnic group
柯爾克孜語	Kyrghiz language
柯薩奇病毒	Coxsachie A intestinal virus
柯西	Augustin-Louis Cauchy (1789-1857), French mathematician
柯達	Kodak (brand, US film company)
柯那克里	Conakry, capital of Guinea (Tw)
柯里化	(computing) currying
柰	Chinese pearleaf crabapple (Malus asiatica)
柰子	Chinese pearleaf crabapple (Malus asiatica)
柱	pillar
柱型圖	bar graph; bar diagram
柱塞	plunger; (automotive) piston
柱子	pillar
柱梁	pillar
柱狀圖	bar chart
柱石	pillar
柱身	column shaft (architecture)
柱頭	(architecture) capital; column head; (botany) stigma
柱體	cylinder; prism (math.)
柲	weapon handle of bamboo strips
柳	surname Liu
柳丁	orange (fruit) (Tw)
柳丁氨醇	albuterol (also known as proventil, salbutamol, ventolin), an asthma drug
柳公權	Liu Gongquan (778-865), Tang calligrapher
柳北區	Liubei, a district of Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
柳南區	Liunan, a district of Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
柳啼花怨	desolate
柳城縣	Liucheng, a county in Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
柳子戲	Shandong opera
柳宗元	Liu Zongyuan (773-819), Tang essayist and poet, advocate of the classical writing 古文運動|古文运动 and neoclassical 復古|复古 movements
柳州市	Liuzhou, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
柳暗花明	lit. the willow trees make the shade, the flowers give the light (idiom); at one's darkest hour, a glimmer of hope
柳杉	Japanese cedar (Cryptomeria japonica)
柳杞	willow
柳松菇	poplar mushroom (Cyclocybe aegerita)
柳林縣	Liulin, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
柳條	willow twig; osier; wicker
柳條湖事件	the Mukden or Manchurian Railway Incident of 18th September 1931 used by the Japanese as a pretext to annex Manchuria
柳條邊	Willow palisade across Liaoning, 17th century barrier
柳樹	willow
柳橙	orange (fruit)
柳橙汁	orange juice
柳毅傳	story of Liu Yi, Tang fantasy fiction by Li Chaowei 李朝威, popular with dramatist of subsequent dynasties
柳永	Liu Yong (987-1053), Song poet
柳江區	Liujiang, a district of Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
柳河縣	Liuhe, a county in Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
柳煙花霧	lit. willow scent and mist of blossom (idiom); scene full of the delights of spring
柳營	Liouying, a district in Tainan 台南|台南[Tai2 nan2], Taiwan
柳琴	liuqin lute, smaller version of the pipa 琵琶, with holes in the soundbox, and range similar to that of a violin
柳眉	long, shapely eyebrows
柳絮	willow catkin
柳綠花紅	(lit.) green willows and red flowers (idiom)
柳葉刀	lancet (surgeon's knife)
柳陌花衢	brothel
柳雷鳥	(bird species of China) willow ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus)
柳青	Liu Qing (1916-1978), writer
柳體	calligraphic style of Liu Gongquan
柳鶯	(ornithology) leaf warbler (bird of genus Phylloscopus)
柴	firewood; lean (of meat); thin (of a person)
柴可夫斯基	Tchaikovsky (1840-1893), Russian composer
柴桑區	Chaisang, a district of Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
柴油	diesel fuel
柴油機	diesel engine
柴油發動機	diesel engine
柴火	plant material used as fuel (firewood, straw, leaves etc)
柴犬	shiba inu (Japanese dog breed)
柴田	Shibata (Japanese surname and place name)
柴禾	plant material used as fuel (firewood, straw, leaves etc)
柴禾妞	(dialect) country girl; unsophisticated girl
柴科夫斯基	Piotr Ilyich Tchaikowsky (1840-1893), Russian composer, composer of 6 symphonies and the opera Eugene Onegin
柴米油鹽	(lit.) firewood, rice, oil and salt (idiom)
柴米油鹽醬醋茶	(lit.) firewood, rice, oil, salt, soy sauce, vinegar and tea
柴胡	Chinese thorowax (Bupleurum chinense)
柴草	firewood
柴薪	firewood
柴車	simple and crude cart (or chariot)
柴達木	Tsaidam or Qaidam basin (Mongolian: salt marsh), depression northeast of the Plateau of Tibet, located between the Qilian Shan and the Kunlun Shan at the northern margin of the Tibetan Plateau.
柴達木盆地	Tsaidam or Qaidam basin (Mongolian: salt marsh), depression northeast of the Plateau of Tibet, located between the Qilian Shan and the Kunlun Shan at the northern margin of the Tibetan Plateau.
柴門	lit. woodcutter's family; humble background; poor family background
柴門小戶	woodcutter's cottage (idiom); poor person's hovel
柴雞	a variety of free-range chicken, small with furless legs, laying smaller eggs
柴電機車	diesel-electric locomotive
柴魚片	katsuobushi or dried bonito flakes (paper-thin shavings of preserved skipjack tuna)
柵	fence; also pr. [shan1]
柵子	bamboo fence
柵格	grid; lattice; raster
柵條	paling; fence rail
柵極	grid (in vacuum tubes); gate (terminal of a field-effect transistor)
柵欄	fence
柵籬	hedge; fence
柵門	gate; door with grating; turnstile
柶	spoon; ladle
柷	percussion instrument, a tapering wooden box struck on the inside with a wooden stick
柸	to hate; bear grudge
柿	persimmon
柿子	persimmon; (Northeastern dialect) tomato
柿子挑軟的捏	lit. it's the soft persimmons that people choose to squeeze (idiom)
柿子椒	bell pepper, aka sweet pepper
柿餅	dried persimmon
栃	archaic variant of 櫪|枥, oak; type of tree in ancient books
栐	(archaic) a kind of tree whose timber was used to make ceremonial tablets 笏[hu4]
栒	cross bar
栓	bottle stopper; plug; (gun) bolt
栓劑	suppository
栓塞	(medicine) embolism
栓子	(medicine) embolus
栓皮	cork
栓皮櫟	Chinese cork oak (Quercus variabilis)
栔	carve; cut
栗	surname Li
栗啄木鳥	(bird species of China) rufous woodpecker (Micropternus brachyurus)
栗喉蜂虎	(bird species of China) blue-tailed bee-eater (Merops philippinus)
栗喉鵙鶥	(bird species of China) black-eared shrike-babbler (Pteruthius melanotis)
栗子	chestnut
栗斑杜鵑	(bird species of China) banded bay cuckoo (Cacomantis sonneratii)
栗斑腹鵐	(bird species of China) Jankowski's bunting (Emberiza jankowskii)
栗樹鴨	(bird species of China) lesser whistling duck (Dendrocygna javanica)
栗耳短腳鵯	(bird species of China) brown-eared bulbul (Hypsipetes amaurotis)
栗耳鳳鶥	(bird species of China) striated yuhina (Staphida castaniceps)
栗耳鵐	(bird species of China) chestnut-eared bunting (Emberiza fucata)
栗背伯勞	(bird species of China) Burmese shrike (Lanius collurioides)
栗背奇鶥	(bird species of China) rufous-backed sibia (Leioptila annectens)
栗背岩鷚	(bird species of China) maroon-backed accentor (Prunella immaculata)
栗背短翅鶇	(bird species of China) Gould's shortwing (Heteroxenicus stellatus)
栗背短腳鵯	(bird species of China) chestnut bulbul (Hemixos castanonotus)
栗腹文鳥	(bird species of China) tricoloured munia (Lonchura malacca)
栗腹歌鴝	(bird species of China) Indian blue robin (Larvivora brunnea)
栗腹磯鶇	(bird species of China) chestnut-bellied rock thrush (Monticola rufiventris)
栗腹鳾	(bird species of China) chestnut-bellied nuthatch (Sitta cinnamoventris)
栗臀鳾	(bird species of China) chestnut-vented nuthatch (Sitta nagaensis)
栗色	maroon (color)
栗葦鳽	(bird species of China) cinnamon bittern (Ixobrychus cinnamomeus)
栗頭八色鶇	(bird species of China) rusty-naped pitta (Hydrornis oatesi)
栗頭地鶯	(bird species of China) chestnut-headed tesia (Cettia castaneocoronata)
栗頭蜂虎	(bird species of China) chestnut-headed bee-eater (Merops leschenaulti)
栗頭雀鶥	(bird species of China) rufous-winged fulvetta (Schoeniparus castaneceps)
栗頭鶲鶯	(bird species of China) chestnut-crowned warbler (Phylloscopus castaniceps)
栗頰噪鶥	(bird species of China) rufous-cheeked laughingthrush (Garrulax castanotis)
栗頸噪鶥	(bird species of China) rufous-necked laughingthrush (Pterorhinus ruficollis)
栗額鵙鶥	(bird species of China) clicking shrike-babbler (Pteruthius intermedius)
栗鳶	(bird species of China) Brahminy kite (Haliastur indus)
栗鳽	(bird species of China) Japanese night heron (Gorsachius goisagi)
栗鴞	(bird species of China) oriental bay owl (Phodilus badius)
栗鵐	(bird species of China) chestnut bunting (Emberiza rutila)
栗鼠	chinchilla; chipmunk
栘	shadbush or shadberry (genus Amelanchier)
栝	Juniperus chinensis; measuring-frame
栞	to peel with a knife; to carve; to amend
栟	Trachycarpus excelsa
校	(bound form) school; college; (bound form) (military) field officer
校內	Xiaonei (Chinese social network website)
校刊	school magazine
校勘	to collate
校區	campus
校友	schoolmate; alumnus; alumna
校名	school name
校園	campus
校地	(Tw) the land on which a school is built (or is intended to be built)
校場	military drill ground
校外	off campus
校官	military officer
校尉	military officer
校對	proofreader; to proofread; to calibrate
校徽	school badge; college insignia; university crest
校慶	anniversary of the founding of a school
校招	campus recruiting (abbr. for 校園招聘|校园招聘[xiao4 yuan2 zhao1 pin4])
校方	the school (as a party in negotiations, a dispute etc)
校曆	school calendar
校服	school uniform
校樣	proofs (printing)
校歌	school song
校正	to proofread and correct; to edit and rectify; to correct
校準	to calibrate
校監	chancellor (of a university)
校舍	school building
校花	the prettiest girl in the school (see also 校草[xiao4 cao3])
校草	the most handsome boy in the school (see also 校花[xiao4 hua1])
校規	school rules and regulations
校訂	revision
校訓	school motto
校車	school bus
校運會	(school) field day; sports day
校釋	to collate and annotate; (on book titles) collated and annotated
校長	(college, university) president; headmaster
校門	school gate
校閱	to check through (a document); to proofread; to review (troops)
校隊	school team
校際	interschool; intercollegiate
校霸	school bully
校風	the tone of a school; campus atmosphere
校飛	flight inspection; flight calibration
校驗	to check; to examine
校驗碼	check digit
校鬧	disruptive activities targeted at a school by an aggrieved party (neologism formed by analogy with 醫鬧|医闹[yi1 nao4])
栩	used in 栩栩[xu3 xu3]; jolcham oak (Quercus serrata)
栩栩	vivid
栩栩如生	vivid and lifelike (idiom); true to life; realistic
栩栩生輝	resplendent
株	tree trunk; stump (tree root); a plant
株守	to stick to sth stubbornly; never let go
株式會社	Japanese limited company; corporation; public company
株治	to involve others (in a law case)
株洲市	Zhuzhou, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
株距	spacing; distance between plants (within a row)
株連	to involve others (in a crime); guilt by association
栫	fence; palisade
栭	tree mushroom
栱	post
栲	chinquapin (Castanopsis fargesii and other spp.), genus of evergreen trees
栲屬	Castanopsis, genus of evergreen trees
栲栳	round-bottomed wicker basket
栲膠	tannin
栳	used in 栲栳[kao3 lao3]
栴	used in 栴檀[zhan1 tan2]
栴檀	sandalwood
栵	hedge
核	pit; stone; nucleus
核不擴散	nuclear nonproliferation
核事件	nuclear incident
核仁	nucleolus (within nucleus of cell)
核僵持	nuclear equipoise; nuclear stalemate
核兒	pit (stone of a fruit)
核冬天	nuclear winter
核准	to authorize; to investigate then ratify
核出口控制	nuclear export control
核分裂	nuclear fission
核動力	nuclear power
核動力航空母艦	nuclear-powered aircraft carrier
核勢	nuclear potential
核原料	nuclear material
核反應	nuclear reaction
核反應堆	nuclear reactor
核反擊	nuclear counter strike
核可	(Tw) to review and approve
核合成	nucleosynthesis
核問題	the nuclear problem
核四	Fourth Nuclear Power Plant near New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
核國家	nuclear nations
核地雷	nuclear land mine; nuclear mine
核均勢	nuclear parity
核型	karyotype (genetics)
核大國	a nuclear power (country)
核威懾	nuclear deterrence
核威懾力量	nuclear deterrent
核威懾政策	policy of nuclear intimidation
核子	nuclear; nucleus
核子醫學	(Tw) nuclear medicine
核定	to audit and determine; to check and ratify; to appraise and decide
核實	to verify; to check
核對	to check; to verify; to audit
核對峙	nuclear stalemate
核導彈	nuclear missile
核小體	nucleosome
核屏蔽	nuclear shielding
核工業	nuclear industry
核工程	nuclear engineering
核平	(slang) to nuke (a city, country etc)
核廢物	nuclear waste
核彈	nuclear bomb
核彈頭	nuclear reentry vehicle; nuclear warhead
核心	core; nucleus
核戰	nuclear warfare
核戰鬥部	nuclear warhead
核技術	nuclear technology
核推進	nuclear propulsion
核擴散	nuclear proliferation
核查	to examine; to inspect
核柱	nuclear column
核桃	walnut
核桃仁	walnut kernel
核模型	nuclear model
核武	nuclear weapon
核武器	nuclear weapon
核武庫	nuclear arsenal
核潛艇	nuclear submarine
核熱	nuclear heat
核燃料	nuclear fuel
核燃料後處理	nuclear fuel reprocessing
核爆	nuclear explosion
核爆炸	nuclear explosion
核物理	nuclear physics
核球	core; pellet; central bulge
核當量	nuclear yield
核發電	nuclear power generation
核發電廠	nuclear power plant
核相互作用	nuclear interaction
核磁共振	nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)
核種	(Tw) (physics) nuclide
核算	to calculate; accounting
核糖	ribose
核糖核酸	ribonucleic acid (RNA)
核糖體	ribosome
核素	(physics) nuclide
核結構	nuclear structure
核聚變	nuclear fusion
核能	nuclear energy
核能源	nuclear power
核自旋	nuclear spin
核苷	nucleoside
核苷酸	nucleotide
核裁軍	nuclear disarmament
核裂變	atomic fission; nuclear fission; fission
核裝置	nuclear device
核設施	nuclear facility; nuclear installation
核試	nuclear test
核試爆	nuclear test
核試驗	nuclear test
核試驗堆	nuclear test reactor
核試驗場	nuclear test site
核談判	nuclear negotiations
核變形	nuclear deformation
核軍備	nuclear arms
核載	rated carrying capacity
核輻射	nuclear radiation
核轉變	nuclear transformation; nuclear transmutation
核轟炸	nuclear bomb
核轟炸機	nuclear bomber (aircraft)
核連鎖反應	nuclear chain reaction
核酮糖	ribulose (type of sugar)
核酸	nucleic acid
核醫學	nuclear medicine
核銷	to audit and write off
核門檻	nuclear threshold
核防御	nuclear defense
核電	nuclear power
核電廠	nuclear power plant
核電磁脈衝	nuclear electro-magnetic pulse
核電站	nuclear power plant
核電荷數	electric charge on nucleus; atomic number
核顯	(computing) integrated GPU (GPU built into a CPU)
核駁	to reject (a patent application etc)
核驗	to verify
核鹼基	nucleobase
核黃素	riboflavin (vitamin B2)
根	root; basis
根基	foundation
根底	foundation; grounding; background
根式	(math.) a radical; a radical expression
根性	one's true nature (Buddhism)
根插	to plant roots; to propagate from root cuttings
根據	according to; based on; basis
根據地	base of operations
根本	fundamental; basic; root
根本法	fundamental law; body of basic laws
根柢	root; foundation
根汁汽水	root beer
根河市	Genhe, a county-level city in Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
根治	to bring under permanent control; to effect a radical cure
根深葉茂	deep roots and vigorous foliage (idiom)
根深蒂固	deep-rooted (problem etc)
根源	origin; root (cause)
根特	Ghent, city in Belgium
根狀莖	rhizome (biol.); root stock
根由	the whys and the wherefores; the detailed story; root cause
根瘤	(botany) root nodule
根瘤菌	rhizobia
根瘤菌屬	genus Rhizobium
根目錄	(computing) root directory
根究	to investigate (sth) thoroughly; to get to the bottom of
根管治療	root canal therapy (dentistry)
根系	root system
根絕	to eradicate
根茬	stubble
根莖	(botany) rhizome
根號	radical sign √ (math.)
根西島	Guernsey (Channel Islands)
根除	to eradicate
根音	root of chord
根鬚	roots
栻	(tree)
格	used in 格登[ge1 deng1]; used in 格格[ge1 ge1]
格但斯克	Gdansk, city on Baltic in north Poland
格位	case (linguistics)
格列高利曆	Gregorian calendar
格力	Gree (brand)
格勒	(onom.) laughing sound; glug-glug haha!
格勒諾布爾	Grenoble (French town)
格外	especially; particularly; even more than usual; extra; additional
格子	lattice; check (pattern of squares)
格子呢	checked woolen fabric; plaid
格子棉布	gingham
格子花呢	tartan; plaid
格子間	cubicle
格局	structure; pattern; layout
格式	form; specification; format
格式化	(computing) to format
格式塔	(loanword) gestalt
格式塔療法	Gestalt therapy; holistic therapy
格律	forms of versification
格恩西島	Guernsey (Channel Islands)
格拉	Gera (city in Germany)
格拉斯哥	Glasgow, Scotland
格拉漢姆	Graham or Graeme (name)
格拉納達	Granada, Spain
格拉茨	Graz (city in Austria)
格擋	to parry; to fend off; to block (a blow)
格林	Green or Greene (name)
格林多	Corinthians
格林奈爾大學	Grinnell College (private liberal arts college in Grinnell, Iowa, USA)
格林威治	Greenwich
格林威治村	Greenwich
格林威治標準時間	(Tw) Greenwich Mean Time (GMT)
格林尼治	Greenwich (former location of Greenwich observatory, at zero longitude)
格林尼治本初子午線	the Greenwich meridian
格林尼治標準時間	Greenwich Mean Time (GMT)
格林斯班	Alan Greenspan (1926-), US economist
格林童話	Grimm's Fairy Tales
格林納達	Grenada
格柵	grille
格格	princess (loanword from Manchu, used in the Qing Dynasty)
格格不入	(idiom) inharmonious; incompatible
格格笑	giggle
格機	(coll.) to factory-reset a phone (or other device)
格殺勿論	(idiom) to kill on sight (without fear of prosecution)
格洛斯特	Gloucester city in southwest England
格洛斯特郡	Gloucestershire county in southwest England
格洛納斯	GLONASS (Globalnaya Navigatsionaya Satelitnaya Sistema or Global Navigation Satellite System), the Russian equivalent of GPS
格涅沙	Ganesha (the elephant-headed God in Hinduism, son of Shiva and Parvati)
格爾木市	Golmud, a county-level city in Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
格物	to study the underlying principles, esp. in neo-Confucian rational learning 理學|理学[li3 xue2]
格物致知	to study the underlying principle to acquire knowledge (idiom); pursuing knowledge to the end
格瑞那達	Grenada, island country in the Caribbean Sea (Tw)
格瓦斯	(loanword) kvass
格篩	grizzly (mining)
格網	(math.) lattice
格羅寧根	Groningen, province and city in the Netherlands
格羅茲尼	Grozny, capital of Chechen Republic, Russia
格致	to study the underlying principle to acquire knowledge (abbr. for 格物致知[ge2 wu4 zhi4 zhi1])
格萊美獎	Grammy Award (US music industry award)
格薩爾	King Gesar, hero of a Tibetan and Mongolian epic cycle
格蘭氏陰性	Gram negative (of bacteria); also written 革蘭氏陰性|革兰氏阴性
格蘭特	Grant (name)
格蘭芬多	Gryffindor (Harry Potter)
格言	maxim
格調	style (of art or literature); form; one's work style
格里姆斯塔	Grimstad (city in Agder, Norway)
格里高利	Gregory or Grigory (name)
格陵蘭	Greenland
格陵蘭島	Greenland
格雷	Grey; Gray
格雷伯爵茶	Earl Grey tea
格雷氏解剖學	Gray's Anatomy (medical reference book)
格鬥	to wrestle
格魯吉亞	Georgia (country)
格魯吉亞人	Georgian (person)
格魯派	Gelugpa school of Tibetan Buddhism
栽	to plant; to grow; to insert; to erect (e.g. a bus stop sign)
栽倒	to take a fall
栽培	to grow; to cultivate; to train
栽子	seedling; young plant
栽植	to plant; to transplant
栽種	to plant; to grow
栽種機	a mechanical planter (for rice, plants)
栽筋斗	to tumble; to fall head over heels; (fig.) to take a tumble
栽贓	to frame sb (by planting sth on them)
栽跟頭	to fall head over heels; (fig.) to come a cropper
桀	(emperor of Xia dynasty); cruel
桀王	King Jie, the final ruler of the Xia dynasty (until c. 1600 BC), a notoriously cruel and immoral tyrant
桀貪驁詐	brutal, greedy, arrogant and deceitful (idiom)
桀驁不馴	arrogant and obstinate (idiom); unyielding
桁	pole plate; purlin (cross-beam in roof); ridge-pole
桁架	truss (weight-bearing construction of cross-beams)
桁梁	brace girder
桁楊	lit. stocks and knives; fig. any punishment equipment
桁楊刀鋸	lit. stocks and knives; fig. any punishment equipment
桂	cassia; laurel
桂冠	laurel (as a symbol of victory or merit)
桂平市	Guiping, a county-level city in Guigang City 貴港市|贵港市[Gui4 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
桂木屬	genus Artocarpus
桂東縣	Guidong, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
桂林市	Guilin, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
桂林醫學院	Guilin Medical University
桂枝	cinnamon (Ramulus Cinnamomi)
桂格	Quaker (company)
桂皮	Chinese cinnamon (Cinnamonum cassia); cassia bark
桂系軍閥	Guangxi warlord faction, from 1911-1930
桂綸鎂	Guey Lun-mei (1983-), Taiwanese actress
桂花	osmanthus flowers; Osmanthus fragrans
桂陽縣	Guiyang, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
桂魚	mandarin fish
桃	peach
桃仁	peach kernel, used in Chinese medicine
桃園	Taoyuan city and county in Taiwan
桃園三結義	Oath of the Peach Garden, sworn by Liu Bei 劉備|刘备[Liu2 Bei4], Zhang Fei 張飛|张飞[Zhang1 Fei1] and Guan Yu 關羽|关羽[Guan1 Yu3] at the start of the Romance of Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4]
桃園市	Taoyuan city in north Taiwan, capital of Taoyuan county
桃園結義	to make a pact of brotherhood (from “Romance of the Three Kingdoms” 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4]) (idiom)
桃城區	Taocheng, a district of Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
桃太郎	Momotaro or Peach Boy, the hero of a Japanese folk tale
桃子	peach
桃山區	Taoshan, a district of Qitaihe City 七臺河市|七台河市[Qi1 tai2 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
桃心	heart symbol ♥
桃李	(literary) one's students
桃樹	peach tree
桃汛	spring flood (at peach-blossom time)
桃江縣	Taojiang, a county in Yiyang City 益陽市|益阳市[Yi4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
桃源縣	Taoyuan, a county in Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
桃紅	pink
桃腮粉臉	rosy-cheeked (idiom)
桃色	pink; peach color; illicit love
桃色新聞	sex scandal
桃色案件	case involving sex scandal (law)
桃花	peach blossom; (fig.) love affair
桃花心木	mahogany
桃花扇	The Peach Blossom Fan, historical play about the last days of the Ming dynasty by Kong Shangren 孔尚任[Kong3 Shang4 ren4]
桃花水母	freshwater jellyfish (Craspedacusta)
桃花汛	spring flood (at peach-blossom time)
桃花源	the Peach Blossom Spring, a hidden land of peace and prosperity
桃花運	luck with the ladies; a romance; good luck
桃莉羊	(Tw) Dolly (1996-2003), female sheep, first mammal to be cloned from an adult somatic cell
桃金娘	rose myrtle (Rhodomyrtus tomentosa)
桃金娘科	Myrtaceae (family including myrtle, rosemary, oregano etc)
桄	woven wood and bamboo utensil; classifier for threads and strings
桄榔	arenga or sugar palm (Arenga pinnata)
桅	mast
桅杆	mast
框	frame (e.g. door frame); casing; fig. framework
框圖	flowchart; block diagram
框子	frame (of spectacles, small ornament etc)
框架	(construction) frame; (fig.) framework
框框	a frame; a circle; set pattern; convention; restriction
案	(legal) case; incident; record
案件	case; instance
案例	case (of fraud, hepatitis, international cooperation etc); instance; example
案例法	case law
案兵束甲	to rest weapons and loosen armor (idiom); to relax from fighting
案卷	records; files; archives
案子	long table; counter
案底	criminal record
案情	details of a legal case; facts and circumstances of a case (as established in investigation)
案文	text
案板	kneading or chopping board
案牘	official documents or correspondence
案由	main points of a case; brief; summary
案甲休兵	to put down weapon and let soldiers rest (idiom); to relax from fighting
案發	(of a crime) to occur; (old) (of a crime) to be discovered
案發現場	crime scene
案秤	counter scale; bench scale
案稱	counter scale
案頭	on one's desk
案首	candidate who ranked 1st in imperial examination on prefecture or county level (in Ming and Qing dynasties)
案驗	(old) to investigate the evidence of a case
桉	Eucalyptus globulus; Taiwan pr. [an4]
桉樹	eucalyptus
桉葉油	eucalyptus oil
桋	(tree)
桌	table; desk; classifier for tables of guests at a banquet etc
桌上型	desktop
桌上型電腦	desktop computer
桌子	table; desk
桌巾	tablecloth
桌布	tablecloth
桌案	table
桌椅板凳	chairs and tables; household furniture
桌機	desktop computer
桌燈	desk lamp
桌球	table tennis; table tennis ball (Tw); billiards
桌遊	board game
桌面	desktop; tabletop
桌面兒上	on the table; fig. everything open and above board
桎	fetters
桎梏	(literary) shackles
桐	tree name (variously Paulownia, Firmiana or Aleurites)
桐人	puppet burial object; wooden effigy buried to put a curse on sb
桐城市	Tongcheng, a county-level city in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
桐廬縣	Tonglu, a county in Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
桐木偶	puppet burial object; wooden effigy buried to put a curse on sb
桐柏山	Tongbai mountain range, the watershed between Huai 淮河 and Han 漢江|汉江 rivers
桐柏縣	Tongbai, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
桐梓縣	Tongzi, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
桐油	tung oil, from the Japanese wood-oil tree Aleurites cordata, used in making lacquer
桐鄉市	Tongxiang, a county-level city in Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
桑	(bound form) mulberry tree
桑內斯	Sandnes (city in Rogaland, Norway)
桑地諾民族解放陣線	Sandinista National Liberation Front
桑坦德	Santander, capital of Spanish autonomous region Cantabria 坎塔布里亞|坎塔布里亚[Kan3 ta3 bu4 li3 ya4]
桑塔納	Santana (name)
桑嬌維塞	Sangiovese (grape type)
桑巴	samba (dance) (loanword)
桑帕約	Sampaio (name)
桑德拉	Sandra (name)
桑德斯	(surname) Sanders
桑德爾福德	Sandefjord (city in Vestfold, Norway)
桑托里尼島	Santorini (volcanic island in the Aegean sea)
桑拿	(loanword) sauna
桑搏	(sports) (loanword) sambo
桑日縣	Sangri, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
桑果	mulberry fruit (Fructus mori)
桑梓	(literary) one's native place
桑植縣	Sangzhi, a county in Zhangjiajie City 張家界市|张家界市[Zhang1 jia1 jie4 Shi4], Hunan
桑樹	mulberry tree
桑海	Songhay people of Mali and the Sahara
桑珠孜區	Samzhubzê, a district of Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
桑科	Moraceae (type of flowering plant)
桑給巴爾	Zanzibar
桑耶	Samye town and monastery in central Tibet
桑葚	mulberry fruit (Fructus mori)
桑藨	mulberry fruit (Fructus mori)
桑蠶	silkworm
桑蠶絲	silk (specifically, mulberry silk)
桑那	sauna (loanword)
桑間濮上	Sangjian by the Pu River, a place in the ancient state of Wei known for wanton behavior
桓	Chinese soapberry (Sapindus mukurossi); big; pillar (old)
桓仁滿族自治縣	Huanren Manchu Autonomous County, in Benxi City 本溪市[Ben3 xi1 Shi4], Liaoning
桓台縣	Huantai, a county in Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
桓桓	mighty; powerful
桓玄	Huan Xuan (369-404), general involved in the break-up of Eastern Jin
桔	used in 桔梗[jie2 geng3]; used in 桔槔[jie2 gao1]
桔梗	Chinese bellflower; balloon flower (Platycodon grandiflorus)
桔槔	well sweep (device for raising and lowering a bucket in a well, using a pivoted pole)
桕	Tallow tree; Sapium sebiferum
桫	horse chestnut; Stewartia pseudocamellia (botany)
桫欏	spinulose tree fern; Cyathea spinulosa (botany)
桭	eaves; space between two pillars
桯	bed side stand
桲	used in 榲桲|榅桲[wen1 po5]; Taiwan pr. [bo2]
桴	beam; rafter
桴鼓相應	lit. the hammer fits the drum (idiom); appropriate relation between the different parts
桶	bucket; (trash) can; barrel (of oil etc)
桶口	bunghole
桶孔	bunghole
桶裝水	18.9 liter bottled water (5 gallons)
桷	rafter; malus toringo
桹	(palm)
桿	stick; pole; lever
桿子	pole; stick; club
桿弟	caddie (golf)
桿秤	a steelyard (a type of balance)
桿菌	bacillus (any rod-shaped bacteria)
梁	Liang Dynasty (502–557); Later Liang Dynasty (907–923); surname Liang
梁上君子	lit. the gentleman on the roof beam; fig. a thief
梁唐晉漢周書	another name for History of the Five Dynasties between Tang and Song 舊五代史|旧五代史[Jiu4 Wu3 dai4 shi3]
梁啟超	Liang Qichao (1873-1929), influential journalist and a leader of the failed reform movement of 1898
梁園區	Liangyuan, a district of Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
梁子湖區	Liangzihu, a district of Ezhou City 鄂州市[E4 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
梁山伯與祝英台	The Butterfly Lovers, Chinese folktale of the tragic love between Liang Shanbo and Zhu Yingtai
梁山好漢	the heroes of Liangshan Marsh (in the novel "Water Margin" 水滸傳|水浒传[Shui3 hu3 Zhuan4])
梁山市	Liangshan city in Shandong
梁山縣	Liangshan, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
梁平區	Liangping, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
梁振英	Leung Chun-ying (1954-), 3rd Chief Executive of Hong Kong
梁書	History of Liang of the Southern Dynasties, eighth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled by Yao Silian 姚思廉[Yao2 Si1 lian2] in 636 during Tang dynasty, 56 scrolls
梁朝	Liang Dynasty (502-557)
梁木	beam; rafter; lintel
梁架	roof beam; rafters
梁河縣	Lianghe, a county in Dehong Dai and Jingpo Autonomous Prefecture 德宏傣族景頗族自治州|德宏傣族景颇族自治州[De2 hong2 Dai3 zu2 Jing3 po1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
梁湘	Liang Xiang (1919-1989), first governor of Hainan
梁溪區	Liangxi, a district of Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
梁漱溟	Liang Shuming (1893-1988), modern philosopher and teacher in the neo-Confucian tradition
梁祝	The Butterfly Lovers, a Chinese folktale (abbr. for 梁山伯與祝英台|梁山伯与祝英台[Liang2 Shan1 bo2 yu3 Zhu4 Ying1 tai2])
梁贊	Ryazan, Russian city about 200 km southeast of Moscow
梁辰魚	Liang Chenyu (1521-1594), Ming dramatist of the Kunshan opera school
梁靜茹	Fish Leong (1978–), Malaysian pop singer
梁龍	diplodocus
梃	a club (weapon)
梅	plum; plum flower; Japanese apricot (Prunus mume)
梅乾菜	salt-pickled sun-dried cabbage (or potherb mustard etc)
梅子	plum
梅州市	Meizhou, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
梅德韋傑夫	Medvedyev (name)
梅斯	Metz (city in France)
梅斯梅爾	Mesmer (name)
梅林	Merlin
梅核氣	(TCM) plum-pit qi, a feeling of a lump in the throat (globus pharyngis) or of stagnant phlegm
梅森	Martin Mersenne (1588-1648, French mathematician)
梅森素數	Mersenne prime number (math.)
梅毒	syphilis
梅氏	Charles Messier (1730-1817), French astronomer who catalogued nebulas and galaxies
梅氏腺	Mehlis gland
梅江區	Meijiang, a district of Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
梅河口市	Meihekou, a county-level city in Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
梅洛	Melo (city in Uruguay); Merlot (grape type)
梅派	the Mei Lanfang School
梅瑟	Moses (Catholic translation); also 摩西 (Protestant translation)
梅紅	pinkish-red (color)
梅納德	Maynard (name)
梅縣區	Meixian, a district of Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
梅花	plum blossom; clubs ♣ (a suit in card games); (dialect) wintersweet
梅花拳	Meihua Quan - "Plum Blossom Fist" (Chinese Martial Art)
梅花鹿	sika deer
梅薩林	muslin or mousseline silk fabric
梅蘭芳	Mei Lanfang (1894-1961), famous master of Beijing opera, specialist in female roles
梅西	Lionel Messi (1987-), Argentine footballer
梅西耶	Charles Messier (1730-1817), French astronomer who catalogued nebulas and galaxies
梅西耶星表	Messier catalog of nebulae and clusters (1784)
梅西葉	Charles Messier (1730-1817), French astronomer who catalogued nebulas and galaxies
梅西葉星表	Messier catalog of nebulae and clusters (1784)
梅里亞姆·韋伯斯特	Merriam-Webster (dictionary)
梅里斯區	Meilisi Daur district of Qiqihar city 齊齊哈爾|齐齐哈尔[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3], Heilongjiang
梅里斯達斡爾族區	Meilisi Daur District, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
梅里美	Prosper Mérimée (1803-1870), French scholar and writer, author of novel Carmen on which Bizet based his opera
梅里雪山	Meili Snow Mountains, with peaks up to 6000 m., in Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
梅雨	East Asian rainy season (in late spring and early summer)
梆	watchman's rattle
梆子	watchman's clapper; wooden clappers with bars of unequal length
梆子腔	a general term for local operas in Shanxi, Shaanxi, Henan, Hebei, Shandong etc
梊	squeeze out of; extract
梍	Chinese honey locust (Gleditsia sinensis); now written zào jiá 皂莢|皂荚
梏	braces (med.); fetters; manacles
梐	stockade
梓	Chinese catalpa (Catalpa ovata), a tree that serves as a symbol of one's hometown and whose wood is used to make various items
梓潼縣	Zitong, a county in Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
梓童	(often used in traditional novels) term used by an emperor to address the empress
梔	gardenia; cape jasmine (Gardenia jasminoides); same as 梔子|栀子[zhi1 zi5]
梔子	cape jasmine (Gardenia jasminoides)
梔子花	cape jasmine (Gardenia jasminoides)
梗	branch; stem; stalk
梗圖	(Tw) image macro; visual meme
梗塞	to clog; to block; to obstruct
梗概	broad outline; gist; summary
梗死	(medicine) to have an infarction
梗王	(coll.) person who makes people laugh; funny guy
梗阻	to obstruct; to hamper; (medicine) obstruction
梘	bamboo conduit; wooden peg; spout
梜	(old) chopsticks; Taiwan pr. [jia2]
梜提	(old) chopsticks
條	strip; item; article
條件	condition; circumstance; term; factor
條件反射	conditioned reflex
條件反應	conditioned response
條件句	conditional clause
條件式	conditional
條件概率	conditional probability
條例	regulations; rules; code of conduct; ordinances; statutes
條凳	bench
條分縷析	to analyze thoroughly, point by point (idiom)
條子	short note; slip of paper; stripe
條幅	wall scroll (for painting or calligraphy); banner
條幅廣告	banner advertisement
條幾	long narrow table
條形	a bar; a strip
條形圖	bar chart
條形碼	barcode
條播	to drill (i.e. plant seeds in spaced rows)
條文	clause; explanatory section in a document
條暢	orderly and logical (of writing); luxuriant; flourishing
條板箱	crate
條案	long narrow table
條條大路通羅馬	all roads lead to Rome
條條框框	fixed framework (idiom); restriction of social conventions and taboos (usually derogatory)
條款	clause (of contract or law)
條理	arrangement; order; tidiness
條痕	weal (e.g. from whipping); streak
條目	clauses and sub-clauses (in formal document)
條碼	barcode
條約	treaty; pact
條紋	stripe
條紋噪鶥	(bird species of China) striated laughingthrush (Grammatoptila striata)
條規	rule
條貫	(literary) systematic arrangement; coherent presentation
條陳	to lay out (an argument) item by item; memorandum to a superior
梟	owl; valiant; trafficker
梟雄	ambitious and ruthless character; formidable person
梟首	to behead
梟首示眾	to behead sb and display the head in public
梠	beam at the eaves
梡	(tree); stand for sacrifice
梢	tip of branch
梣	Chinese ash (Fraxinus chinensis)
梣樹	Chinese ash (Fraxinus chinensis)
梧	Sterculia platanifolia
梧州市	Wuzhou, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
梧桐	wutong (Firmiana platanifolia); Chinese parasol tree
梧桐科	Sterculiaceae, family of Malvale trees incl. Cacao, Cola and Firmiana
梨	pear
梨俱吠陀	Rigveda, Indian religious poem
梨園	the world of Chinese opera
梨園子弟	Chinese opera performers
梨子	pear
梨屬	Pyrus, tree genus containing pears
梨果	pome
梨樹	pear tree
梨樹區	Lishu, a district of Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
梨樹縣	Lishu, a county in Siping City 四平市[Si4 ping2 Shi4], Jilin
梨渦	dimples (of a woman)
梨花帶雨	lit. like raindrops on a pear blossom (idiom)
梩	basket for removing earth; spade
梭	(textiles) shuttle
梭哈	five-card stud (card game) (from English "show hand")
梭子	(textiles) shuttle; cartridge clip
梭子魚	barracuda
梭梭	saxaul; sacsaoul (Haloxylon ammodendron)
梭鏢	spear
梭魚	barracuda
梯	(bound form) ladder; stairs
梯也爾	Adolphe Thiers
梯子	ladder; stepladder
梯度	gradient
梯度回波	gradient echo
梯式配股	laddering (of stock sales)
梯形	trapezoid; ladder-shaped; terraced
梯恩梯	TNT (trinitrotoluene) (loanword)
梯恩梯當量	TNT equivalent
梯板	gangplank; gangway
梯次	echelon; tier; batch (in a sequence)
梯次隊形	echelon formation (military)
梯氏鶇	(bird species of China) Tickell's thrush (Turdus unicolor)
梯田	stepped fields; terracing
梯級	stair; rung of a ladder
梯隊	echelon (military formation)
械	appliance; tool; weapon
械繫	to arrest and shackle; to clap in irons
械鬥	armed confrontation; bust-up between gangs
梱	movable door sill
梲	club (weapon); small pillar
梳	to comb; (bound form) a comb
梳乎厘	(HK) (loanword) soufflé
梳化	(film and TV) hair and makeup
梳妝	to dress and groom oneself
梳妝室	boudoir; lady's dressing room
梳妝檯	dressing table
梳子	comb
梳弄	(old) to deflorate a prostitute
梳洗	to wash and groom oneself; to freshen up
梳理	to comb; fig. to sort out
梳篦	combs (in general); (archaic) to comb one's hair
梳芙厘	soufflé (loanword)
梳頭	to comb one's hair; to comb sb's hair
梴	length (of a tree or beam); long
梵	abbr. for 梵教[Fan4 jiao4] Brahmanism
梵克雅寶	Van Cleef & Arpels (French luxury jewelry company)
梵冊貝葉	Sanskrit on Talipot palm leaves (idiom); Buddhist scripture
梵剎	Buddhist temple; monastery
梵唄	(Buddhism) chanting of prayers
梵啞鈴	violin (loanword)
梵天	Nirvana (in Buddhist scripture); Lord Brahma (the Hindu Creator)
梵婀玲	(loanword) (archaic) violin
梵教	Brahmanism
梵文	Sanskrit
梵書	Brahmana, ancient Hindu texts
梵漢對音	Sanskrit-Chinese transliteration
梵蒂岡	the Vatican
梵蒂岡城	Vatican City, capital of Holy See
梵語	Sanskrit (language)
梵谷	(Tw) Vincent van Gogh (1853–1890), Dutch post-Impressionist painter
梵高	Vincent van Gogh (1853–1890), Dutch post-Impressionist painter
棁	(wooden) stick; roof beam
棄	to abandon; to relinquish; to discard
棄世	to leave this world; to die
棄之如敝屣	to toss away like a pair of worn-out shoes (idiom)
棄保潛逃	to jump bail
棄劇	to quit watching a TV series
棄取	(literary) to choose between rejecting and accepting
棄嬰	abandoned baby; to abandon an infant
棄子	sacrificed piece (in chess or Go); abandoned child
棄守	to give up defending; to yield; to surrender
棄市	public execution (old)
棄惡從善	to renounce evil and turn to virtue (idiom)
棄捨	to abandon; to give up
棄暗投明	to renounce the dark and seek the light
棄核	to renounce nuclear weapons
棄權	to waive a right; to abstain (from voting)
棄用	to stop using; to abandon; abandoned
棄約背盟	to abrogate an agreement; to break one's oath (idiom)
棄絕	to abandon; to forsake
棄置	to throw away; to discard
棄舊圖新	to turn over a new leaf
棄船	to abandon ship
棄若敝屣	to throw away like worn out shoes
棄農經商	to abandon farming and become a businessman (idiom)
棄邪歸正	to give up evil and return to virtue
棄養	to abandon (a child, elderly family member, pet etc)
棉	generic term for cotton or kapok; cotton
棉布	cotton cloth
棉帽	cotton-padded hat
棉條	(textiles) sliver
棉棒	cotton swab; cotton bud
棉毛	knitted cotton
棉球	cotton ball; swab; tampon
棉田	cotton field
棉籤	cotton swab
棉紗	cotton yarn
棉絮	cotton wadding
棉線	cotton thread; yarn cotton
棉花	cotton
棉花棒	cotton swab; cotton bud
棉花糖	cotton candy; candyfloss; marshmallow
棉蘭	Medan (city in Indonesia)
棉蘭老島	Mindanao (island in the Philippines)
棉衣	cotton-padded clothes
棉被	comforter; quilt
棉褲	quilted cotton trousers; cotton-padded trousers (worn in winter)
棉襖	cotton-padded jacket
棉豆	lima bean, aka butter bean (Phaseolus lunatus)
棉鈴	cotton boll (fruit)
棉鈴蟲	cotton bollworm (Helicoverpa armigera)
棉鳧	(bird species of China) cotton pygmy goose (Nettapus coromandelianus)
棋	chess; chess-like game; a game of chess
棋具	checkers (board and pieces for go 圍棋|围棋 or Chinese chess 象棋 etc)
棋子	chess piece; (fig.) a pawn (used by others for their own purposes)
棋局	state of play in a game of chess; (old) chessboard
棋手	chess player
棋格狀	checkered pattern; chessboard
棋王	chess champion
棋盤	chessboard
棋藝	chess skill
棋譜	kifu (record of a game of go or shogi)
棋賽	chess game
棋逢對手	to be evenly matched; to meet one's match
棋高一著	to be a step ahead of the opponent (idiom); to outsmart one's opponent
棍	stick; rod; truncheon; scoundrel; villain
棍子	stick; rod
棍杖	staff; rod
棍棒	club; staff; stick
棍網球	lacrosse
棐	Torreya nucifera; strengthen
棑	raft; shield; stern of junk
棒	stick; club; cudgel
棒冰	popsicle
棒喝	practice in which a novice monk is shouted at or hit with a stick with the purpose of bringing about instant awakening (Buddhism)
棒國	(derog.) Korea
棒壇	baseball circles; baseball world
棒子	stick; club; cudgel
棒子國	(derog.) Korea, esp. South Korea
棒子麵	maize cornflour; corn mush; polenta
棒打鴛鴦	(idiom) to cruelly separate lovers (esp. by family or societal pressure); to forcibly break up a couple against their will
棒旋星系	barred spiral galaxy
棒材	bar; rod
棒棒噠	(Internet slang) awesome; amazing
棒棒機	bar phone (cell phone shaped like a bar of candy)
棒棒糖	lollipop; sucker
棒棒腿	chicken drumstick (Tw)
棒極了	super; excellent
棒槌	wooden club (used to beat clothes in washing)
棒殺	to bludgeon to death; (fig.) to defeat sb by publicly criticizing them
棒球	baseball
棒球迷	baseball fan
棒磨機	rod mill
棒糖	sucker; lollipop
棒約翰	Papa John's (pizza chain)
棒讀	(slang) to read or speak in a flat, emotionless manner (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 棒読み "bōyomi")
棒賽	(Tw) to defecate; to take a crap (from Taiwanese 放屎, Tai-lo pr. [pàng-sái])
棕	palm; palm fiber; coir (coconut fiber)
棕三趾鶉	(bird species of China) barred buttonquail (Turnix suscitator)
棕喉雀鶥	(bird species of China) rufous-throated fulvetta (Schoeniparus rufogularis)
棕噪鶥	(bird species of China) buffy laughingthrush (Pterorhinus berthemyi)
棕墊	palm fiber mat
棕夜鷺	(bird species of China) nankeen night heron (Nycticorax caledonicus)
棕尾伯勞	(bird species of China) red-tailed shrike (Lanius phoenicuroides)
棕尾虹雉	(bird species of China) Himalayan monal (Lophophorus impejanus)
棕尾褐鶲	(bird species of China) ferruginous flycatcher (Muscicapa ferruginea)
棕尾鵟	(bird species of China) long-legged buzzard (Buteo rufinus)
棕扇尾鶯	(bird species of China) zitting cisticola (Cisticola juncidis)
棕斑鳩	(bird species of China) laughing dove (Spilopelia senegalensis)
棕朱雀	(bird species of China) dark-rumped rosefinch (Carpodacus edwardsii)
棕枕山雀	(bird species of China) rufous-naped tit (Periparus rufonuchalis)
棕枝主日	Palm Sunday (Sunday before Easter)
棕枝全日	Palm Sunday (Christian Festival one week before Easter)
棕樹	palm tree
棕櫚	palm tree
棕櫚屬	palm tree genus (Areca spp.)
棕櫚樹	palm tree
棕櫚油	palm oil
棕櫚科	Arecaceae or Palmae, the palm family
棕櫚襞	(anatomy) the palmate folds of the cervical canal; plicae palmatae
棕毛	palm fiber; coir
棕毯	coir mat; palm fiber matting
棕熊	brown bear
棕眉山岩鷚	(bird species of China) Siberian accentor (Prunella montanella)
棕眉柳鶯	(bird species of China) yellow-streaked warbler (Phylloscopus armandii)
棕矮星	brown dwarf star
棕紅	reddish brown
棕編	woven palm fiber (used in handicraft); coir; woven coconut fiber
棕縛	palm fiber; rope of palm fiber; coir (coconut fiber)
棕繃	rectangular frame with a palm fiber mat woven across it (placed on a bed frame as the sleeping surface)
棕繩	rope of palm fiber; coir (coconut fiber)
棕翅鵟鷹	(bird species of China) rufous-winged buzzard (Butastur liventer)
棕肛鳳鶥	(bird species of China) rufous-vented yuhina (Yuhina occipitalis)
棕背伯勞	(bird species of China) long-tailed shrike (Lanius schach)
棕背田雞	(bird species of China) black-tailed crake (Zapornia bicolor)
棕背雪雀	(bird species of China) Blanford's snowfinch (Pyrgilauda blanfordi)
棕背黑頭鶇	(bird species of China) white-backed thrush; Kessler's thrush (Turdus kessleri)
棕胸佛法僧	(bird species of China) Indochinese roller (Coracias affinis)
棕胸岩鷚	(bird species of China) rufous-breasted accentor (Prunella strophiata)
棕胸竹雞	(bird species of China) mountain bamboo partridge (Bambusicola fytchii)
棕胸藍姬鶲	(bird species of China) snowy-browed flycatcher (Ficedula hyperythra)
棕胸雅鶥	(bird species of China) buff-breasted babbler (Pellorneum tickelli)
棕腹仙鶲	(bird species of China) rufous-bellied niltava (Niltava sundara)
棕腹啄木鳥	(bird species of China) rufous-bellied woodpecker (Dendrocopos hyperythrus)
棕腹大仙鶲	(bird species of China) Fujian niltava (Niltava davidi)
棕腹杜鵑	(bird species of China) Malaysian hawk-cuckoo (Hierococcyx fugax)
棕腹林鴝	(bird species of China) rufous-breasted bush robin (Tarsiger hyperythrus)
棕腹柳鶯	(bird species of China) buff-throated warbler (Phylloscopus subaffinis)
棕腹樹鵲	(bird species of China) rufous treepie (Dendrocitta vagabunda)
棕腹藍仙鶲	(bird species of China) Chinese vivid niltava (Niltava oatesi)
棕腹隼鵰	(bird species of China) rufous-bellied eagle (Lophotriorchis kienerii)
棕腹鵙鶥	(bird species of China) black-headed shrike-babbler (Pteruthius rufiventer)
棕臀噪鶥	(bird species of China) rufous-vented laughingthrush (Pterorhinus gularis)
棕臉鶲鶯	(bird species of China) rufous-faced warbler (Abroscopus albogularis)
棕色	brown
棕草鶥	(bird species of China) Tibetan babax (Pterorhinus koslowi)
棕藪鴝	(bird species of China) rufous-tailed scrub robin (Cercotrichas galactotes)
棕褐短翅鶯	(bird species of China) brown bush warbler (Locustella luteoventris)
棕褐色	tan; sepia
棕雨燕	(bird species of China) Asian palm swift (Cypsiurus balasiensis)
棕頂樹鶯	(bird species of China) grey-sided bush warbler (Cettia brunnifrons)
棕頦噪鶥	(bird species of China) rufous-chinned laughingthrush (Ianthocincla rufogularis)
棕頭幽鶥	(bird species of China) puff-throated babbler (Pellorneum ruficeps)
棕頭歌鴝	(bird species of China) rufous-headed robin (Larvivora ruficeps)
棕頭鉤嘴鶥	(bird species of China) red-billed scimitar babbler (Pomatorhinus ochraceiceps)
棕頭雀鶥	(bird species of China) spectacled fulvetta (Fulvetta ruficapilla)
棕頭鴉雀	(bird species of China) vinous-throated parrotbill (Suthora webbiana)
棕頭鷗	(bird species of China) brown-headed gull (Chroicocephalus brunnicephalus)
棕頸犀鳥	(bird species of China) rufous-necked hornbill (Aceros nipalensis)
棕頸鉤嘴鶥	(bird species of China) streak-breasted scimitar babbler (Pomatorhinus ruficollis)
棕頸雪雀	(bird species of China) rufous-necked snowfinch (Pyrgilauda ruficollis)
棕頸鴨	(bird species of China) Philippine duck (Anas luzonica)
棕額長尾山雀	(bird species of China) rufous-fronted bushtit (Aegithalos iouschistos)
棕黃	light brown
棕黑	dark brown
棖	door post
棗	(bound form) jujube; Chinese date (Zizyphus jujuba)
棗子	dates; jujube
棗強縣	Zaoqiang, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
棗樹	jujube tree; date tree; Zizyphus vulgaris
棗泥	jujube paste
棗瘋病	jujube witches' broom (infectious plant disease of jujube trees caused by Candidatus Phytoplasma ziziphi)
棗莊市	Zaozhuang, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
棗陽市	Zaoyang, a county-level city in Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
棘	thorns
棘手	thorny (problem); intractable
棘楚	thorny problem; troublesome affair
棘皮動物	echinoderm, the phylum containing sea urchins, sea cucumbers etc
棘輪	ratchet
棘鼻青島龍	Tsintaosaurus spinorhinus, a 10 meter long hadrosaur with a single horn on its duck-billed snout
棚	shed; canopy; shack
棚子	shack; shed
棚戶	shacks; shack-dwellers; slum-dwellers
棚戶區	shantytown
棚架	trellis; scaffolding
棚架格子	trellis latticework
棚頂	canopy; roof; ceiling
棜	tray for carrying sacrificial meats
棟	classifier for houses or buildings; ridgepole (old)
棟梁	ridgepole; ridgepole and beams
棠	cherry-apple
棠梨	birch-leaved pear (Pyrus betulaefolia)
棣	Kerria japonica
棤	rough tree bark
棧	a wooden or bamboo pen for sheep or cattle; wood or bamboo trestlework
棧主	innkeeper
棧單	cargo receipt; landing account; warehouse or storage receipt
棧地址	stack address (computing)
棧存儲器	stack memory (computing)
棧山航海	to have a long and hard journey (idiom)
棧徑	a plank road (built on trestles across the face of a cliff)
棧戀	sentimental attachment to a person or place
棧房	warehouse; storehouse; inn
棧板	pallet
棧架	trestle
棧橋	a pier; a landing-stage; a loading trestle for goods or passengers
棧橋式碼頭	jetty; pier
棧租	warehouse rent; cost of storage
棧豆	fodder
棧車	ancient vehicle made of wood and bamboo
棧道	plank walkway constructed on the face of a cliff
棧閣	plank road built along the side of a cliff
棧頂	stack top (computing)
棨	tally for going through a pass
棩	crooked (tree)
棪	(tree)
棫	(oak); thorny shrub
棬	bowl
森	(bound form) densely wooded
森喜朗	MORI Yoshirō (1937-), Japanese rugby player and politician, prime minister 2000-2001, famous for numerous gaffes
森嚴	strict; rigid; tight (security)
森巴舞	samba (Tw) (loanword)
森林	forest
森林培育	forestry; silviculture
森林浴	forest bathing: spending time in a forest, walking or deep-breathing etc, as therapy (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 森林浴 "shinrin'yoku")
森林腦炎	forest encephalitis
森森	dense (of trees); thick; ghastly
森海塞爾	Sennheiser (brand)
森然	(of tall trees) dense, thick; awe-inspiring
森田	Morita (Japanese surname)
森羅	many things arranged together, or connected together
森羅寶殿	Yama's palace
森羅殿	the Palace of the King of Hell 閻王|阎王[Yan2 wang5]
森美蘭	Sembilan, state of southwest Malaysia
棯	jujube tree
棰	to flog; whip
棱	used in 刺棱[ci1 leng1]; used in 花不棱登[hua1 bu5 leng1 deng1]
棲	to perch; to rest (of birds); to dwell
棲住	to dwell; to live
棲地	habitat
棲居	to inhabit; to live in (forests, mountains or wetlands etc)
棲息	(of a bird) to perch; (of creatures in general) to inhabit; to dwell
棲息地	habitat
棲木	roost; perch
棲棲	(literary) restless; unsettled
棲棲遑遑	(idiom) restless; unsettled
棲身	to stay at; to live in (temporarily)
棲霞區	Qixia, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
棲霞市	Qixia, a county-level city in Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
棳	small pillars that support the roof, those which rest on the main beam
棵	classifier for trees, cabbages, plants etc
棶	used in 棶木|梾木[lai2 mu4]
棶木	large-leaved dogwood (Cornus macrophylla)
棸	surname Zou
棺	coffin
棺木	coffin
棺材	coffin
棺材板	wooden board used to make a coffin (also refers to the coffin itself); (fig.) (of a facial expression) grim; unsmiling
棺材瓤子	geezer with one foot in the grave (used jokingly or as an imprecation)
棺槨	inner and outer coffins; coffin
棻	aromatic wood; perfume; fragrance
棼	beams in roof; confused
椄	(archaic) to graft (a branch, bud etc)
椅	chair
椅凳	bench; chairs and stools
椅子	chair
椅背	the back of a chair
椆	species of tree resistant to cold weather
椈	Fagus sylvatica
椊	to fit a handle into a socket; a plug or cork
椋	used in 椋鳥|椋鸟[liang2 niao3]
椋鳥	starling; gray starling (Sturnus cineraceus)
椌	(wooden mus. instr.)
植	to plant
植保	plant protection; crop protection (abbr. for 植物保護|植物保护[zhi2 wu4 bao3 hu4])
植入	to implant
植入式廣告	product placement
植株	(agriculture) plant
植根	to take root; to establish a base
植根於	to be rooted to; to take root in
植樹	to plant trees
植樹節	Arbor Day (observed on March 12th in China)
植樹造林	afforestation
植民	colony
植牙	dental implant
植物	plant; vegetation
植物人	person in a vegetative state; human vegetable
植物人狀態	vegetative state (i.e. in a coma)
植物化學成分	phytochemical
植物園	botanical garden; arboretum
植物學	botany
植物學家	botanist
植物油	vegetable oil
植物牛油	margarine
植物狀態	vegetative state (medicine)
植物界	Kingdom Plantae (biology)
植物群	flora
植物肉	plant-based meat
植物脂肪	vegetable fat
植田	Ueda (Japanese surname and place name)
植皮	to graft skin; skin grafting
植脂末	non-dairy creamer powder
植苗	tree planting
植被	vegetation; plant cover
植髮	to get a hair transplant
椎	hammer; mallet (variant of 槌[chui2])
椎間盤	intervertebral disk
椎骨	vertebra
椏	forking branch
椐	Zelkowa acuminata
椑	Fagus sylvatica
椒	pepper
椒子	(dialect) Sichuan peppercorn; (dialect) chili pepper
椒江區	Jiaojiang, a district of Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
椒鹽	seasoning mix of Sichuan pepper powder and salt
椓	beat
椝	nonstandard simplified variant of 槼|规[gui1]
椥	used in 檳椥|槟椥[Bin1 zhi1]
椪	used in 椪柑[peng4 gan1]
椪柑	ponkan, a variety of tangerine
椪餅	(Tw) pengbing, a hollow bun lined with brown sugar (from Taiwanese 膨餅, Tai-lo pr. [phòng-piánn])
椰	(bound form) coconut palm; Taiwan pr. [ye2]
椰奶	coconut milk
椰子	a coconut palm; a coconut
椰子汁	coconut water
椰子蟹	coconut crab (Birgus latro)
椰子貓	Asian palm civet (Paradoxurus hermaphroditus), also called toddy cat
椰林	coconut grove
椰林飄香	piña colada
椰果	nata de coco (a chewy jelly made from fermented coconut water)
椰棗	date palm; date (fruit)
椰殼	coconut shell
椰殼纖維	coconut fiber; coir
椰汁	coconut water
椰油	coconut oil
椰漿	coconut milk
椰皇	brown coconut; mature coconut
椰絲	shredded coconut
椰菜	cabbage; broccoli; cauliflower
椰菜花	cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis)
椰蓉	desiccated coconut; shredded coconut
椰青	young coconut; green coconut
椳	the pivots, at the top and bottom of a Chinese door, on which the door turns
椴	Chinese linden (Tilia chinensis)
椵	(grapefruit)
椷	(wooden) box; cup; letter
椸	clothes-horse
椹	used in 桑椹[sang1 shen4]
椽	beam; rafter; classifier for rooms
椽子	beam; rafter
椿	Chinese toon (Toona sinensis); tree of heaven (Ailanthus altissima)
椿象	stinkbug
楀	surname Yu
楂	fell trees; raft; to hew
楅	ox yoke placed on the horns
楊	surname Yang
楊丞琳	Rainie Yang (1984-), Taiwanese entertainer
楊俊	Yang Jun (571-600), son of the first Sui emperor 楊堅|杨坚[Yang2 Jian1]
楊億	Yang Yi (974-1020), Northern Song dynasty writer and poet
楊凝式	Yang Ningshi (873-954) calligrapher of the Five Dynasties period
楊利偉	Yang Liwei (1965–), the first Chinese astronaut sent into space
楊堅	first Sui emperor Yang Jian (541-604), reigned 581-604
楊守仁	Yang Shouren (1912-2005), PRC agricultural scientist
楊家將	Yang Saga, a popular fiction from the Northern Song, depicting the heroic Yang family 楊業|杨业 of warriors
楊寶森	Yang Baosen (1909-1958), Beijing opera star, one of the Four great beards 四大鬚生|四大须生
楊尚昆	Yang Shangkun (1907-1998), former president of PRC and military leader
楊建利	Yang JianLi, PRC human rights activist
楊振寧	Chen-Ning Franklin Yang (1922–2025), theoretical physicist, co-developer of Yang-Mills gauge theory, 1957 Nobel laureate
楊斌	Yang Bin (1963-), Chinese-Dutch businessman
楊月清	Yang Yueqing, Chinese-Canadian woman documentary film director
楊朱	Yang Zhu (c. 440-360 BC), Chinese philosopher advocating ethical egoism
楊柳	willow tree; poplar and willow; name of traditional tune
楊桃	carambola; star fruit
楊梅	red bayberry (Myrica rubra), aka Chinese bayberry
楊森	Yang Sen (1884-1977), Sichuan warlord and general
楊業	Yang Ye (died 986), Chinese military general of the Northern Han and the Northern Song dynasties, defended the Song against invasion by the Liao 遼|辽[Liao2]
楊樹	poplar tree; various trees of genus Populus
楊樹菇	poplar mushroom (Cyclocybe aegerita)
楊浦區	Yangpu district, central Shanghai
楊深秀	Yang Shenxiu (1849-1898), one of the Six Gentlemen Martyrs 戊戌六君子[Wu4 xu1 Liu4 jun1 zi5] of the unsuccessful reform movement of 1898
楊潔篪	Yang Jiechi (1950-), Chinese politician and diplomat, foreign minister of PRC 2007-2013
楊澄中	Yang Chengzhong (1913-1987), Chinese nuclear physicist
楊瀾	Yang Lan (1968-), Chinese media proprietor, journalist, and talk show hostess
楊炯	Yang Jiong (650-693?), one of the Four Great Poets of the Early Tang 初唐四傑|初唐四杰[Chu1 Tang2 Si4 jie2]
楊玉環	Yang Yuhuan, aka Yang Guifei 楊貴妃|杨贵妃[Yang2 Gui4 fei1] (719-756), famous Tang beauty, consort of Emperor Xuanzhong 唐玄宗[Tang2 Xuan2 zong1]
楊百翰	Brigham Young
楊百翰大學	Brigham Young University
楊福家	Yang Fujia (1936-), nuclear physicist
楊秀清	Yang Xiuqing (1821-1856), organizer and commander-in-chief of the Taiping Rebellion
楊維	Yang Wei (1979-), PRC badminton player, women's doubles specialist
楊致遠	Jerry Yang (1968-), Taiwan-US millionaire and creator of Yahoo
楊虎城	Yang Hucheng (1893-1949), Chinese warlord and Nationalist general
楊貴妃	Yang Guifei (719-756), famous Tang beauty, consort of Emperor Xuanzhong 唐玄宗[Tang2 Xuan2 zong1]
楊過	Yang Guo, protagonist of "The Return of the Condor Heroes" 神鵰俠侶|神雕侠侣[Shen2 diao1 Xia2 lu : 3]
楊采妮	Charlie Young (1974-), Hong Kong actress and singer
楊銳	Yang Rui (1855-1898), one of the Six Gentlemen Martyrs 戊戌六君子 of the unsuccessful reform movement of 1898
楊開慧	Yang Kaihui (1901-1930), Mao Zedong's second wife
楊陵區	Yangling, a district of Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
楋	(archaic) species of tree mentioned in ancient texts
楎	clothes-horse
楓	maple (genus Acer)
楓木	maple
楓樹	maple
楓糖	maple syrup
楓葉	maple leaf
楓葉國	(slang) Canada
楓葉鼠	(coll.) winter white dwarf hamster (Phodopus sungorus)
楓香木	Chinese sweetgum (Liquidambar formosana)
楓香樹	Chinese sweetgum (Liquidambar formosana)
楔	wedge; to hammer in (variant of 揳[xie1])
楔嘴鷯鶥	(bird species of China) Cachar wedge-billed babbler (Sphenocichla roberti)
楔子	wedge; peg; stopper
楔尾伯勞	(bird species of China) Chinese grey shrike (Lanius sphenocercus)
楔尾綠鳩	(bird species of China) wedge-tailed green pigeon (Treron sphenurus)
楔尾鷗	(bird species of China) Ross's gull (Rhodostethia rosea)
楔形	cuneiform (letters); wedge-shape
楔形文字	cuneiform (Babylonian script)
楔形物	wedge
楗	material (such as rocks, earth, bamboo etc) used to hastily repair a dike
楘	ornaments on chariot-shaft
楙	Cydonia japonica
楚	distinct; clear; orderly
楚國	the state of Chu, one of the most important of the small states contending for power in China between 770 and 223 BC, located around present-day Hubei
楚懷王	King Huai of Chu (reigned 328-299 BC)
楚楚	neat; lovely
楚楚可憐	(idiom) pitiable; sweet, innocent and vulnerable
楚河漢界	lit. the river that divides Chu and Han
楚漢戰爭	Chu-Han Contention (206-202 BC), power struggle between Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1] of Han and Xiang Yu 項羽|项羽[Xiang4 Yu3] of Chu
楚莊王	King Zhuang of Chu (reigned 613-591 BC), one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸
楚辭	Songs of Chu, an anthology of poetic songs, many from the state of Chu 楚[Chu3], collected in the Han dynasty 漢朝|汉朝[Han4 chao2]
楚雄市	Chuxiong, a county-level city in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
楚雄彝族自治州	Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
楛	broken utensil
楝	Melia japonica
楞	used in 楞迦[Leng2 jia1]
楞嚴	one who surmounts all obstacles (Buddhism)
楞子眼	(dialect) vacant look of a drunk or imbecile
楞迦	Lanka (old term for Sri Lanka, Ceylon)
楞迦島	Lanka (old term for Sri Lanka, Ceylon)
楠	Machilus nanmu; Chinese cedar; Chinese giant redwood
楠木	Phoebe zhennan; Machilus nanmu; Chinese cedar
楠格哈爾省	Nangarhar province of Afghanistan
楠梓	Nanzi or Nantzu district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
楠梓區	Nanzi or Nantzu district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
楢	Quercus glandulifera
楣	lintel; crossbeam
楥	(wooden) shoe last
楦	to block (a hat); to stretch (a shoe)
楦子	shoe tree; hat block
楦頭	toe box (of a shoe); shoe last (shoemaker's tool)
楨	(old) privet (genus Ligustrum)
楩	(tree)
楪	small dish; window
楫	oar (archaic)
楬	a peg; tally; score
業	line of business; industry; occupation
業主	owner; proprietor
業內	(within) the industry; the profession
業力	(Buddhism) karma
業務	business; professional work; service
業務員	salesperson
業大	part-time college (abbr. for 業餘大學|业余大学[ye4 yu2 da4 xue2])
業已	already
業師	teacher; one's teacher
業態	(retail industry) format
業根	the root cause (of evil); bane (Buddhism)
業海	sea of evil; endless crime
業滿	to have paid one's karmic debts (Buddhism)
業界	industry
業界標準	industry standard
業精於勤	mastery of study lies in diligence (idiom). You can only master a subject by assiduous study.
業經	already
業績	achievement; accomplishment
業者	dealer; trader; person or company engaged in some industry or trade
業荒於嬉	to be distracted from one's work and fail to achieve results (idiom)
業配	(Tw) (media) writing an article or creating a video favorable to a business in return for payment from the business (abbr. for 業務配合|业务配合[ye4 wu4 pei4 he2])
業配文	(Tw) advertorial
業障	karmic hindrance (Buddhism)
業餘	in one's spare time; outside working hours; amateur (historian etc)
業餘大學	college for people who attend after work
業餘愛好者	hobbyist; amateur
業餘教育	spare-time education; evening classes
業餘者	amateur
業龍	evil dragon
楮	Broussonetia kasinoki
楮紙	kozogami
楯	draw forth; horizontal railing
楰	(tree)
極	extremely; pole (geography, physics); utmost
極了	extremely; exceedingly
極值	maxima and minima; extremum
極光	aurora (meteorology)
極其	extremely
極刑	supreme penalty; execution
極力	to make a supreme effort; at all costs
極化	polarization
極北	extreme north
極北朱頂雀	(bird species of China) Arctic redpoll (Acanthis hornemanni)
極北柳鶯	(bird species of China) Arctic warbler (Phylloscopus borealis)
極南	extreme south
極右分子	extreme right-winger
極右翼	extreme right (politics)
極品	best quality; item of the highest quality; (slang) outrageous
極地	polar region
極夜	polar night
極大	enormous; great; (math.) maximum
極大值	maximum value
極好	fabulous; superb; excellent
極客	(loanword) (coll.) geek
極寒	extreme cold
極小	minimal; extremely small
極少	very little; very few
極少數	extremely few; a small minority
極差	range (of a set of data) (statistics)
極度	extremely
極座標	(math.) polar coordinates
極座標系	(math.) polar coordinate system
極徑	modulus (distance from the origin in polar coordinates)
極性	(chemical, electrical) polarity; polarized
極晝	polar day
極有可能	extremely possible; probable
極東	the Far East; East Asia
極核	polar nucleus
極樂	bliss; extreme happiness
極樂世界	paradise (mainly Buddhist); Elysium; (Budd.) Sukhavati
極權	totalitarian
極權主義	totalitarianism
極深研幾	deep and detailed investigation (idiom)
極為	extremely; exceedingly
極盛時期	most flourishing period; Golden Age
極目遠望	as far as the eye can see
極短篇小說	flash fiction
極端	extreme
極端主義	extremism
極端之惡	(philosophy) radical evil
極端分子	extremist
極簡主義	minimalism
極細小	extremely small; infinitesimal
極致	peak; pinnacle; ultimate
極角	polar angle; argument (angle in polar coordinates)
極超	hyper-; ultra-
極軸	polar axis (x-axis in polar coordinates)
極辣	very spicy
極道	yakuza
極限	limit; extreme boundary
極限運動	extreme sport
極點	extreme point; pole; the origin (in polar coordinates)
楷	model; pattern; regular script (calligraphic style)
楷字	regular script (Chinese calligraphic style)
楷書	regular script (Chinese calligraphic style)
楷模	model; example
楷體	regular script (Chinese calligraphic style)
楸	Catalpa; Mallotus japonicus
楸樹	Catalpa bungei or Manchurian Catalpa, a tea plant
楹	pillar
楹聯	couplet (hung on the columns of a hall)
榀	classifier for roof beams and trusses
概	(bound form) general; approximate; without exception; categorically
概型	(math.) a scheme
概型理論	scheme theory (math.)
概形	scheme (in algebraic geometry)
概念	concept; idea
概念化	conceptualization
概念地圖	mind map
概念驅動加工	concept-driven processing
概念驗證	proof of concept
概括	to summarize; to generalize; briefly; in broad outline
概括化	generalization
概數	approximate number
概況	general situation; summary
概測法	rough-and-ready method; rule of thumb
概率	probability (math.)
概率論	probability (math.)
概而不論	fuzzy about the details
概而言之	same as 總而言之|总而言之[zong3 er2 yan2 zhi1]
概要	outline
概覽	general overview; to skim through
概觀	to survey; to take stock of; overview
概論	outline; introduction; survey
概述	overview
榃	raised path between fields
榆	elm
榆中縣	Yuzhong, a county in Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
榆木	elm; elmwood
榆木疙瘩	(lit.) knot on an elm tree (idiom); (fig.) blockhead; dunce
榆木腦殼	(coll.) a blockhead; a thickhead
榆木腦袋	(coll.) thickhead; (coll.) thick skull (i.e. the brain of a thickhead)
榆林市	Yulin, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
榆樹	elm
榆樹市	Yushu, a county-level city in Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
榆次區	Yuci, a district of Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
榆社縣	Yushe, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
榆罔	Yuwang (c. 2000 BC), last of the legendary Flame Emperors 炎帝[Yan2 di4], defeated by the Yellow Emperor 黃帝|黄帝[Huang2 di4]
榆陽區	Yuyang, a district of Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
榎	(evergreen shrub); Celtis sinensis
榔	tall tree (archaic)
榔榆	Chinese or lacebark elm (Ulmus parvifolia)
榔槺	cumbersome; awkward and clumsy
榔頭	hammer; large hammer; sledgehammer
榕	Rong, another name for Fuzhou 福州[Fu2 zhou1]
榕城區	Rongcheng, a district of Jieyang City 揭陽市|揭阳市[Jie1 yang2 Shi4], Guangdong
榕樹	banyan
榕江縣	Rongjiang, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
榖	paper mulberry tree
榛	(bound form) hazelnut tree (Corylus heterophylla)
榛仁	hazelnut kernel; hazelnut "meat"
榛子	hazelnut
榛實	hazelnut
榛果	filbert; hazelnut; cobnut
榛栗	hazelnut
榛榛	overgrown with wild plants
榛色	filbert
榛莽	(literary) luxuriant vegetation
榛蕪	wilderness; bushy and weedy; humble
榛藪	dense wood
榛雞	hazel grouse
榜	(literary) oar; (metonym) boat; (literary) to whip; to flog
榜一大哥	highest-ranking donor of a live streamer
榜單	list of successful applicants for college admission
榜樣	model; example (for people to follow); (in reference to a person) role model
榜眼	candidate who came second in the Han-lin examination
榜笞	(literary) to beat; to flog; to whip
榜葛剌	old Chinese name for Bengal, now written 孟加拉[Meng4 jia1 la1]
榜首	top of the list
榠	used in 榠楂[ming2 zha1]
榠楂	Chinese quince (Pseudocydonia sinensis)
榡	Quercus dentata
榤	a stump on which chickens roost
榥	screen
榦	tree trunk
榧	Torreya nucifera
榨	to press; to extract (juice); device for extracting juice, oils etc
榨乾	(fig.) to squeeze dry; to exhaust
榨取	to extract; to squeeze out (juice etc); (fig.) to exploit
榨汁	to juice fruit or vegetables
榨汁機	juicer
榨油	to extract oil from vegetables; to press
榨菜	hot pickled mustard tuber
榨酒池	winepress
榪	headboard
榫	(cabinetmaking) tenon
榫卯	mortise and tenon
榫眼	mortise (slot cut into wood to receive a tenon)
榫銷	dowel; carpenter's pin
榫鑿	mortise chisel
榫頭	tenon (wooden projection to fit into a mortise)
榭	pavilion
榮	glory; honor; thriving
榮任	to be appointed or elevated to a post
榮光	glory
榮光頌	Gloria (in Catholic mass)
榮威	Roewe (brand)
榮市	Vinh, Vietnam
榮幸	honored (to have the privilege of ...)
榮成市	Rongcheng, a county-level city in Weihai City 威海市[Wei1 hai3 Shi4], Shandong
榮成灣	Roncheng bay near Weihai 威海市 on north coast of Shandong
榮昌區	Rongchang, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
榮景	period of prosperity
榮枯	flourishing and withering (of plants); (fig.) prosperity and decline
榮格	Carl Gustav Jung (1875-1961), Swiss psychiatrist
榮歸	to return home with honor
榮歸主	Gloria (section of Catholic mass)
榮歸故里	to return home with honor
榮毅仁	Rong Yiren (1916-2005), PRC Vice President from 1993-1998, played an important role in opening Chinese economy to Western investors
榮民	(Tw) retired soldier; veteran (abbr. for 榮譽國民|荣誉国民[rong2 yu4 guo2 min2])
榮獲	be honored with
榮登	(of a list, music chart etc) to reach the top
榮祿大夫	a rank in government service
榮縣	Rong County or Rongxian, a county in Zigong City 自貢市|自贡市[Zi4 gong4 Shi4], Sichuan
榮總	(Tw) Veterans General Hospital (used in the names of hospitals in Taipei, Taichung etc) (abbr. for 榮民總醫院|荣民总医院[Rong2 min2 Zong3 yi1 yuan4])
榮美	glorious
榮耀	honor; glory
榮華	glory and splendor
榮華富貴	glory, splendor, wealth and rank (idiom); high position and great wealth
榮譽	honor; credit; glory
榮譽博士	honorary doctorate; Doctor Honoris Causae
榮譽國民	(Tw) retired soldier; veteran
榮譽學位	honorary degree; (U.K. etc) honours degree
榮譽教授	emeritus professor
榮譽軍人	disabled soldier; serviceman wounded in action
榮軍	abbr. for 榮譽軍人|荣誉军人[rong2 yu4 jun1 ren2]
榮辱	honor and disgrace; reputation
榮辱與共	(of friends or partners) to share both the honor and the disgrace (idiom)
榮辱觀	precepts regarding what is honorable and what is shameful (in particular, refers to the Socialist Concepts on Honors and Disgraces, PRC official moral principles promulgated from 2006)
榰	base of pillar; prop
榱	rafter (classical)
榲	used in 榲桲|榅桲[wen1 po5]
榲桲	quince (Cydonia oblonga)
榴	pomegranate
榴彈	high explosive shell; grenade
榴彈炮	howitzer
榴彈發射器	grenade launcher
榴蓮	durian fruit; Durio zibethinus
榴蓮族	worker who is capable but unpleasant to deal with
榴霰彈	shrapnel shell; shrapnel; also pr. [liu2 san3 dan4]
榷	footbridge; toll, levy; monopoly
榻	couch
榻床	divan; couch
榻榻米	tatami (loanword from Japanese)
榼	Pusaetha scandens
榾	scraps of wood
榿	alder
榿木	alder
榿樹	long peduncled alder (Alnus cremastogyne); Alnus trebeculata
槀	dried up
槁	dried up (wood); dead tree
槃	wooden tray
槊	long lance
構	to construct; to form; to make up
構件	member; component; part
構圖	(art) composition
構型	structure; (spatial) configuration; arrangement
構建	to construct (sth abstract)
構思	to design; to plot; to plan out
構想	to conceive; concept
構想圖	notional diagram (i.e. made-up picture or artist's impression for news story)
構成	to constitute; to form; to compose
構架	structure
構樹	paper mulberry (Broussonetia papyrifera)
構築	to build; to construct
構詞	composite word
構詞學	morphology (linguistics)
構造	structure; composition; tectonic (geology)
構造運動	tectonic movement; movement of earth's crust
構陷	to frame; to bring false charges against
槌	mallet; pestle; beetle (for wedging or ramming)
槌球	croquet
槍	gun; firearm; rifle
槍傷	gunshot wound
槍刺	bayonet
槍匪	bandits with guns; an armed criminal; a gunman
槍口	muzzle of a gun
槍子	bullet
槍崩	(coll.) to shoot dead
槍彈	bullet
槍戰	gun battle; firefight
槍手	gunman; sharpshooter; sb who takes an exam for sb else
槍打出頭鳥	the shot hits the bird that pokes its head out (idiom)
槍托	butt of a gun; stock
槍把兒	butt of a gun
槍擊	to shoot with a gun; shooting incident
槍擊案	a shooting
槍支	a gun; guns in general
槍斃	to execute by firing squad; to shoot dead; fig. to discard
槍替	to substitute for sb in sitting an examination
槍林箭雨	forest of spear, rain of arrows
槍枝	(Tw) variant of 槍支|枪支[qiang1 zhi1]
槍栓	gun bolt
槍桿	gun barrel
槍桿兒	gun barrel
槍桿子	gun barrel
槍械	firearm
槍榴彈	rifle grenade
槍機	bolt of gun
槍殺	to shoot dead
槍決	to execute by firing squad; same as 槍斃|枪毙
槍法	marksmanship
槍灰色	gunmetal gray
槍烏賊	squid
槍版	amateur pirated DVD, made e.g. by shooting a running movie
槍眼	loophole (for firing); embrasure
槍砲	firearm
槍筒	barrel of a gun
槍管	gun barrel
槍聲	crack; shooting sound; gunshot
槍膛	bore of a gun
槍術	qiang (spear)
槍衣	gun cover
槍閂	breech bolt (e.g. of rifle)
槎	a raft made of bamboo or wood; to fell trees; to hew
槐	Chinese scholar tree (Sophora japonica); Japanese pagoda tree
槐樹	locust tree (Sophora japonica)
槐蔭區	Huaiyin, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
槑	(Internet slang) emphatic variant of 呆[dai1]
槓	(old) coffin-bearing pole; thick pole; bar; rod
槓上	to get into a dispute with
槓刀	to sharpen a knife (or razor etc)
槓夫	pole carrier; coffin-bearer
槓子	thick bar; solid carrying pole
槓掉	to cross out
槓桿	lever; pry bar; crowbar
槓槓的	(slang) (originally northeast dialect) excellent; great
槓盪	to shake; to rock
槓鈴	barbell
槓頭	(old) chief coffin bearer; (fig.) argumentative person
槓龜	(Tw) to lose one's shirt (gambling); to meet with failure (from Taiwanese 摃龜, Tai-lo pr. [kòng-ku])
槔	used in 桔槔[jie2 gao1]
槜李	ancient place in modern day Zhejiang Province
槢	a hard wood
槤	to thresh (using a flail)
槥	coffin
槧	wooden tablet; edition
槨	outer coffin
槭	maple; also pr. [zu2]; Taiwan pr. [cu4]
槭木	maple (timber)
槭樹	maple
槭糖漿	maple syrup
槮	lush growth (trees); fishing using bundled wood (archaic)
槱	ritual bonfire
槲	Mongolian oak (Quercus dentata)
槲寄生	mistletoe
槲樹	Mongolian oak (Quercus dentata); Daimyo oak
槲櫟	oriental white oak (Quercus aliena)
槲鶇	(bird species of China) mistle thrush (Turdus viscivorus)
槳	oar; paddle
槳手	rower; oarsman
槳板	stand-up paddleboarding (SUP); stand-up paddleboard
槳葉	propeller blade; rotor blade
槵	soapberry (order Sapindales)
槵子	fruit of the Sapindus trees (used for Buddhist prayer beads)
槺	empty space inside a building
槻	zelkova tree
槽	trough; manger; groove
槽位	slot
槽坊	brewery; papermaking craft shop (in former times)
槽孔	slot; groove; slotted hole
槽牙	(coll.) molar; back tooth
槽罐車	tanker truck; tank truck
槽車	tanker (truck)
槽鋼	steel groove; V-shaped steel bar
槽頭	feeding trough in stable
槽點	(slang) an aspect that invites ridicule (e.g. a film's plot inconsistencies or unrealistic character behavior)
槽齒目	Thecodontia (obsolete taxonomic grouping of reptiles)
槽齒類	thecodont (type of reptile that existed in the Permian and Triassic Periods)
槾	(tree)
槿	Hibiscus syriacus; transient
樁	stump; stake; pile
樁構棧道	pile trestle
樁樁件件	each and every one
樁腳	pier foundation (architecture)
樂	happy; cheerful; to laugh
樂不可支	overjoyed (idiom); as pleased as punch
樂不可極	(idiom) one should not overindulge in pleasure
樂不思蜀	indulge in pleasure and forget home and duty (idiom)
樂之	Ritz (cracker brand)
樂事	Lay's (brand)
樂亭縣	Laoting, a county in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
樂句	musical phrase
樂呵呵	happily; giddily
樂善好施	kind and charitable
樂器	musical instrument
樂園	paradise
樂團	band; orchestra
樂土	happy place; paradise; haven
樂在其中	to take pleasure in sth (idiom)
樂壇	music circles; music world
樂天	carefree; happy-go-lucky; optimistic
樂天派	happy-go-lucky people; optimists
樂天知命	to be content with what one is
樂子	fun; pleasure; laughing matter
樂安縣	Le'an, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
樂山市	Leshan, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
樂師	musician
樂平市	Leping, a county-level city in Jingdezhen City 景德鎮市|景德镇市[Jing3 de2 zhen4 Shi4], Jiangxi
樂府	yuefu (Chinese style of lyric poetry)
樂府詩集	Collection of Yuefu Songs and Ballads, compiled in the 11th century by Guo Maoqian 郭茂倩[Guo1 Mao4 qian4]
樂律	tuning; temperament
樂意	to be willing to do sth; to be ready to do sth; to be happy to do sth
樂感	musicality; feel for music
樂手	instrumental performer
樂捐	to donate
樂於	willing (to do sth); to take pleasure in
樂於助人	(idiom) willing to help others
樂施會	Oxfam (Oxford Committee for Famine Relief)
樂昌市	Lechang, a county-level city in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
樂昌破鏡	(lit.) the story of the broken mirror of Princess Lechang 樂昌公主|乐昌公主[Le4 chang1 Gong1 zhu3] (In the tale, the princess and her husband, fearing separation during the turbulence of war, broke a bronze mirror in half. They each kept one half as a token, with the promise to reunite by matching the pieces together. They were indeed separated, but eventually reunited, with the mirror playing a crucial role in their reunion.) (idiom)
樂曲	musical composition
樂東	Ledong Lizu autonomous county, Hainan
樂東縣	Ledong Lizu autonomous county, Hainan
樂東黎族自治縣	Ledong Lizu autonomous county, Hainan
樂業縣	Leye, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
樂極生悲	extreme joy turns to sorrow (idiom); Don't celebrate too soon, things could still go wrong!
樂此不疲	(idiom) to enjoy sth and never tire of it
樂歪	to be thrilled; (of sb's mouth) to form a grin
樂活	LOHAS (lifestyles of health and sustainability)
樂浪郡	Lelang commandery (108 BC-313 AD), one of four Han dynasty commanderies in north Korea
樂清市	Yueqing, a county-level city in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
樂滋滋	(coll.) contented; happy
樂理	music theory
樂福鞋	loafer shoes (loanword)
樂章	movement (of a symphony)
樂經	Book of Music, said to be one of the Six Classics lost after Qin's burning of the books in 212 BC, but may simply refer to Book of Songs 詩經|诗经
樂羊羊	Happy sheep (group of five cartoon sheep), mascot of 2010 Guangzhou Asian games 廣州亞運會|广州亚运会
樂至縣	Lezhi, a county in Ziyang City 資陽市|资阳市[Zi1 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
樂色	(slang) trash; garbage (pun on the Taiwan pr. of 垃圾[la1 ji1])
樂華梅蘭	Leroy Merlin (PRC DIY chain)
樂蒂	Betty Loh Ti, Chinese actress
樂蜀	Luxor, city in Egypt (Cantonese transliteration)
樂見	to be pleased to see (a circumstance, occurrence etc); to look favorably on
樂見其成	to look favorably on sth; would be glad see it happen
樂觀	optimistic; hopeful
樂觀主義	optimism
樂觀其成	to look favorably on sth; would be glad to see it happen
樂譜	a musical score; sheet music
樂購	Tesco, UK-based supermarket chain
樂趣	delight; pleasure; joy
樂迷	music fan
樂透	(loanword) lotto
樂道	to take delight in talking about sth
樂都區	Ledu, a district of Haidong City 海東市|海东市[Hai3 dong1 Shi4], Qinghai
樂開花	to burst with joy
樂陵市	Laoling, a county-level city in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
樂陶陶	joyful; cheerful
樂隊	band; pop group
樂音	musical note; tone
樂顛了餡	ecstatic; overjoyed
樂高	Lego, Danish brand of plastic building blocks
樂齡	golden years (after the age of about 60)
樅	used in 樅陽|枞阳[Zong1 yang2] (the name of a place in Anhui)
樅樹	fir
樅陽縣	Zongyang, a county in Tongling City 銅陵市|铜陵市[Tong2 ling2 Shi4], Anhui
樆	rowan or mountain ash (genus Sorbus)
樊	(literary) fence
樊城區	Fancheng, a district of Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
樊籠	bird cage; (fig.) prison; confinement
樊籬	(lit.) fence; hedge; (fig.) restriction
樎	manger
樏	(archaic) simple sedan chair for traveling in the mountains
樓	house with more than 1 story; storied building; floor
樓上	upstairs; (Internet slang) previous poster in a forum thread
樓下	downstairs
樓主	original poster (in an online forum)
樓子	pavilion
樓宇	building
樓層	floor; story (of a building)
樓市	real estate market
樓座	gallery seat (in theater)
樓廂	loft
樓房	a building of two or more stories
樓板	floor; floor (ie. metal plate, concrete slab, wooden planking etc)
樓梯	stair; staircase
樓梯口	head of a flight of stairs
樓梯臺	staircase balcony; landing
樓梯間	staircase; flight of stairs
樓棟	building
樓櫓	watch tower; movable battlefield turret
樓盤	building under construction; commercial property
樓臺	(dialect) balcony; terrace; (literary) high building
樓船	ship with several decks; turreted junk
樓花	apartment building offered for sale before construction is completed
樓蘭	Loulan, aka Kroraina, ancient oasis town on the Silk Road near Lop Nor 羅布泊|罗布泊[Luo2 bu4 po1]
樓道	corridor; passageway (in storied building)
樓閣	building; pavilion
樓閣塔	multistory pagoda
樓面	floor
樓頂	top of a building
樓鳳	(slang) prostitute who provides services in a private apartment
樕	shrub
樗	simaroubaceae
樗蒱	a kind of ancient game played with a set of two-sided dice
樘	pillar; door post; door or window frame
標	mark; sign; label
標價	to mark the price; marked price
標兵	parade guards (usually spaced out along parade routes); example; model
標售	to sell by tender
標圖	mark on map or chart
標地	plot of land
標定	to stake out (the boundaries of a property etc); to demarcate
標尺	surveyor's rod; staff; staff gauge
標幟	banner; standard
標底	base number (of a tender); starting price (for auction)
標度	scale
標得	to win (sth) in a bid
標新取異	to start on sth new and different (idiom); to display originality
標新立異	to make a show of being original or unconventional (idiom)
標新競異	to start on sth new and different (idiom); to display originality
標新領異	to bring in the new (idiom); new directions, different creation
標明	to mark; to indicate
標普	S&P (formerly Standard & Poor's), financial services company (abbr. for 標準普爾|标准普尔[Biao1 zhun3 Pu3 er3])
標書	bid or tender submission or delivery; bid or tender document
標會	private loan association where money is allocated through bidding
標本	specimen; sample; the root cause and symptoms of a disease
標本蟲	spider beetle
標杆	surveyor's pole; post (used for a landmark)
標架	a coordinate frame
標柱	distance marker; pole marking distance on racetrack
標格	style; character
標榜	to flaunt; to advertise; to parade
標槍	javelin
標樁	(marking) stake
標注	to mark out; to tag
標清	standard definition (TV or video image quality)
標準	standard; norm; criterion; (adjective) standard
標準像	official portrait
標準化	standardization
標準尺寸	gauge
標準差	(statistics) standard deviation
標準時	standard time
標準普爾	S&P (formerly Standard & Poor's), financial services company
標準桿	par (golf)
標準模型	Standard Model (of particle physics)
標準狀態	standard conditions for temperature and pressure
標準狀況	standard conditions for temperature and pressure
標準組織	standards organization; standards body
標準規格	standard; norm
標準語	standard language
標準間	standard (hotel) room; two-person room of standard size and amenities
標準音	standard pronunciation; standard tone (e.g. A = 440 Hz)
標燈	beacon light; beacon
標牌	label; tag; sign; (brass etc) inscribed plate
標界	to demarcate a boundary; dividing line
標的	target; aim; objective
標磚	marker brick (in building); keystone
標示	to indicate
標稱	nominal (voltage, horsepower etc)
標章	(Tw) seal of approval; certification mark (logo indicating compliance with specified standards)
標竿	benchmark; pole serving as mark or symbol
標籤	label; tag; (computing) tab (GUI element)
標籤頁	tab (of a browser window)
標線	marking line (painted on a road to guide motorists); reticle
標繪	to plot (on a chart); to mark
標致	(of a woman) beautiful; pretty
標號	grade
標記	sign; mark; symbol
標誌	sign; mark; symbol; logo; to symbolize; to indicate; to mark
標誌性	iconic
標語	written slogan; placard
標語牌	placard
標識	identifying mark, sign, label etc; to mark or label for identification
標賣	to sell at marked price; to sell by tender
標配	to provide as a standard feature
標量	scalar quantity
標金	standard gold bar; deposit when submitting a tender
標間	abbr. for 標準間|标准间[biao1 zhun3 jian1], standard (hotel) room
標音法	phonetic transcription; system of representing spoken sounds
標題	title; heading; headline
標題新聞	headline news; title story
標題欄	title bar (of a window) (computing)
標題語	title word; entry (in dictionary)
標題黨	"sensational headline writers", people who write misleading titles in order to generate clicks from Internet users
標高	elevation; level
標點	punctuation; a punctuation mark; to punctuate
標點符號	punctuation; a punctuation mark
樛	to hang down
樞	(bound form) hinge; pivot (usu. fig.)
樞垣	censorate
樞密院	privy council
樞機	cardinal (Catholicism)
樞機主教	cardinal (of the Catholic Church)
樞紐	hub (e.g. of traffic network); hinge; pivot
樞軸	pivot; fulcrum
樟	camphor; Cinnamonum camphara
樟宜	Changi, area in the east of Singapore, where Singapore Changi Airport is located
樟木	Dram (Chinese Zhangmu), town at Tibet-Nepal border
樟樹	camphor; Cinnamonum camphara
樟樹市	Zhangshu, a county-level city in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
樟腦	camphor C10H16O
樟腦丸	camphor balls; moth balls
樟腦球	camphor balls; moth balls
樠	elm; gum
模	to imitate; model; norm
模仿	to imitate; to copy; to emulate
模仿品	imitation product; counterfeit; knockoff
模似	to simulate; to emulate
模具	(manufacturing) mold; die; also pr. [mo2ju4]
模因	meme (loanword)
模型	model; mold; matrix
模塊	module (in software); functional unit; component part
模塊化	modularity
模塊化理論	modularity theory
模塊單元	modular unit
模塊式	modular
模塊板	module board
模壓	mold pressing
模子	mold; matrix; pattern or die
模式	mode; pattern; model
模式標本	type specimen (used to define a species)
模式種	type species (used to define a genus in taxonomy)
模形	pattern
模態	modal (computing, linguistics)
模擬	imitation; to simulate; to imitate
模擬信號	analog signal
模擬器	emulator
模擬放大器	analog amplifier
模數	analog-to-digital; abbr. for 模擬到數字|模拟到数字
模數轉換器	analog-to-digital converter (ADC)
模板	template; (architecture) formwork
模樣	look; style; appearance
模特	(fashion) model (loanword)
模特兒	(fashion) model (loanword)
模稜	ambiguous; undecided and unclear
模稜兩可	equivocal; ambiguous
模範	model; fine example
模糊	vague; indistinct; fuzzy; to blur; to obscure; to confuse; to mix up
模糊不清	indistinct; fuzzy; blurred with age
模糊數學	fuzzy mathematics
模糊邏輯	fuzzy logic
模組	(hardware or software) module (computing)
模里西斯	Mauritius (Tw)
樣	manner; pattern; way
樣例	sample; model; example
樣品	sample; specimen
樣單	sample sheet; form; (computing) stylesheet
樣子	appearance; manner; pattern
樣式	type; style
樣張	(printing) proof; specimen page; sample photograph
樣本	sample; specimen
樣板	template; prototype; model
樣板戲	model theater (operas and ballets produced during the Cultural Revolution)
樣條函數	spline function (math.)
樣樣	all kinds
樣樣通，樣樣鬆	jack of all trades, master of none
樣機	prototype
樣章	sample chapter
樣貌	appearance; manifestation
樧	Zanthoxylum ailanthoides
樨	Osmanthus fragrans
樲	acid variety of jujube plum
樴	stake; picket
樵	firewood; gather wood
樵夫	woodman; woodcutter
樵子	woodcutter
樶	knag; a kind of sled used to cross a muddy area (old)
樸	(bound form) plain; simple; Taiwan pr. [pu2]
樸實	plain; simple; guileless
樸實無華	(idiom) simple; plain; unadorned
樸次茅斯	Portsmouth, southern English seaport
樸素	plain and simple; unadorned; simple living
樸門	(loanword) permaculture
樹	tree; to cultivate; to set up
樹上熟	tree-ripe
樹上開花	to deck the tree with false blossoms
樹人	to prepare children to become capable citizens
樹倒猢猻散	When the tree topples the monkeys scatter. (idiom); fig. an opportunist abandons an unfavorable cause
樹冠	treetop
樹化玉	wood jade (type of petrified wood)
樹叢	thicket; undergrowth
樹大招風	lit. a tall tree attracts the wind (idiom)
樹屋	tree house
樹幹	tree trunk
樹懶	sloth (zoology)
樹挪死，人挪活	lit. if moved to a new location, a tree will die, but a person will live (idiom)
樹掛	ice (rime) formed on a tree
樹敵	to antagonize people; to make an enemy of sb
樹木	tree
樹林	Shulin city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
樹林市	Shulin city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
樹枝	branch; twig
樹枝狀晶	(crystallography, metallurgy) dendritic crystal
樹根	tree roots
樹梢	the tip of a tree; treetop
樹棲	arboreal; tree-dwelling
樹樁	tree stump
樹欲靜而風不止	lit. the trees long for peace but the wind will never cease (idiom)
樹洞	tree hollow; (slang) anonymous platform for sharing secrets
樹液	tree sap
樹熟	tree-ripe
樹狀細胞	dendritic cell
樹獺	(zoology) sloth (rare – the standard term is 樹懶|树懒[shu4 lan3])
樹番茄	tamarillo
樹皮	tree bark
樹碑立傳	lit. to erect a stele and write a biography (idiom); to monumentalize
樹種	tree species
樹突	(anatomy) dendrite
樹突狀細胞	dendritic cell
樹立	to set up; to establish
樹籬	hedge
樹脂	resin
樹膠	tree resin; gum
樹苗	sapling; young tree
樹莓	bramble; raspberry
樹莓派	Raspberry Pi (computing)
樹菠蘿	jackfruit
樹葉	tree leaves
樹葡萄	jaboticaba; Brazilian grape tree
樹葬	burial of cremated remains at the foot of a tree
樹蔭	shade of a tree; Taiwan pr. [shu4yin4]
樹蛙	tree frog
樹袋熊	koala
樹身	tree trunk
樹陰	shade (of a tree)
樹高千丈，葉落歸根	fig. a tree may grow a thousand zhang high, but its leaves return to their roots (proverb)
樹鷚	(bird species of China) olive-backed pipit (Anthus hodgsoni)
樹麻雀	(bird species of China) Eurasian tree sparrow (Passer montanus)
樹齡	age of a tree
樺	(botany) birch (genus Betula)
樺南縣	Huanan, a county in Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
樺川縣	Huachuan, a county in Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
樺木	birch
樺木科	Betulaceae (broadleaf tree family including birch and alder)
樺樹	birch
樺甸市	Huadian, a county-level city in Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
樽	goblet; bottle; wine-jar
樽罍	earthen liquor jar
樾	shade of trees
樿	(wood)
橁	Fraxinus bungeana
橃	large boat
橄	used in 橄欖|橄榄[gan3 lan3]
橄欖	Chinese olive; olive
橄欖山	Mount of Olives (in the Christian passion story)
橄欖岩	peridotite (geology)
橄欖枝	olive branch; (fig.) conciliatory gesture; overture of goodwill
橄欖樹	olive tree
橄欖油	olive oil
橄欖球	football played with oval-shaped ball (rugby, American football, Australian rules etc)
橄欖石	olivine (rock-forming mineral magnesium-iron silicate (Mg,Fe)2SiO4)
橄欖綠	olive-green (color)
橇	sled; sleigh
橈	(literary) to disturb; (literary) to weaken
橈骨	radius (anatomy); bone of the forearm
橋	bridge
橋台	abutment (architecture)
橋墩	bridge pier
橋式整流器	(electricity) bridge rectifier
橋接	to join by or as if by a bridge; to bridge
橋接器	bridge (networking)
橋本	Hashimoto (Japanese surname and place name)
橋本龍太郎	HASHIMOTO Ryūtarō (1937-2006), Japanese politician, prime minister 1996-1998
橋東區	Qiaodong, a district of Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
橋梁	bridge (lit. and fig.)
橋段	(cinema, literature etc) scene; trope; plot device
橋牌	contract bridge (card game)
橋腦	(anatomy) pons
橋西區	Qiaoxi, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
橋鎮	Bridgetown, capital of Barbados (Tw)
橋面	roadway; floor; deck
橋頭	either end of a bridge; a bridgehead
橋頭堡	bridgehead (military)
橎	a kind of tree
橐	sack; tube open at both ends; (onom.) footsteps
橐中裝	gems; jewels; valuables
橐囊	sacks; bags
橐橐	(onom.) footsteps
橐笥	bag; satchel
橐筆	to make one's living by writing
橐駝	camel; hunchback
橐龠	bellows for blowing up the fire in a furnace etc
橕	a prop; a shore
橘	mandarin orange (Citrus reticulata); tangerine
橘味	tangerine flavor
橘子	tangerine
橘子水	orangeade; orange squash
橘子汁	orange juice
橘子醬	orange jam; marmalade
橘柑	tangerine; orange
橘樹	orange tree
橘皮組織	cellulite
橘紅	orange (color); orange peel (used in TCM)
橘絡	pith of mandarin orange
橘色	orange (color)
橘里橘氣	lesbian-like (i.e. exhibiting lesbian traits) (coined c. 2018)
橘錄	classification of orange trees by 12th century Song dynasty botanist Han Yanzhi 韓彥直|韩彦直[Han2 Yan4 zhi2]
橘黃色	tangerine yellow; saffron (color)
橙	orange tree; orange (color)
橙劑	Agent Orange (herbicide)
橙子	orange
橙斑翅柳鶯	(bird species of China) buff-barred warbler (Phylloscopus pulcher)
橙汁	orange juice
橙皮	orange peel
橙皮果醬	(orange) marmalade
橙紅色	red-orange color; dark orange
橙翅噪鶥	(bird species of China) Elliot's laughingthrush (Trochalopteron elliotii)
橙胸咬鵑	(bird species of China) orange-breasted trogon (Harpactes oreskios)
橙胸姬鶲	(bird species of China) rufous-gorgeted flycatcher (Ficedula strophiata)
橙胸綠鳩	(bird species of China) orange-breasted green pigeon (Treron bicinctus)
橙腹葉鵯	(bird species of China) orange-bellied leafbird (Chloropsis hardwickii)
橙色	orange (color)
橙色劑	Agent Orange (herbicide)
橙色戰劑	Agent Orange (herbicide)
橙頭地鶇	(bird species of China) orange-headed thrush (Geokichla citrina)
橙黃	orange yellow; tangerine yellow; chrome yellow; amber
橙黃色	orange yellow; tangerine yellow; chrome yellow; amber
橚	tall and straight (of trees)
橛	a peg; low post
機	(bound form) machine; mechanism; (bound form) aircraft
機不可失	No time to lose! (idiom)
機不可失，失不再來	opportunity knocks but once (idiom)
機不可失，時不再來	Opportunity knocks but once. (idiom)
機不離手	to be unable to do without one's cell phone
機件	component (mechanics)
機位	camera position; airline seat; seat reservation
機制	mechanism
機加酒	flight and hotel (travel package) (abbr. for 機票加酒店|机票加酒店[ji1 piao4 jia1 jiu3 dian4])
機動	locomotive; motorized; power-driven
機動性	flexibility
機動車	motor vehicle
機動車輛	motor vehicle
機務段	locomotive depot
機哩瓜拉	(Taiwan) see 嘰哩咕嚕|叽哩咕噜[ji1 li5 gu1 lu1]
機器	machine
機器人	robot; android
機器人學	robotics
機器學習	(computing) machine learning
機器翻譯	machine translation
機器腳踏車	(dialect) motorcycle; abbr. to 機車|机车[ji1 che1]
機型	the specific model of a machine (e.g. cell phone model, laptop model, aircraft model)
機場	airport; airfield
機場大廈	airport terminal
機子	machine; device
機宜	guidelines; what to do (under given circumstances)
機密	secret; classified; classified information; secret
機密性	confidentiality
機密文件	secret document
機尾	the rear (tail) of a plane etc
機巧	cunning; dexterous; ingenious
機師	(aviation) pilot; (heavy machinery) operator
機床	machine tool; a lathe
機庫	(aircraft) hangar
機建費	airport construction fee (abbr. for 機場建設費|机场建设费)
機房	machine room; engine room; computer room
機敏	agility
機智	quick-witted; resourceful
機會	opportunity; chance; occasion
機會主義	opportunism; pragmatism
機會成本	opportunity cost
機杼	a loom
機械	machine; machinery; mechanical
機械人	(HK) robot
機械化	to mechanize
機械工	a mechanic
機械工人	mechanic
機械工程	mechanical engineering
機械師	mechanic; engineer; machinist
機械性	mechanical
機械戰警	RoboCop (movie)
機械硬盤	(computing) hard disk drive (HDD)
機械碼	machine code
機械翻譯	machine translation
機械能	mechanical energy
機械臂	robotic arm
機械語言	machine language
機械錶	mechanical watch
機械鐘	mechanical clock
機械降神	deus ex machina
機構	mechanism; structure; organization
機槍	machine gun
機殼	case, casing, cabinet or housing (of a computer, photocopier etc)
機油	engine oil
機洗	to machine-wash
機率	(Tw) (math.) probability
機理	mechanism
機甲	mecha (human-operated robots in Japanese manga)
機票	plane ticket; airline ticket
機箱	computer case
機組	flight crew (on a plane); unit (apparatus)
機緣	chance; opportunity; destiny
機翻	machine translation (abbr. for 機器翻譯|机器翻译[ji1 qi4 fan1 yi4])
機翼	wing (of an aircraft)
機能	function
機艙	cabin of a plane
機製	machine-processed; machine-made
機要	(attributive) (of a person) involved in sensitive, confidential work; (of information) secret; classified
機詐	deceitful
機謀	stratagem; scheme; shrewdness
機警	perceptive; astute; sharp
機變	improvisation; flexible; adaptable
機踏車	motorcycle (Tw); abbr. for 機器腳踏車|机器脚踏车[ji1 qi4 jiao3 ta4 che1]
機身	body of a vehicle or machine; fuselage of a plane
機車	locomotive; train engine car; (coll.) motorcycle
機軸	arbor; shaft (in a machine)
機遇	opportunity; favorable turn of events; stroke of luck
機運	chance and opportunity
機長	(aviation) pilot-in-command; captain
機關	mechanism; gear; machine-operated
機關報	official (government-operated) newspaper
機關布景	machine-operated stage scenery
機關槍	machine gun; also written 機槍|机枪[ji1 qiang1]
機關炮	machine cannon; machine-gun cannon
機關算盡太聰明，反算了卿卿性命	if one is too calculating, it will be the cause of one's own undoing (famous line in "A Dream of Red Mansions" 紅樓夢|红楼梦[Hong2 lou2 Meng4])
機關車	locomotive
機電	machinery and power-generating equipment; electromechanical
機靈	alert; quick-witted; lively
機靈鬼	(jocular) clever and quick-witted person
機頂盒	set-top box
機頭	the front (nose) of a plane etc
機頭座	headstock; turning head of a screw, drill, lathe etc
機體	organism (biology); airframe (aeronautics)
橡	oak; Quercus serrata
橡子	acorn
橡子麵	acorn flour
橡實	acorn
橡木	oaken
橡樹	oak
橡皮	rubber; an eraser
橡皮圖章	(lit. and fig.) rubber stamp
橡皮擦	eraser; rubber
橡皮泥	plasticine; modeling clay
橡皮球	rubber ball
橡皮筋	rubber band
橡皮線	wire (sheathed in rubber); cable
橡皮膏	sticking plaster; adhesive bandage
橡皮艇	rubber dinghy
橡膠	rubber; caoutchouc
橡膠樹	rubber tree
橢	ellipse
橢圓	oval; ellipse; elliptic
橢圓函數	(math.) elliptic function
橢圓形	oval
橢圓形辦公室	Oval Office
橢圓曲線	(math.) elliptic curve
橢圓機	elliptical machine (exercise)
橢圓積分	(math.) elliptic integral
橢球	(math.) ellipsoid
橧	dwelling on top of wooden stakes
橫	harsh and unreasonable; unexpected
橫七豎八	in disorder; at sixes and sevens (idiom)
橫三豎四	in disorder; in a tremendous mess
橫刀奪愛	to rob sb of sth they cherish (idiom)
橫切	to cut across; a horizontal cut
橫剖面	horizontal section
橫加	violently; flagrantly
橫加指責	to blame unscrupulously
橫匾	horizontal tablet (for an inscription)
橫向	horizontal; orthogonal; perpendicular
橫吹	military wind and percussion music played on horseback under the Han
橫屍遍野	corpses are strewn across the field (typically after a battle)
橫山	Hengshan, the name of various places; Yokoyama (Japanese surname)
橫山區	Hengshan, a district of Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
橫峰縣	Hengfeng, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
橫州市	Hengzhou, a county-level city in Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
橫幅	horizontal scroll; banner; streamer
橫幅標語	slogan banner
橫座標	horizontal coordinate; abscissa
橫征暴斂	to tax by force and extort levies (idiom); to screw taxes out of the people by force
橫心	to steel oneself; to harden one's heart
橫截	to cut across; cross-sectional; transverse
橫截線	transversal line
橫截面	cross-section
橫批	horizontal scroll (for inscription)
橫折	(horizontal-starting right angle character stroke)
橫拍	(table tennis) shakehand grip
橫挑鼻子豎挑眼	to pick on sth incessantly (idiom); to criticize right and left
橫振動	transverse vibration
橫掃	to sweep away; to sweep across
橫掃千軍	total annihilation
橫排	horizontal setting (printing)
橫搖	rolling motion (of a boat)
橫摺	horizontal fold or tuck
橫斑林鶯	(bird species of China) barred warbler (Curruca nisoria)
橫斑腹小鴞	(bird species of China) spotted owlet (Athene brama)
橫斜	oblique; slanting
橫斜鉤	⺄ stroke in Chinese characters
橫斷	to cross (a road, an ocean etc); to cut across
橫斷山脈	Hengduan mountains, several parallel mountain ranges on the border between west Yunnan and Sichuan and east Tibet
橫斷步道	pedestrian crossing
橫斷物	transverse object
橫斷面	horizontal section
橫是	probably; most likely
橫暴	brutal; violent
橫木	horizontal beam; wooden crossbar; thwart
橫梁	beam
橫楣	lintel
橫楣子	lintel
橫槓	bar; horizontal bar
橫標	banner; horizontal slogan or advertisement
橫步	sidestep (in dance); step sideways
橫死	to die by violence
橫波	transverse wave
橫流	to overflow; transverse flow; to flow over
橫渡	to cross (a body of water)
橫溢	to overflow; brimming with
橫濱	Yokohama (city in Japan)
橫生	to grow without restraint; overflowing with; to happen unexpectedly
橫生枝節	to deliberately complicate an issue (idiom)
橫直	(colloquial) whatever; come what may
橫眉	to concentrate one's eyebrows; to frown; to scowl
橫眉冷對千夫指	to face a thousand pointing fingers with a cool scowl (citation from Lu Xun)
橫眉怒目	lit. furrowed brows and blazing eyes
橫眉立目	to scowl and stare down; to defy
橫眉豎眼	to scowl fiercely; to glare
橫眼	from the side of the eye; askance
橫神經	transverse commissure
橫禍	unexpected calamity
橫稜紋	crosswise pattern
橫空	filling the atmosphere; covering the sky
橫空出世	(idiom) to come to the fore in spectacular fashion; to emerge from obscurity to achieve great success
橫穿	to cross; to traverse
橫筆	bristles lying down (brush movement in painting)
橫筋斗	cartwheel
橫紋	horizontal stripe; striation
橫紋肌	striated muscle
橫結腸	transverse colon (anatomy); second section of large intestine
橫綱	yokozuna
橫線	horizontal line; (math.) horizontal axis
橫翻筋斗	to turn cartwheels
橫肉	fierce-looking
橫膈	diaphragm
橫膈膜	(anatomy) diaphragm
橫臥	to recline
橫行	to go on the rampage; to riot; to run amuck
橫行無忌	(idiom) to run rampant; to act with impunity
橫行霸道	to oppress; to rule as a despot; to tyrannize
橫街	side street; road branching from the main street
橫衝直撞	(idiom) to barge through, jostling and elbowing; to charge around; to rampage
橫說豎說	to explain sth over and over again; to repeat
橫豎	anyway
橫豎勁兒	firmness of determination
橫財	easy money; windfall; ill-gotten gains
橫貫	horizontal traverse; to cut across; to cross transversally
橫越	to cross; to pass over; to traverse
橫跨	to span; to stretch across; to travel across
橫路	side street; crossroad
橫躺	to lie flat
橫躺豎臥	to lie down all over the place; exhausted and in disarray
橫過	to traverse
橫鉤	horizontal stroke with a hook at the end (in Chinese characters)
橫陳	to lie in disarray; to cut across; to traverse
橫隊	rank; row; troops (or vehicles etc) lined up side by side
橫隔	tabula (horizontal floor of polyp)
橫須賀	Yokosuka (port and navy base in the Tokyo bay)
橫須賀市	Yokosuka city and US naval base to the west of Yokohama, Japan
橫頭橫腦	coarse and arrogant; always in the right
橫額	horizontal tablet (for an inscription)
橫風	crosswind
橫飛	(of spittle, blood, bullets etc) to fly through the air
橫骨	pubic bone
橾	the hole in the center of a wheel accommodating the axle (archaic)
橿	Quercus glauca
檀	sandalwood; hardwood; purple-red
檀君	Tangun, legendary founder of Korea in 2333 BC
檀君王	Tangun, legendary founder of Korea in 2333 BC
檀越	(Buddhism) benefactor (designation of a lay person by a monk)
檀香	sandalwood
檀香山	Honolulu, capital of Hawaii; also transliterated as 火奴魯魯|火奴鲁鲁
檁	cross-beam; ridge-pole
檃	tool used for shaping wood (old)
檃栝	straightening machine; also pr. [yin3 gua1]
檄	dispatch; order
檄文	(old, now used figuratively) official call to arms
檄書	(old, now used figuratively) official call to arms
檇	wooden pestle or rammer
檉	tamarisk
檊	Chinese mulberry; sandalwood
檍	Quercus glauca
檎	used in 林檎[lin2 qin2]
檐	eaves; ledge or brim
檐廊	veranda
檑	logs rolled down in defense of city
檔	(bound form) shelves (for files); pigeonholes; (bound form) files
檔口	stall; booth
檔子	classifier for affairs, events etc
檔期	slot within a schedule
檔案	file; record; archive
檔案傳輸協定	File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
檔案夾	file folder; portfolio
檔案盒	archive box
檔案總管	(computing) file manager
檔案袋	archive envelope; portfolio
檔案館	archive library
檔次	grade; class; quality
檖	(tree)
檗	used in 黃檗|黄檗[huang2 bo4]
檜	Chinese juniper (Juniperus chinensis); (old) coffin lid decoration
檜木	false cypress (genus Chamaecyparis)
檜柏	Chinese juniper (Juniperus chinensis)
檟	Catalpa, a genus of mostly deciduous trees
檠	instrument for straightening bows
檢	to check; to examine; to inspect
檢修	to overhaul; to examine and fix (a motor); to service (a vehicle)
檢出	to detect
檢孕棒	home pregnancy test kit
檢字法	indexing system for Chinese characters in a dictionary
檢字表	character index; table for looking up characters (in a dictionary or reference work)
檢定	a test; determination; to check up on
檢察	to inspect; (law) to prosecute; to investigate
檢察官	public prosecutor; public procurator (judicial officer whose job may involve both criminal investigation and public prosecution)
檢察總長	(Tw) Prosecutor-General
檢察院	prosecutor's office; procuratorate
檢屍	autopsy; necropsy; postmortem examination
檢控	to prosecute (criminal); the prosecution
檢控官	prosecutor; procurator
檢控方	the prosecuting side (in a trial); the prosecution
檢方	the prosecution; prosecutors
檢束	to regulate; to check and restrict
檢查	inspection; to examine; to inspect
檢查員	inspector
檢查哨	inspection post; checkpoint
檢查站	checkpoint
檢校	to check; to verify; to proof-read
檢毒盒	detection kit
檢毒箱	detection kit
檢波	to detect (e.g. radio waves)
檢測	to test; to detect
檢測儀	sensor; detector
檢測器	detector
檢漏	to check for leaks
檢疫	quarantine
檢眼鏡	ophthalmoscope; funduscope
檢票	to inspect a ticket; to examine a ballot
檢索	to retrieve (data); to look up; retrieval
檢舉	to report (an offense to the authorities); to inform against sb
檢視	to inspect; to examine
檢討	to examine or inspect; self-criticism; review
檢證	verification; inspection
檢警調	(Tw) public prosecutors, the police, and the Investigation Bureau (abbr. for 檢察官、警察、調查局|检察官、警察、调查局[jian3 cha2 guan1 , jing3 cha2 , diao4 cha2 ju2])
檢錄	roll-call (e.g. at athletics event); check the record
檢閱	to inspect; to review (troops etc); military review
檢驗	to inspect; to examine; to test
檢驗醫學	laboratory medicine
檢點	to examine; to check; to keep a lookout
檣	boom; mast
檨	mango
檫	Chinese sassafras; Sassafras tzumu
檬	used in 檸檬|柠檬[ning2 meng2]
檮	dunce; blockhead
檮杌	legendary beast
檯	desk; table; counter
檯子	desk; (pool etc) table
檯安縣	Tai'an, a county in Anshan City 鞍山市[An1 shan1 Shi4], Liaoning
檯布	tablecloth
檯曆	desk calendar
檯燈	desk lamp; table lamp
檯秤	platform scale; (dialect) counter scale; bench scale
檯賬	detailed record or log
檯鐘	desk clock
檯面	tabletop; countertop; (fig.) public view
檯面呢	(billiards) baize
檳	used in 檳榔|槟榔[bing1 lang5]; Taiwan pr. [bin1]
檳城	Penang (Malaysian state)
檳子	binzi, a species of apple which is slightly sour and astringent; the tree that produces this apple
檳州	Penang (Malaysian state)
檳椥	Ben Tre, province and city in Vietnam
檳榔	betel palm (Areca catechu); betel nut
檳榔嶼	(old name) Penang Island, Malaysia
檳榔西施	(Tw) betel nut beauty: a skimpily-dressed, attractive girl who sells betel nut from a glass-walled roadside booth
檳知	Ben Tre, province and city in Vietnam
檴	(tree)
檵	fringe flower (Loropetalum chinense), evergreen shrub
檵木	fringe flower (Loropetalum chinense), evergreen shrub
檵花	fringe flower (Loropetalum chinense), evergreen shrub
檸	used in 檸檬|柠檬[ning2 meng2]
檸檬	lemon
檸檬水	lemonade
檸檬汁	lemon juice
檸檬烯	(chemistry) limonene
檸檬片	slice of lemon
檸檬茶	lemon tea
檸檬草	lemongrass (Cymbopogon citratus)
檸檬酸	citric acid
檸檬酸循環	citric acid cycle; Krebs cycle; tricarboxylic acid cycle
檸檬雞	lemon chicken
檸烯	(chemistry) limonene
檻	banister; balustrade; cage for animal or prisoner
檻花籠鶴	a flower in a cage, a crane in a basket (idiom); prisoner
檻車	cart with cage, used to escort prisoner
櫂	oar (archaic); scull; paddle
櫃	cupboard; cabinet; wardrobe
櫃員	teller; counter clerk
櫃員機	ATM
櫃哥	sales guy; retail associate (male)
櫃姐	sales girl; retail associate (female)
櫃子	cupboard; cabinet
櫃檯	sales counter; front desk; bar
櫌	harrow
櫓	scull (single oar worked from side to side over the stern of a boat)
櫚	palm tree
櫛	comb; to comb; to weed out
櫛孔扇貝	Farrer's scallop (Chlamys farreri), aka Chinese scallop
櫛比	lined up close (like teeth of a comb)
櫛水母	comb jellies (Ctenophora)
櫛瓜	(Tw) zucchini; courgette; baby marrow; Taiwan pr. [jie2gua1]
櫛風沐雨	lit. to comb one's hair in the wind and wash it in the rain (idiom)
櫜	weapon case
櫝	cabinet; case; casket
櫞	used in 枸櫞|枸橼[ju3 yuan2] and 香櫞|香橼[xiang1 yuan2]
櫟	oak; Quercus serrata
櫟樹	oak tree
櫠	a variety of pomelo (old)
櫥	wardrobe; closet; cabinet
櫥子	wardrobe; closet; cabinet
櫥櫃	cupboard; cupboard that can also be used as a table; sideboard
櫥窗	display window
櫧	Quercus glanca
櫨	capital (of column); smoke tree
櫪	type of oak; stable (for horses)
櫫	Zelkova acuminata
櫬	Sterculia plantanifolia; coffin
櫱枝	branch stem
櫳	(literary) window; (literary) cage for animals
櫸	Zeikowa acuminata
櫸木	beech
櫹	a type of big tree (archaic)
櫺	(bound form) a (window) lattice; latticework
櫻	cherry
櫻井	Sakurai (Japanese surname and place name)
櫻島	Sakurajima (active volcano in Kagoshima, Japan)
櫻桃	cherry
櫻桃園	The Cherry Orchard, a play by Chekhov 契訶夫|契诃夫[Qi4 he1 fu1]
櫻桃小嘴	lit. cherry mouth (idiom); fig. a delicate, ruby-lipped mouth
櫻桃番茄	cherry tomato
櫻桃蘿蔔	small red radish
櫻花	oriental cherry (Prunus serrulata or Prunus yedoensis), prized for its blossom
櫻花國	(slang) Japan
櫻花妹	(coll.) Japanese girl
櫻花草	primrose
櫽	tool used for shaping wood (old)
欀	inner lining of wooden utensils
欂	rafter
欃	sandalwood (Santalum album), a Nepalese tree producing valuable fragrant oil
欄	fence; railing; hurdle
欄位	(numeric, data) field (Tw)
欄圈	pen; animal yard
欄杆	railing; banister
欄架	hurdle
欄柵	barrier
欄目	regular column or segment (in a publication or broadcast program)
權	authority; power; right
權且	temporarily; for the time being
權位	power and position (politics)
權充	to act temporarily as
權利	right (i.e. an entitlement to sth); (classical) power and wealth
權利人	(law) rightholder; party entitled to a legal right (e.g. to property, copyright etc)
權利法案	bill of rights
權利聲明	copyright statement
權利要求	claim to rights (copyright, patent etc)
權力	power; authority
權力的遊戲	Game of Thrones (TV series)
權力紛爭	power struggle
權力鬥爭	power struggle
權勢	power; influence
權威	authority; authoritative; power and prestige
權威性	authority; authoritativeness
權宜	expedient
權宜之策	stratagem of convenience (idiom); stop-gap measure; makeshift plan
權宜之計	plan of convenience (idiom); stop-gap measure; makeshift stratagem
權慾薰心	obsessed by a craving for power; power-hungry
權時	(literary) temporarily
權杖	scepter
權柄	authority
權界	extent of one's rights; limits of one's authority
權當	to act as if; to treat sth as if it were
權益	rights; interests; rights and benefits
權能	power
權術	art of politics; political tricks (often derog.); power play
權衡	to consider; to weigh (a matter); to balance (pros and cons)
權衡利弊	to weigh the pros and cons (idiom)
權謀	trickery; tactics
權證	warrant (finance)
權變	to do whatever is expedient
權變理論	contingency theory (theory of leadership)
權貴	influential officials; bigwigs
權輿	to sprout; (fig). to begin; beginning
權遊	Game of Thrones (TV series)
權重	weight (i.e. importance attached to sth)
權鑰	keys of authority
權限	scope of authority; extent of power; (access etc) privileges
欐	beam
欑	gather
欒	Koelreuteria paniculata
欒城區	Luancheng, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
欒川縣	Luanchuan, a county in Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
欖	(bound form) olive
欖角	black olive (Canarium tramdenum)
欙	sedan
欠	to owe; to lack; (literary) to be deficient in
欠佳	suboptimal; subpar; not good enough
欠債	to owe a debt; the sum owed
欠妥	improper; inappropriate; unsatisfactory
欠安	ill (euphemism)
欠扁	annoying; infuriating; deserving of a good spanking
欠抽	(coll.) to deserve a slap in the face
欠揍	to need a spanking
欠條	IOU; certificate of indebtedness
欠款	to owe a debt; balance due; debts
欠缺	to be deficient in; lapse; deficiency
欠薪	to owe wages; back pay; wages arrears
欠費	to be in arrears; to be out of credit; amount owing
欠賬	to owe a debt; debt; obligation
欠身	to half rise out of one's chair (a polite gesture)
欠項	liabilities; debt
次	next in sequence; second; the second (day, time etc)
次一個	next one (in order)
次世代	next-generation
次之	to rank second (in terms of some attribute: size, frequency, quality etc)
次亞硫酸鈉	sodium hyposulfide Na2S2O3 (hypo)
次元	dimension (loanword, from Japanese)
次品	substandard products; defective; seconds
次大陸	subcontinent (e.g. the Indian subcontinent)
次女	second daughter
次子	second son
次官	undersecretary; secondary official
次序	sequence; order
次後	afterwards; then
次數	number of times; frequency; order number (in a series)
次文化	subculture
次方	(raised to the) nth power
次方言	subdialect
次於	second after; second only to
次日	next day; the morrow
次正裝	smart casual attire
次氯酸	hypochlorous acid HOCl (bleach)
次溴酸	hypobromous acid HOBr
次生	derivative; secondary; sub-
次生林	secondary growth of forest
次生災害	secondary disaster (e.g. epidemic following floods)
次第	order; sequence; one after another
次等	second-class; second-rate
次級	secondary
次級房屋信貸危機	subprime mortgage crisis
次級抵押貸款	subprime mortgage
次級貸款	subprime lending; abbr. to 次貸|次贷[ci4 dai4]
次經	non-canonical text; dubious classic text; Apocrypha
次聲波	infrasonic wave
次臥	secondary bedroom
次要	secondary
次貧	extremely poor but not destitute
次貨	inferior goods; substandard products
次貸	subprime lending; abbr. for 次級貸款|次级贷款[ci4 ji2 dai4 kuan3]
次貸危機	subprime mortgage crisis
次重量級	middle heavyweight (boxing etc)
次長	deputy chief
次韻	reply to a poem in the same rhyme
欣	happy
欣喜	happy
欣喜若狂	to be wild with joy (idiom)
欣幸	delighted; overjoyed
欣弗	brand name of an antibiotic injection blamed for a number of deaths in 2006
欣慰	to be gratified
欣欣向榮	(idiom) flourishing; thriving
欣然	gladly; cheerfully
欣賞	to appreciate; to enjoy; to admire
欣逢	on the happy occasion of
欨	(literary) to blow or breathe upon; happy
欬	to cough
欲	to wish for; to desire
欲仙欲死	to experience sheer ecstasy (or, when used ironically, sheer hell)
欲加之罪，何患無辭	If you want to condemn sb, don't worry about the pretext (idiom, from Zuozhuan 左傳|左传); one can always trump up a charge against sb
欲取姑與	(idiom) to make concessions for the sake of future gains
欲女	sex-crazed woman
欲念	desire
欲振乏力	to try to rouse oneself but lack the strength (idiom)
欲擒故縱	In order to capture, one must let loose.
欲求	to desire; wants; appetites
欲海	ocean of lust (Buddhist term); worldly desires
欲滴	(suffix) replete (with moisture); glistening; plump and tender
欲益反損	wishing for profit, but causing loss (idiom); good intentions that lead to disaster
欲絕	heartbroken; inconsolable
欲經	Kama Sutra
欲罷不能	want to stop but can't (idiom); to be unable to stop oneself
欲蓋彌彰	trying to hide it makes it more conspicuous (idiom); A cover up only makes matters worse.
欲言又止	to want to say sth but then hesitate
欲速則不達	(idiom) (the Analects) haste makes waste; things can't be rushed
欵	to treat well; to detain
欶	to suck; to drink
欷	to sob
欷歔	(onom.) to sob
欸	(Tw) (literary) to rebuke loudly; (Tw) (literary) to sigh
欸乃	(onom.) (literary) the creaking of a stern-mounted oar
欹	interjection
欺	to take unfair advantage of; to deceive; to cheat
欺世盜名	(idiom) to fool the world and usurp a good name
欺人太甚	(idiom) to bully intolerably
欺以其方	deceived by a pretense of reason (idiom)
欺侮	to bully
欺凌	to bully and humiliate
欺君罔上	to dupe one's sovereign
欺哄	to dupe; to deceive
欺壓	to bully; to push around
欺生	to cheat strangers; to bully strangers
欺男霸女	to oppress the people; to act tyrannically
欺瞞	to fool; to hoodwink; to dupe
欺矇	to deceive; to dupe
欺行霸市	(idiom) to dominate the market through unfair, coercive or monopolistic practices
欺詐	to cheat
欺詐者	deceiver
欺負	to bully
欺辱	to humiliate; humiliation
欺霜傲雪	(lit.) cold-resistant (idiom)
欺騙	to deceive; to cheat
欺騙餐	cheat meal
欻	suddenly; also pr. [hu1]
欼	drink
欽	to respect; to admire; to venerate
欽仰	to admire and respect
欽佩	to admire; to look up to; to respect sb greatly
欽北區	Qinbei, a district of Qinzhou City 欽州市|钦州市[Qin1 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
欽南區	Qinnan, a district of Qinzhou City 欽州市|钦州市[Qin1 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
欽命	Imperial order or edict (old)
欽奈	Chennai, capital of southeast Indian state Tamil Nadu 泰米爾納德邦|泰米尔纳德邦[Tai4 mi3 er3 Na4 de2 bang1]
欽定	to authorize; to designate
欽州市	Qinzhou, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
欽差	imperial envoy
欽挹	to admire and respect; to look up to
欽敬	to admire and respect
欽犯	criminal whose arrest has been ordered by the emperor
欽羨	to admire; to hold in high esteem
欽賜	(of an emperor) to bestow
款	section; paragraph; funds
款伏	to obey; faithfully following instructions; to admit guilt
款兒	haughty manner; proud bearing
款冬	coltsfoot (Tussilago farfara), plant in sunflower family Asteracae used a cough suppressant
款到發貨	dispatch upon receipt of payment
款子	a sum of money
款宴	to host a banquet
款式	elegant; elegance; good taste
款待	to entertain; to be hospitable to
款服	to obey; faithfully following instructions; to admit guilt
款款	leisurely; sincerely
款步	to walk slowly; with deliberate steps
款段	(literary) pony; (of a horse) walking leisurely
款項	funds; a sum of money (for a particular purpose) (CL:筆|笔[bi3])
欿	discontented with oneself
欿然	dissatisfied; discontented; lacking happiness
歁	unsatisfied (of eating)
歃	to drink
歃血	to smear one's lips with the blood of a sacrifice as a means of pledging allegiance (old)
歃血為盟	to smear the lips with blood when taking an oath (idiom)
歆	pleased; moved
歇	to rest; to take a break; to stop
歇了吧	(dialect) give me a break!; forget about it!
歇宿	to lodge; to stay (for the night)
歇山頂	(East Asian) hip-and-gable roof
歇後語	anapodoton (a saying in which the second part, uttered after a pause or totally left out, is the intended meaning of the allegory presented in the first part)
歇心	to drop the matter; to stop worrying
歇息	to have a rest; to stay for the night; to go to bed
歇手	to rest; to take a break
歇斯底里	hysteria (loanword); hysterical
歇業	to close down (temporarily or permanently); to go out of business
歇氣	to have a break; to rest
歇洛克·福爾摩斯	Sherlock Holmes
歇腳	to stop on the way for a rest
歇艎	large warship
歇菜	(dialect) to stop functioning
歇頂	to be balding; to be thinning on top
歈	songs
歉	to apologize; to regret; deficient
歉意	apology; regret
歉收	crop failure; poor harvest
歉疚	remorseful; guilt-ridden
歊	vapor; steam
歌	song (CL:首[shou3],支[zhi1]); (bound form) to sing
歌仔戲	type of opera from Taiwan and Fujian
歌兒	song
歌利亞	Goliath
歌劇	Western opera
歌劇院	opera house
歌劇院魅影	The Phantom of the Opera by Andrew Lloyd Webber
歌功頌德	to sing sb's praises (mostly derogatory)
歌台	boisterous live show held during the Ghost Festival 中元節|中元节[Zhong1 yuan2 jie2] in Singapore and other parts of Southeast Asia
歌后	diva; famous or accomplished female singer
歌吟	to sing; to recite
歌唱	to sing
歌唱家	singer
歌唱賽	song contest
歌喉	singing voice
歌單	playlist; song sheet
歌壇	singing stage; music business (esp. pop music)
歌女	female singer (archaic)
歌姬	female singer
歌子	song
歌廳	karaoke hall; singing hall (venue for concerts of popular songs)
歌德	Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749–1832), German poet and playwright
歌手	singer
歌星	singing star; famous singer
歌曲	song
歌百靈	(bird species of China) singing bush lark (Mirafra javanica)
歌碟	disc; record (music)
歌筵	a feast which also has a singing performance
歌羅西	Colossia
歌羅西書	Epistle of St Paul to the Colossians
歌聲	singing voice; fig. original voice of a poet
歌舞	singing and dancing
歌舞伎	kabuki
歌舞團	song and dance troupe
歌舞昇平	(lit.) to celebrate peace with songs and dance (idiom)
歌詞	song lyric; lyrics
歌詠	to sing
歌詩達郵輪	Costa Cruises (brand)
歌謠	folksong; ballad; nursery rhyme
歌迷	fan of a singer
歌頌	to sing the praises of; to extol; to eulogize
歐	ohm (abbr. for 歐姆|欧姆[ou1 mu3]); euro (abbr. for 歐元|欧元[ou1 yuan2])
歐了	(coll.) okay (loanword from "over")
歐亞	Europe and Asia; Eurasia
歐亞喜鵲	(bird species of China) Eurasian magpie (Pica pica)
歐亞大陸	Eurasia
歐亞紅尾鴝	(bird species of China) common redstart (Phoenicurus phoenicurus)
歐亞鴝	(bird species of China) European robin (Erithacus rubecula)
歐亞鵟	(bird species of China) common buzzard (Buteo buteo)
歐仁	Eugene (name)
歐佩克	OPEC; Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
歐元	euro (currency)
歐元區	Eurozone
歐共體	abbr. for 歐洲共同體|欧洲共同体, European Community (old term for the EU, European Union)
歐冠	UEFA Champions League
歐分	euro cent
歐包	European-style bread; (esp.) sourdough bread (abbr. for 歐洲麵包|欧洲面包[Ou1 zhou1 mian4 bao1])
歐吉桑	older man; man of mature years (Japanese loanword)
歐咪呀給	(Tw) gift given when visiting sb (esp. a local specialty brought back from one's travels, or a special product of one's own country taken overseas) (loanword from Japanese "omiyage")
歐夜鷹	(bird species of China) European nightjar (Caprimulgus europaeus)
歐姆	(loanword) ohm
歐姆蛋	(Tw) omelette
歐姆龍	Omron Corporation (Japanese electronics company)
歐安組織	Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), abbr. for 歐洲安全與合作組織|欧洲安全与合作组织[Ou1 zhou1 An1 quan2 yu3 He2 zuo4 Zu3 zhi1]
歐寶	Opel (car brand)
歐尼	(female usage) older sister (loanword from Korean "eonni")
歐巴	(female usage) older brother (loanword from Korean "oppa")
歐巴桑	older female; woman of mature years (Japanese loanword)
歐巴馬	(Tw) Barack Obama (1961–), US Democrat politician, president 2009–2017
歐幾里得	Euclid of Alexandria (c. 300 BC), Greek geometer and author of the Elements 幾何原本|几何原本[Ji3 he2 Yuan2 ben3]
歐式	in the European style; Euclidean
歐式幾何	Euclidean geometry
歐拉	Leonhard Euler (1707–1783), Swiss mathematician
歐文	Owen (name); Erwin (name); Irvine, California
歐文斯	Owens (name)
歐斑鳩	(bird species of China) European turtle dove (Streptopelia turtur)
歐柏林	Oberlin
歐柳鶯	(bird species of China) willow warbler (Phylloscopus trochilus)
歐楂	medlar (Mespilus germanica)
歐榛	common hazel (tree) (Corylus avellana)
歐歌鶇	(bird species of China) song thrush (Turdus philomelos)
歐氏	Euclid; abbr. for 歐幾里得|欧几里得
歐氏幾何	Euclidean geometry
歐氣	(Internet slang) very good luck (esp. in games)
歐泊	opal (Sanskrit: upala)
歐洲	Europe (abbr. for 歐羅巴洲|欧罗巴洲[Ou1 luo2 ba1 Zhou1])
歐洲中央銀行	European Central Bank
歐洲之星	Eurostar (train line)
歐洲人	European (person)
歐洲共同市場	European common market (old term for EU, European Union)
歐洲共同體	European Community, old term for EU, European Union 歐盟|欧盟[Ou1 meng2]
歐洲刑警組織	Europol (European Police Office)
歐洲大陸	continent of Europe
歐洲安全和合作組織	Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)
歐洲安全與合作組織	Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)
歐洲山楊	European poplar (Populus tremula)
歐洲杯	European Cup (e.g. soccer)
歐洲核子中心	European Organization for Nuclear Research CERN, at Geneva
歐洲核子研究中心	European Organization for Nuclear Research CERN, at Geneva
歐洲歌唱大賽	Eurovision Song Contest
歐洲法院	European Court of Justice
歐洲理事會	European Council
歐洲聯盟	European Union (EU)
歐洲自由貿易聯盟	European Free Trade Association
歐洲航天局	European Space Agency (ESA)
歐洲議會	European Parliament
歐洲防風	parsnip (Pastinaca sativa)
歐派	(ACG) breasts (loanword from Japanese "oppai")
歐當歸	(botany) lovage; Levisticum officinale
歐盟	European Union; EU
歐盟委員會	Commission of European Union
歐石鴴	(bird species of China) Eurasian stone-curlew (Burhinus oedicnemus)
歐米伽	omega (Greek letter Ω, ω); also pr. [ou1mi3jia1]
歐米茄錶公司	Omega SA, Swiss luxury watchmaker
歐羅巴	Europe; Europa
歐羅巴洲	Europe; abbr. to 歐洲|欧洲[Ou1 zhou1]
歐美	Europe and America; the West
歐胡島	Oʻahu, third-largest and most populated island of the Hawaiian archipelago
歐芹	parsley (Petroselinum sativum)
歐若拉	Aurora, Roman goddess of dawn
歐萊雅	L'Oréal (French cosmetics company)
歐蒔蘿	cumin (Cuminum cyminum)
歐蕾	(loanword) au lait; with milk
歐蝶魚	plaice
歐豬	(economics) (derog.) PIGS (Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain)
歐買嘎	(loanword) oh my God!
歐車前	psyllium (genus Plantago)
歐里庇得斯	Euripides (c. 480-406 BC), Greek tragedian, author of Medea, Trojan Women etc
歐金斑鴴	(bird species of China) European golden plover (Pluvialis apricaria)
歐金翅雀	(bird species of China) European greenfinch (Chloris chloris)
歐陸	continental Europe
歐陽	two-character surname Ouyang
歐陽予倩	Ouyang Yuqian (1889-1962), Chinese actor
歐陽修	Ouyang Xiu (1007-1072), Northern Song dynasty prose writer and historian
歐陽詢	Ouyang Xun (557-641), one of Four Great Calligraphers of early Tang 唐初四大家[Tang2 chu1 Si4 Da4 jia1]
歐鴿	(bird species of China) stock dove (Columba oenas)
歔	to snort
歙	used in 歙縣|歙县[She4 Xian4] (the name of a place in Anhui)
歙縣	She County or Shexian, a county in Huangshan City 黃山市|黄山市[Huang2 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
歛	to desire; to give
歜	(person); angry
歟	(literary) (final particle similar to 嗎|吗[ma5], 呢[ne5] or 啊[a1])
歠	(literary) to drink; to sip; gruel
歡	joyous; happy; pleased
歡勢	lively; full of vigor; vibrant
歡呼	to cheer for; to acclaim
歡呼雀躍	cheering excitedly (idiom); jubilant
歡喜	happy; joyous; delighted
歡喜冤家	quarrelsome but loving couple
歡天喜地	delighted; with great joy; in high spirits
歡娛	to amuse; to divert; happy
歡宴	feast; celebration
歡容	happy; joyous
歡實	lively; full of vigor; vibrant
歡度	to merrily spend (an occasion); to celebrate
歡心	favor; liking; love
歡快	cheerful and lighthearted; lively
歡忭	(literary) happy; delighted
歡悅	happiness; joy; to be happy
歡愉	happy; joyous; delighted
歡慶	to celebrate
歡暢	happy; cheerful; jubilant
歡樂	gaiety; gladness; glee
歡樂時光	happy time; happy hour (in bars etc)
歡欣	elated
歡欣雀躍	elated; overjoyed
歡欣鼓舞	(idiom) elated and excited; overjoyed
歡歡喜喜	happily
歡笑	to laugh happily; a belly-laugh
歡聚	to get together socially; to celebrate; party
歡聚一堂	to gather happily under one roof
歡聲	cheers; cries of joy or approval
歡聲笑語	cheers and laughter
歡蹦亂跳	glowing with health and vivacity (idiom)
歡迎	to welcome; welcome
歡迎光臨	Welcome! (used by staff to greet customers when they enter a shop or restaurant)
歡送	to see off; to send off
歡送會	farewell party
歡騰	jubilation; great celebration
止	to stop; to prohibit; until
止咳	to suppress coughing
止咳糖漿	cough suppressant syrup; cough mixture
止境	limit; boundary; end
止息	to cease; to end
止損	(finance) stop-loss
止損單	stop-loss order (finance)
止損點	(finance) stop-loss point (price at which one resolves to sell a security at a loss in order to avoid the possibility of having to sell later at an even lower price)
止歇	to stop; to cease
止步	to halt; to stop; to go no farther
止汗劑	anti-perspirant
止滑	to prevent slipping; anti-slip
止疼片	painkiller; analgesic
止痛	to relieve pain; to stop pain; analgesic
止痛劑	an analgesic; pain killer
止痛法	method of relieving pain
止痛片	painkiller
止痛藥	painkiller; analgesic; anodyne
止血	to staunch (bleeding); hemostatic (drug)
止血墊	dressing; pad to stop bleeding
止血栓	plug to stop bleeding; tampon (medicine)
止血貼	Band-Aid; plaster
止鬧按鈕	snooze button
止點	(mechanical engineering) dead point; dead center
正	first month of the lunar year
正丁醚	butyl ether
正中	middle; center; right in the middle or center
正中下懷	exactly what one wants
正中要害	to hit the nail on the head (idiom)
正主	central figure; rightful owner; (slang) idol of a fan
正事	one's proper business
正交	orthogonality
正交群	orthogonal group (math.)
正人	upstanding person; upright person
正人君子	upright gentleman; man of honor
正倉院	Shōsō-in, a timber structure in Nara, Japan, built to house hundreds of artifacts bequeathed to the Tōdai-ji temple by the Japanese emperor Shōmu, who died in 756
正值	just at the time of; honest; upright
正傳	main subject of long novel; true biography
正兒八板	earnest; authentic
正兒八經	serious; earnest; real
正六邊形	regular hexagon
正切	(math.) tangent (trigonometric function)
正則	regular (figure in geometry)
正則表達式	regular expression (computing)
正副駕駛	pilot and copilot
正割	secant (of angle), written sec θ
正劇	bourgeois tragedy
正化	normalization; to normalize
正午	midday; noon; noonday
正半軸	positive semiaxis (in coordinate geometry)
正反	positive and negative; pros and cons; inside and outside
正反兩面	two-way; reversible; both sides of the coin
正反饋	positive feedback
正史	the 24 or 25 official dynastic histories
正名	to replace the current name or title of sth with a new one that reflects its true nature
正向	forward (direction); positive (thinking, mood, values etc)
正向力	normal force (physics)
正品	certified goods; quality product; normal product
正在	to be in the process of (doing sth); to be currently ...-ing
正型標本	holotype
正外部性	positive influence, effect that people's doings or behavior have on others (society)
正多胞形	convex polytope
正多面體	regular polyhedron
正大光明	just and honorable
正太	young, cute boy
正太控	shotacon (Japanese loanword)
正好	just (in time); just right; just enough
正如	just as; precisely as
正妹	(Tw) beautiful woman; sexy woman
正妻	primary wife (in contrast to concubine); legal wife
正子	positron; also called 正電子|正电子[zheng4 dian4 zi3]
正字	to correct an erroneously written character
正字法	orthography
正字通	Zhengzitong, Chinese character dictionary with 33,549 entries, edited by Ming scholar Zhang Zilie 張自烈|张自烈[Zhang1 Zi4 lie4] in 17th century
正安縣	Zheng'an, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
正宗	orthodox school; fig. traditional; old school
正定縣	Zhengding, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
正室	primary wife (in contrast to concubine); legal wife
正宮娘娘	empress
正寧縣	Zhengning, a county in Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
正對	directly facing
正巧	just by chance; to happen to (just at the right time); opportune
正常	normal; regular
正常化	normalization (of diplomatic relations etc)
正常工作	normal operation; proper functioning
正常成本	normal cost (accountancy)
正常菌群	microbiome; microbiota
正式	formal; official
正式投票	formal vote
正弦	(math.) sine
正弦定理	law of sines
正弦形	sinusoidal (shaped like a sine wave)
正弦波	sine wave; simple harmonic vibration
正德	Zhengde Emperor, reign name of eleventh Ming emperor Zhu Houzhao 朱厚照[Zhu1 Hou4 zhao4] (1491-1521), reigned 1505-1521, temple name 明武宗[Ming2 Wu3 zong1]
正念	correct mindfulness (Buddhism)
正意	sense (in DNA)
正態分布	(math.) normal distribution; Gaussian distribution
正房	central building (in a traditional house); primary wife
正投影	orthogonal projection
正教	lit. true religion; orthodox religion; orthodox Christianity
正教真詮	Exegesis of the Right Religion by Wang Daiyu 王岱輿|王岱舆[Wang2 Dai4 yu2], a study of Islam published during the Ming dynasty
正整數	positive integer
正數	positive number
正文	main text (as opposed to footnotes); main body (of a book)
正斷層	normal fault (geology)
正方	the side in favor of the proposition (in a formal debate)
正方向	forward direction; (math.) positive direction
正方形	square
正方體	a rectangular parallelepiped
正日	the day (of a festival, ceremony etc)
正旦	starring female role in a Chinese opera
正是	is precisely
正時	timing (of an engine)
正書	regular script (Chinese calligraphic style)
正月	first month of the lunar year
正月初一	New Year's Day in the lunar calendar
正朔	first day of the first lunar month
正本	original (of a document); reserved copy (of a library book)
正業	one's regular job
正極	positive electrode; positive pole; anode
正楷	regular script (Chinese calligraphic style)
正模標本	holotype
正正	neat; orderly; just in time
正步	goose-step (for military parades)
正步走	to march at parade step; March! (military command)
正殿	main hall of a Buddhist temple
正比	direct ratio; directly proportional
正比例	direct proportionality
正氣	healthy atmosphere; moral spirit; unyielding integrity; probity
正法	to execute; the law
正派	(of a person) upright; respectable; decent
正港	(Tw) (slang) authentic; genuine (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [tsiànn-káng])
正無窮	(math.) positive infinity
正然	in the process of (doing something or happening); while (doing)
正版	genuine; legal
正牌	officially recognized; genuine; legitimate
正生	starring male role in a Chinese opera
正用	correct usage
正當	timely; just (when needed)
正當中	dead center; the very middle
正當年	to be in the prime of life
正當性	(political) legitimacy
正當時	the right time for sth; the right season (for planting cabbage)
正當理由	proper reason; reasonable grounds
正當防衛	reasonable self-defense; legitimate defense
正畸	orthodontics
正直	upright; upstanding; honest
正相關	positive correlation
正眼	facing directly (with one's eyes); (to look sb) in the eyes
正確	correct; sound; right; proper
正祖	Jeonjo (1752-1800), 22nd king of Korean Joseon dynasty
正統	Zhengtong Emperor, reign name of sixth Ming Emperor Zhu Qizhen 朱祁鎮|朱祁镇[Zhu1 Qi2 zhen4] (1427-1464), reigned 1435-1449, temple name Yingzong 英宗[Ying1 zong1]
正經	decent; honorable; proper
正經事	an important matter (sth work-related or productive etc)
正經八百	very serious; solemn
正義	justice; righteousness; just; righteous
正義鬥爭	righteous struggle
正義魔人	(Tw) sanctimonious person; self-appointed moral arbiter
正義黨	Justicialist Party
正職	main job; day job
正能量	positive energy; positivity
正腳鞋	shoe that can be worn on either foot
正臉	a person's face as seen from the front
正色	stern; grim; resolute
正著	head-on; red-handed
正藍旗	Plain Blue banner or Shuluun Höh khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
正蘭旗	Plain Blue banner or Shuluun Höh khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
正號	(math.) plus sign (+)
正裝	formal dress
正襟危坐	to sit upright and still (idiom)
正要	to be just about to; to be on the point of
正規	regular; according to standards
正規教育	regular education
正規軍	regular army; standing army
正視	to face squarely; to meet head on; to face up to
正角	good guy (in a story); hero
正解	right solution; correct understanding
正言厲色	solemn in word and countenance (idiom); strict and unsmiling
正詞法	orthography (linguistics)
正誤	true or false?; correct or incorrect
正誤表	corrigenda
正象	to be just like
正負	positive and negative
正負號	(math.) plus or minus sign; ±
正負電子	positrons and electrons
正路	(lit. and fig.) the right way; the correct path; the proper course
正軌	the right track
正逢其時	to come at the right time; to be opportune
正道	the correct path; the right way (Buddhism)
正邪	opposition between vital energy 正氣|正气[zheng4 qi4] and pathogeny 邪氣|邪气[xie2 qi4] (TCM)
正邪相爭	term in TCM describing the progress of disease as an opposition between vital energy 正氣|正气[zheng4 qi4] and pathogeny 邪氣|邪气[xie2 qi4]
正鋒	(calligraphy) technique in which the shaft of the brush is kept upright, so that the tip of the brush runs along the center of the stroke (cf. 側鋒|侧锋[ce4 feng1] and 偏鋒|偏锋[pian1 feng1])
正鑲白旗	Plain and Bordered White banner or Shuluun Hövööt Chagaan khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
正長石	orthoclase KAlSi3O8 (rock-forming mineral, type of feldspar)
正門	main entrance; main gate; portal
正陽縣	Zhengyang, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
正離子	positive ion; cation (physics)
正電	positive charge (electricity)
正電子	positron (antiparticle of the electron)
正電子照射斷層攝影	positrion emission tomography (PET)
正電子發射層析	positron emission tomography (PET)
正電子發射斷層照相術	positron emission tomography (PET)
正面	front; obverse side; right side
正音	standard pronunciation; to correct sb's pronunciation
正題	main topic; matter at hand
正顏厲色	solemn in countenance (idiom); strict and unsmiling
正餐	(regular) meal; full meal; main course
正駕駛	pilot-in-command; captain (cf. 副駕駛|副驾驶[fu4 jia4 shi3], copilot)
正骨	bonesetting; Chinese osteopathy
正骨八法	the eight methods of bonesetting; Chinese osteopathy
正體	standard form (of a Chinese character)
正體字	standard form of a Chinese character
正點	(of a train etc) on time; punctual; (slang) awesome; (Tw) on the hour
此	this; these
此一時，彼一時	that was then, this is now; times have changed
此事	this matter
此刻	this moment; now; at present
此前	before this; before then; previously
此地	here; this place
此地無銀三百兩	lit. 300 silver taels not hidden here (idiom); fig. to reveal what one intends to hide
此外	besides; in addition; moreover; furthermore
此後	after this; afterwards; hereafter
此時	now; this moment
此時此刻	at this very moment
此時此地	here and now; as things stand
此次	this time
此消彼長	(idiom) one declines while the other flourishes; one loses out when the other one gains (as in a trade-off or a zero-sum game)
此致	(used at the end of a letter to introduce a polite salutation)
此致敬禮	respectfully yours (at the end of a letter)
此處	this place; here (literary)
此行	this trip
此言非虛	that is true
此話怎講	How do you mean?; How could that be the case?; How so?
此起彼伏	up here, down there (idiom); to rise and fall in succession
此起彼落	to rise and fall in succession (idiom); repeating continuously
此路不通	this road is blocked; fig. This method does not work.
此道	such matters; things like this; this line of work
此間	here; this place
此際	then; as a result
此類	this kind; these kinds; such
步	a step; a pace; walk
步人後塵	to follow in other people's footsteps
步伐	pace; (measured) step; march
步入	to step into; to enter
步兵	infantry; foot; infantryman
步哨	sentry; sentinel
步子	step; pace
步子太大，容易扯著蛋	if you take too big a stride, you could easily rip your balls (catchphrase) (line spoken by actor 葛優|葛优[Ge3 You1] in the 2010 action comedy movie 讓子彈飛|让子弹飞[Rang4 Zi3 dan4 Fei1])
步履	gait; to walk
步履維艱	to have difficulty walking (idiom); to walk with difficulty
步履蹣跚	(idiom) to walk unsteadily; to hobble along
步態	gait; tread
步態蹣跚	to walk unsteadily
步搖	dangling ornament worn by women
步操	foot drill (military, physical exercises etc)
步月	to stroll beneath the moon
步槍	rifle
步步	step by step; at every step
步步為營	to advance gradually and entrench oneself at every step
步步高陞	to climb step by step; to rise steadily; on the up and up
步武	to walk in someone's steps
步法	footwork
步測	pacing
步犁	walking plow
步登公寓	(Tw) walk-up apartment (postwar building style with stair access and no elevator)
步罡踏斗	to worship the astral deities (idiom, refers to Daoist astrology)
步行	to go on foot; to walk
步行區	pedestrian area
步行者	pedestrian
步行蟲	ground beetle
步行街	car-free zone; pedestrian street
步話機	walkie-talkie
步調	gait; marching order; step
步調一致	to be united in action
步足	ambulatory leg (of a crab, lobster, spider etc)
步輦	(literary) palanquin; sedan chair; (literary) to ride in a palanquin
步進制	step by step system
步進馬達	stepper motor
步道	walking path; pathway
步韻	to write a poem using another poem's rhymes
步驟	procedure; step
武	martial; military
武丁	Wu Ding (c. 1250–1192 BC), Shang dynasty king known from oracle bone inscriptions
武仙座	Hercules (constellation)
武侯區	Wuhou, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
武侯祠	temple dedicated to the memory of Zhuge Liang 諸葛亮|诸葛亮[Zhu1 ge3 Liang4] (There is one in Chengdu, and many others in various parts of China.)
武俠	martial arts chivalry (Chinese literary, theatrical and cinema genre)
武俠小說	a martial arts (wuxia) novel
武則天	Wu Zetian (624-705), Tang empress, reigned 690-705
武力	military force
武功	martial art; military accomplishments
武功山	Mt Wugong in Jiangxi
武功縣	Wugong, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
武勇	military skills; valor; valorous
武勝縣	Wusheng, a county in Guang'an City 廣安市|广安市[Guang3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
武器	weapon; arms
武器禁運	embargo on arms sale
武器系統	weapon system
武器級	weapons-grade
武城縣	Wucheng, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
武壇	martial arts circles
武士	warrior; samurai
武士刀	katana
武士彠	Wu Shihuo (7th century), father of Tang empress Wu Zetian 武則天|武则天
武士道	bushidō or way of the warrior, samurai code of chivalry
武夷山	Mt Wuyi in Fujian; Wuyishan National Nature Reserve
武夷山市	Wuyishan, a county-level city in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
武威市	Wuwei, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
武安市	Wu'an, a county-level city in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
武官	military official; military attaché
武定	Wuding reign name (543–550) during Eastern Wei of the Northern Dynasties 東魏|东魏[Dong1 Wei4]
武定縣	Wuding, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
武宣縣	Wuxuan, a county in Laibin City 來賓市|来宾市[Lai2 bin1 Shi4], Guangxi
武寧縣	Wuning, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
武將	general; military leader; fierce man
武山縣	Wushan, a county in Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
武山雞	black-boned chicken; silky fowl; silkie
武岡市	Wugang, a county-level city in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
武川縣	Wuchuan, a county in Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
武平縣	Wuping, a county in Longyan City 龍巖市|龙岩市[Long2 yan2 Shi4], Fujian
武庫	arsenal; store of arms
武強縣	Wuqiang, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
武德	ethics (in the military or the martial arts)
武打	acrobatic fighting in Chinese opera or dance
武打片	action movie; kungfu movie
武指	stunt coordinator (abbr. for 武術指導|武术指导[wu3 shu4 zhi3 dao3])
武斷	arbitrary; subjective; dogmatic
武旦	female military role in a Chinese opera
武昌區	Wuchang, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
武昌起義	Wuchang Uprising of October 10th, 1911, which led to Sun Yat-sen's Xinhai Revolution and the fall of the Qing dynasty
武松	Wu Song, a heroic outlaw of Liangshan Marsh in the classic novel Water Margin 水滸傳|水浒传[Shui3 hu3 Zhuan4], whose exploits include killing a tiger with his bare hands
武林	martial arts (social) circles
武水	the Wu river in Hunan and Guangdong; formerly Shuang river 瀧水|泷水
武江區	Wujiang, a district of Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
武清	Wuqing rural district in Tianjin 天津[Tian1 jin1]
武清區	Wuqing rural district in Tianjin 天津[Tian1 jin1]
武溪	Wu river in Hunan and Guangdong; formerly Shuang river 瀧水|泷水
武漢大學	Wuhan University
武漢市	Wuhan, sub-provincial city and capital of Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
武漢鋼鐵公司	Wuhan Iron and Steel
武王伐紂	King Wu of Zhou 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2] overthrows tyrant Zhou of Shang 商紂王|商纣王[Shang1 Zhou4 wang2]
武生	male military role in a Chinese opera
武田	Takeda (Japanese surname)
武略	military strategy
武當山	Wudang Mountain range in northwest Hubei
武直	attack helicopter (abbr. for 武裝直升機|武装直升机[wu3 zhuang1 zhi2 sheng1 ji1])
武穴市	Wuxue, a county-level city in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
武統	to unify by using military force (usu. in relation to Taiwan)
武經七書	Seven Military Classics of ancient China viz "Six Secret Strategic Teachings" 六韜|六韬[Liu4 tao1], "Methods of Sima" 司馬法|司马法[Si1 ma3 Fa3], "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3], "Wuzi" 吳子|吴子[Wu2 zi3], "Wei Liaozi" 尉繚子|尉缭子[Wei4 Liao2 zi5], "Three Strategies of Huang Shigong" 黃石公三略|黄石公三略[Huang2 Shi2 gong1 San1 lu:e4] and "Duke Li of Wei Answering Emperor Taizong of Tang" 唐太宗李衛公問對|唐太宗李卫公问对[Tang2 Tai4 zong1 Li3 Wei4 Gong1 Wen4 dui4]
武經總要	"Collection of the Most Important Military Techniques", book published in 1044 during the Northern Song Dynasty
武義縣	Wuyi, a county in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
武聖	the Saint of War (i.e. the deified Guan Yu 關羽|关羽[Guan1 Yu3])
武職	military official; military position (i.e. job)
武舉	successful military candidate in the imperial provincial examination
武藝	martial art; military skill
武藝高強	highly skilled in martial arts
武術	military skill or technique (in former times)
武裝	arms; equipment; to arm
武裝分子	armed fighter; gunman
武裝力量	armed force
武裝衝突	armed conflict
武裝部隊	armed forces
武警	armed police
武警戰士	armed fighters; armed police; militia
武警部隊	People's Armed Police
武進區	Wujin, a district of Changzhou City 常州市[Chang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
武邑縣	Wuyi, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
武都區	Wudu, a district of Longnan City 隴南市|陇南市[Long3 nan2 Shi4], Gansu
武都市	Wudu city in Gansu
武鄉縣	Wuxiang, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
武陟縣	Wuzhi, a county in Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
武陵區	Wuling, a district of Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
武陵源	Wulingyuan scenic area, in Zhangjiajie city 張家界市|张家界市[Zhang1 jia1 jie4 shi4], Hunan
武隆區	Wulong, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
武館	martial arts school
武鳴區	Wuming, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
歧	divergent; side road
歧異	difference; discrepancy
歧義	ambiguity; several possible meanings
歧見	disagreement; differing interpretations
歧視	to discriminate against; discrimination
歧路	divergent path; (fig.) wrong path
歧路燈	Lamp in the Side Street, novel by Qing dynasty writer Li Lüyuan 李綠園|李绿园[Li3 Lu:4 yuan2]
歧途	fork in a road; wrong road
歪	askew; at a crooked angle; devious
歪嘴	twisted mouth; wry mouth
歪打正著	to succeed by a lucky stroke
歪斜	crooked; askew; oblique
歪曲	to distort; to misrepresent
歪果仁	(slang) foreigner (pun on 外國人|外国人[wai4 guo2 ren2])
歪歪扭扭	crooked; askew
歪歪斜斜	shuddering; trembling; a trembling scrawl (of handwriting)
歪理	fallacious reasoning; preposterous argument
歪瓜裂棗	ugly; repulsive
歪門邪道	dishonest practices
歪風	unhealthy trend; noxious influence
歪風邪氣	noxious winds, evil influences (idiom); malignant social trends
歪點子	illegal device; devious; crooked
歲	classifier for years (of age); year; year (of crop harvests)
歲不我與	Time and tide wait for no man (idiom)
歲修	annual repairs and maintenance
歲俸	annual salary
歲入	annual revenue; annual income
歲出	annual expenditure
歲初	(literary) beginning of the year
歲差	(astronomy) precession
歲序	succession of seasons
歲數	age (number of years old)
歲時	season; time of the year
歲暮	end of the year
歲月	years; time
歲月如梭	time flies (idiom)
歲月如流	the passage of the years; the flow of time
歲月崢嶸	eventful years; momentous times
歲月流逝	as time goes by (idiom)
歲末	end of the year
歲歲平安	May you have peace year after year (New Year's greeting)
歲計	annual budget
歲計餘絀	annual budgetary surplus or deficit (accountancy)
歲闌	late season of a year
歲靜	(neologism) (slang) person who willfully ignores societal problems while maintaining a facade of blissful normalcy (derived from 歲月靜好|岁月静好[sui4 yue4 jing4 hao3], "it is a time of peace and harmony")
歲首	start of the year
歷	to experience; to undergo; to pass through
歷下區	Lixia, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
歷久彌堅	to become more resolute with the passing of time (idiom)
歷久彌新	lit. long in existence but ever new (idiom); fig. timeless; unfading
歷代	successive generations; successive dynasties; past dynasties
歷代志上	First book of Chronicles
歷代志下	Second book of Chronicles
歷任	(of one person) to hold the successive posts of
歷來	always; throughout (a period of time); (of) all-time
歷史	history
歷史上	historical; in history
歷史事件	historical incident
歷史人物	historical person
歷史劇	historical drama
歷史博物館	historical museum
歷史唯物主義	historical materialism (Marx's theory of history)
歷史學	history
歷史學家	historian
歷史家	historian
歷史性	historic
歷史悠久	long-established; time-honored
歷史意義	historic significance
歷史成本	historic cost (accounting)
歷史新高	all-time high
歷史時期	historical period
歷史沿革	historical development; background
歷史版本	historical version; a previous version (of an app, document etc)
歷史背景	historical background
歷史觀點	historical standpoint
歷史遺產	heritage; historical legacy
歷史遺跡	historic site
歷史重演	history repeats itself
歷城區	Licheng, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
歷屆	all previous (meetings, sessions etc)
歷年	over the years; bygone years
歷數	to enumerate; to count (one by one)
歷時	to last; to take (time); period
歷朝通俗演義	Dramatized history of successive dynasties (from Han to Republican China) by Cai Dongfan 蔡東藩|蔡东藩
歷次	each (item in sequence); successive
歷歷可數	each one distinguishable
歷歷在目	vivid in one's mind (idiom)
歷盡	to have experienced a lot of; to have been through
歷盡滄桑	to have been through the hardships of life
歷程	course; process
歷經	to experience; to go through
歷練	to learn through experience; experience; practiced
歷險	to experience adventures
歸	to return; to go back to; to give back to
歸仁	Gueiren, a district in Tainan 台南|台南[Tai2 nan2], Taiwan
歸位	to put sth back where it belongs; to return to the original position
歸併	to put together; to add; to merge
歸來	to return; to come back
歸依	to convert to (a religion); to rely upon; refuge
歸僑	Chinese person who returns to China after living as an expatriate
歸入	to assign (to a class); to classify as; to include
歸公	to commandeer; to take over for the state
歸功	to give credit; to give sb his due; attribution
歸化	old name for district of Hohhot city 呼和浩特[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4], Inner Mongolia
歸口	to return to one's original trade
歸向	to turn toward
歸咎	to put the blame on; to accuse
歸因	to attribute; to ascribe
歸因理論	attribution theory (psychology)
歸國	to go home (to one's native country); to return from abroad
歸天	to die
歸宿	place to return to; home; final destination
歸寧	(literary) (of a married woman) to visit one's parents
歸屬	to belong to; to be affiliated to; to fall under the jurisdiction of
歸屬感	sense of belonging
歸屬權	right of attribution
歸心	converted to (religion)
歸心似箭	with one's heart set on speeding home (idiom)
歸攏	to gather; to rake together; to pile up
歸於	to belong to; affiliated to; to result in sth
歸期	one's return date
歸根	to return home (after a lifetime's absence); to go back to one's roots
歸根到底	after all; in the final analysis; ultimately
歸根究底	(idiom) in the final analysis
歸根結底	in the final analysis; ultimately
歸根結蒂	ultimately; in the final analysis; after all
歸案	to bring to justice; to file away (a document)
歸檔	to file away; to place on file
歸正	to return to the right path; to mend one's ways; to reform
歸牧	to return from pasture
歸省	to go home for a visit; to return to one's parents' home to pay respects
歸真	to die (Buddhism); to return to Allah (Islam)
歸程	return trip; homeward journey
歸納	to sum up; to summarize; to conclude from facts
歸納推理	inductive reasoning
歸納法	induction (method of deduction in logic)
歸結	to sum up; to conclude; to put in a nutshell
歸綏	old name for Hohhot city 呼和浩特[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4], Inner Mongolia
歸經	channel tropism (TCM)
歸罪	to blame sb
歸置	(coll.) to put (things) back; to tidy up; to put in order
歸西	to die (euphemism, lit. to return West or to the Western Paradise)
歸謬法	reductio ad absurdum; arguing by contradiction; also called 反證法|反证法
歸路	the way back; return route
歸途	the way back; one's journey home
歸還	to return sth; to revert
歸附	to realign one's allegiance (to another religion, ruler etc)
歸除	long division; calculation on the abacus
歸隊	to return to one's unit; to go back to one's station in life
歸隱	to go back to one's native place and live in seclusion
歸零	to reset to zero
歸零地	Ground Zero
歸順	to surrender and pay allegiance to
歸類	to classify; to categorize
歹	bad; wicked; evil
歹人	bad person; evildoer; robber
歹勢	(Tw) excuse me; to be sorry (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [pháinn-sè])
歹命	(Tw) to have been dealt a hard lot in life (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [pháinn-miā])
歹徒	evildoer; malefactor; gangster
歹意	evil intent; malice
歹毒	vicious; ruthless; malevolent
歺	second-round simplified character for 餐[can1]
死	to die; impassable; uncrossable
死不了	Portulaca Sundial (a type of plant)
死不改悔	not to repent even facing death (idiom); unrepentant; very obstinate
死不瞑目	lit. not close one's eyes after dying (idiom)
死不要臉	to know no shame; to be totally shameless
死中求生	to seek life in death (idiom); to fight for one's life
死乞白賴	to pester someone again and again
死了張屠夫，不吃混毛豬	lit. just because Zhang the butcher dies, doesn't mean we'll have to eat pork mixed with bristles (idiom)
死亡	to die; death
死亡人數	number of people killed; death toll
死亡率	mortality rate
死亡筆記	Death note (Japanese: デスノート), translation of cult manga series by author ŌBA Tsugumi 大場鶇|大场鸫[Da4 chang3 Dong1] (pen-name) and illustrator OBATA Takeshi 小畑健[Xiao3 tian2 Jian4]
死人	dead person; (coll.) to die; (of a death) to happen
死人不管	(coll.) to wash one's hands of a matter
死仗	to fight bitterly; hard struggle
死信	lost letter; letter containing news of sb's death
死傷	casualties; dead and injured
死傷者	casualty (of an accident); dead and wounded
死刑	death penalty; capital punishment
死刑緩期執行	deferred death sentence; abbr. to 死緩|死缓[si3 huan3]
死別	to be parted by death
死到臨頭	Death is near at hand. (idiom)
死勁	all one's strength; with might and main
死區	dead zone; blind spot
死去	to die
死去活來	to hover between life and death (idiom); to suffer terribly
死命	doom; death; desperately
死囚	prisoner that awaits execution; convict sentenced to death
死因	cause of death
死因不明	unknown cause of death
死城	ghost town
死士	person willing to sacrifice his life (for a good cause)
死宅	die-hard otaku (sb who hardly ever emerges from their home, where they play games, watch movies etc)
死守	to defend one's property to the death
死定	to be screwed; to be toast
死寂	deathly stillness
死對頭	arch-enemy; sworn enemy
死局	hopeless situation; deadlock
死屍	corpse; dead body
死巷	blind alley; dead end
死後	after death; posthumous
死循環	endless loop
死心	to give up; to admit failure; to drop the matter
死心塌地	to be hell-bent on; dead set on sth; unswerving
死心眼兒	stubborn; obstinate; having a one-track mind
死忠	die-hard (fan etc)
死戰	to fight to the death
死掉	to die
死敵	mortal enemy; arch-enemy
死文字	dead language; indecipherable script
死於非命	violent death (idiom); to die in a disaster; an unnatural death
死有餘辜	(idiom) to be so evil that even death would be insufficient punishment
死期	time of death; limited to a fixed period of time; fixed term
死板	rigid; inflexible
死棋	dead piece (in Chess); stupid move; hopeless case
死機	to crash (of a computer)
死死	rigid; unwavering; unbendable
死氣沉沉	dead atmosphere; lifeless; spiritless
死水	stagnant water; backwater
死活	life or death; fate; no matter what
死海	the Dead Sea
死海古卷	Dead Sea Scrolls
死海經卷	Dead Sea Scrolls
死火山	extinct volcano
死灰復燃	lit. ashes burn once more (idiom); fig. sb lost returns to have influence
死無對證	the dead cannot testify (idiom); dead men tell no tales
死無葬身之地	to die without a burial site; to die a pauper; a tragic end
死球	(ball sports) dead ball
死生	life or death; critical (event)
死產	stillbirth
死當	to flunk (Tw); (computing) to crash; to stop working
死症	incurable disease; terminal illness
死皮	dead skin
死皮賴臉	brazen faced (idiom); shameless
死硬	stiff; rigid; obstinate
死磕	(coll.) to fight to the death
死神	mythological figure (such as the Grim Reaper) in charge of taking the souls of those who die
死穴	lethal point (acupuncture); vulnerable spot; Achilles' heel
死節	to die or be martyred for a noble cause; to be faithful unto death
死結	tight knot; intractable problem
死結難解	enigmatic knot hard to untie (idiom); thorny problem
死絕	to die out; to be exterminated; to become extinct
死線	deadline (loanword)
死緩	deferred death sentence
死纏爛打	(coll.) to pester; to harass
死罪	capital offense; crime punishable by death; my deepest apologies
死翹翹	to die; to drop dead
死者	the dead; the deceased
死而不僵	dead but showing no signs of rigor mortis; to die hard (idiom)
死而後已	until death puts an end (idiom); one's whole life
死而復活	to come back to life (after death)
死而復生	(idiom) to come back to life (after death)
死而無悔	to die without regret (idiom, from Analects)
死背	to learn by rote
死胡同	dead end; blind alley
死藤水	ayahuasca
死裡逃生	mortal danger, escape alive (idiom); a narrow escape
死要面子	to regard face as all-important; to consider loss of face unthinkable
死要面子活受罪	to go through hell for the sake of keeping up appearances (idiom)
死角	gap in coverage; gap in protection or defenses
死訊	news of sb's death
死記	to learn by rote; to cram
死記硬背	to learn by rote; to mechanically memorize
死豬不怕開水燙	(lit.) a dead pig doesn't fear scalding water (saying)
死賬	dormant bank account
死路	dead end; (fig.) the road to disaster
死路一條	(idiom) dead end; road to ruin
死鎖	deadlock (computing)
死難	to die in an accident; to die for a just cause
死難者	victim of an accident; casualty; martyr for one's country
死頑固	very stubborn; very stubborn person; die-hard
死飛	fixie; fixed-gear bicycle
死馬當活馬醫	lit. to give medicine to a dead horse (idiom)
死鬼	devil (used jocularly or contemptuously); the departed
死麵	unleavened dough
死黨	best friends; inseparable sidekick; diehard followers
歾	to end; to die
歿	to end; to die
殀	(bound form) to die prematurely (also pr. [yao3]) (variant of 夭[yao1])
殂	to die
殃	calamity
殃及	to bring disaster to
殄	to exterminate
殆	(literary) dangerous; perilous; (literary) almost; well-nigh
殆盡	almost exhausted; nearly depleted; practically nothing left
殈	damage egg so it does not hatch
殉	to be buried with the dead; to die for a cause
殉國	to die for one's country
殉情	to die together in the name of love; to sacrifice oneself for love
殉教	to die for one's religion
殉死	to be buried alive as sacrifice (together with husband or superior)
殉節	to sacrifice one's life by loyalty (to one's prince, one's husband etc)
殉職	to die in the line of duty
殉葬	(of servants etc) to be buried alive with the deceased; (of utensils etc) to be buried with the dead
殉道	to die for a just cause
殉難	to sacrifice oneself in a just cause; a victim of a disaster
殊	(literary) to kill; to behead; to sever; to separate; to surpass
殊不知	little imagined; scarcely realized
殊域周咨錄	Ming dynasty record (1574) of exploration and foreign relations
殊姿	differing attitude; different posture
殊榮	special glory; distinction; rare honor
殊死	to behead; capital punishment; desperate struggle
殊深軫念	extreme solicitude (idiom); expressing the deepest condolences
殊異	entirely different; quite separate
殊致	(literary) mixed; inconsistent; (literary) spectacular scenery
殊色	beautiful girl; a beauty
殊途同歸	different routes to the same destination (idiom); fig. different means of achieve the same end
殊鄉	foreign land; faraway land
殍	(literary) to die of starvation
殑	swoon
殖	to grow; to reproduce
殖利	to generate a profit; profit; yield
殖民	colony; colonial
殖民主義	colonialism
殖民地	colony
殖民者	colonizer; colonist; settler
殗	sickness; repeated
殗殜	somewhat ill, but still able to sit up
殘	to destroy; to spoil; to ruin
殘值	residual value
殘兵敗將	ruined army, defeated general (idiom); scattered remnants
殘冬臘月	final days of the lunar year
殘卷	surviving section of a classic work
殘品	defective goods
殘喘	remaining breath; last gasp
殘垣	(literary) ruined walls; ruins
殘奧	Paralympics; same as Paralympic Games 殘奧會|残奥会[Can2 Ao4 hui4]
殘奧會	Paralympic Games
殘存	to survive; remnant
殘害	to injure; to devastate; to slaughter
殘局	endgame (in chess); desperate situation; aftermath (of a failure)
殘年短景	at the end of the year (idiom)
殘廢	deformity; handicapped
殘影	(physiology) afterimage; (photography) motion blur; (computer screen) ghosting; (fig.) lingering memory
殘忍	cruel; merciless; ruthless
殘念	(coll.) to regret; what a pity! (loanword from Japanese "zannen")
殘敗	dilapidated; in ruins
殘敵	remnant enemy troops
殘暴	brutal; vicious; ruthless
殘月	waning moon
殘本	extant fragment (of book)
殘株	stubble
殘次	defective; inferior in quality
殘次品	defective goods
殘殺	to massacre; to slaughter
殘毒	cruelty
殘民害物	to harm people and damage property (idiom)
殘渣	remainder; filtered out residue; sediment
殘渣餘孽	evil elements who have escaped eradication
殘生	remaining years of one's life
殘留	to remain; to be left over; residual; remnant; residue
殘留物	remnant; residue; material left over
殘疾	disabled; handicapped; deformity on a person or animal
殘疾人	disabled person
殘疾兒	a child with a birth defect; a deformed child
殘破	broken; dilapidated
殘缺	badly damaged; shattered
殘羹	leftovers from a meal
殘羹剩飯	leftovers from a meal; fig. remnants handed down from others
殘肢	stump (of a limb); severed limb
殘膜	leftover agricultural plastic (as waste or rubbish that needs to be disposed of or recycled)
殘花敗柳	broken flower, withered willow (idiom); fig. fallen woman
殘莖	stubble (the stems of plants after harvest)
殘虐	cruel; to treat cruelly
殘部	defeated remnants; scattered survivors
殘酷	cruel; harsh; merciless
殘酷無情	cruel and unfeeling (idiom)
殘障	handicapped
殘餘	remnant; relic; residue
殘餘物	litter; trash
殘香	lingering fragrance
殘骸	remains; wreckage
殙	to die by taking poison
殛	to put to death
殜	unwell; Taiwan pr. [ye4]
殜殜	(of one's breathing) weak
殞	(literary) to perish; to die
殞命	to die; to perish
殞身不恤	to die without regrets (idiom); to sacrifice oneself without hesitation
殢	fatigue
殣	die of hunger
殤	to die in childhood; war dead
殥	(archaic) remote area
殨	to fester; to ulcerate (old variant of 潰|溃[hui4])
殪	to exterminate
殫	entirely; to exhaust
殫力	to strive; endeavor
殫心	to devote one's entire mind
殫悶	to faint; to swoon; to lose consciousness
殫殘	to destroy
殫竭	to use up; to exhaust
殫精極慮	to exhaust one's thoughts and ingenuity (idiom); to think sth through thoroughly
殫精竭慮	to exhaust one's thoughts and ingenuity (idiom); to think sth through thoroughly
殭屍	gyonshi; jiang shi; Chinese vampire
殭屍粉	"zombie fans", fake followers that can be bought to boost one's popularity on Weibo, Baidu etc
殮	to prepare a dead body for coffin
殮屍房	morgue
殮房	morgue
殯	a funeral; to encoffin a corpse; to carry to burial
殯儀	funeral
殯儀員	funeral worker; mortician; undertaker
殯儀館	a funeral home; an undertaker's
殯殮	to bury sb
殯葬	funeral and interment
殯車	hearse
殰	abortion; stillborn
殲	to annihilate; abbr. for 殲擊機|歼击机[jian1 ji1 ji1], fighter plane
殲擊	to annihilate; to attack and destroy
殲擊機	fighter plane
殲滅	to wipe out; to crush; to annihilate
殳	ancient staff-like weapon made of bamboo or wood
段	paragraph; section; segment
段位	rank; class; (Japanese martial arts and board games) dan
段子	item of storytelling or performed dialogue (folk arts); sketch
段子手	sb who crafts and delivers witty, humorous or satirical short stories, jokes or punchlines; a wit; a humorist
段數	rank; level
段氏	a branch of the Xianbei 鮮卑|鲜卑 nomadic people
段玉裁	Duan Yucai (1735-1815), author of Commentary on Shuowen Jiezi (1815) 說文解字註|说文解字注[Shuo1 wen2 Jie3 zi4 Zhu4]
段祺瑞	Duan Qirui (1864-1936), commander of Beiyang Army under Yuan Shikai, then politician and powerful warlord
段荃法	Duan Quanfa (1939-2010), Chinese writer
段落	phase; time interval; paragraph
段錯誤	segmentation fault
殷	flourishing; abundant; earnest
殷切	ardent; eager; earnest
殷勤	politely; solicitously; eagerly attentive
殷商	final name of the Shang dynasty after their move to Yinxu 殷墟 in modern Henan province
殷墟	Yinxu, ruins of Yinshang 殷商 city at Anyang 安陽|安阳 in Henan province, a World Heritage site
殷富	well off; prosperous
殷實	thriving; well-off; substantial
殷弘緒	François Xavier d'Entrecolles (1664-1741), French Jesuit missionary to Kangxi court
殷憂啟聖	deep suffering can lead to enlightenment (idiom)
殷殷	earnest; ardent (hope etc)
殷紅	dark red
殷都區	Yindu, a district of Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
殹	(archaic) (meaning unclear); (final particle)
殺	to kill; to slay; to murder; to attack; to weaken; to reduce
殺一儆百	lit. kill one to warn a hundred (idiom); to punish an individual as an example to others
殺人	to kill a person; to commit murder
殺人不眨眼	to murder without blinking an eye (idiom); ruthless; cold-blooded
殺人不過頭點地	It's all exaggeration, you don't need to take it seriously
殺人如麻	(lit.) to kill people like scything flax (idiom)
殺人放火	to kill and burn (idiom); murder and arson
殺人未遂	attempted murder
殺人案	murder case; homicide case
殺人案件	(case of, incident of) murder
殺人滅口	(idiom) to kill sb to prevent them from revealing sth
殺人犯	murderer; homicide
殺人狂	homicidal maniac
殺人越貨	to kill sb for his property (idiom); to murder for money
殺人鯨	orca; killer whale (Orcinus orca)
殺傷	to kill or injure
殺傷力	destructive power; harmfulness
殺價	to beat down the price; to haggle; to slash one's prices
殺出重圍	to force one's way out of encirclement; to break through
殺千刀	damn; friggin'; goddamn; fucking
殺千刀的	bastard; scumbag; son of a bitch
殺君馬者道旁兒	lit. bystanders killed the king's horse (idiom) (based on an ancient story in which people along the road cheered a horseman on as he galloped past, until the horse died of exhaustion)
殺器	deadly weapon
殺嬰	infanticide
殺害	to murder
殺富濟貧	robbing the rich to help the poor
殺彘教子	to kill a pig as a lesson to the children (idiom); parents must teach by example
殺心	murderous intent; intent to kill
殺戮	to massacre; to slaughter
殺手	killer; murderer; hit man
殺手級應用	killer application; killer app
殺手鐧	(fig.) trump card
殺掉	to kill
殺敵	to attack the enemy
殺機	desire to commit murder; great danger
殺死	to kill
殺毒	to disinfect; (computing) to destroy a computer virus
殺毒軟件	antivirus software
殺氣	menacing air; murderous look; to vent one's anger
殺氣騰騰	ferocious; murderous-looking
殺滅	to exterminate
殺熟	(coll.) (business) to exploit the trust of acquaintances or loyal customers for profit
殺球	to spike the ball (volleyball etc); to smash (tennis etc)
殺生	to take the life of a living creature
殺真菌	fungicidal; to have a fungicidal effect
殺真菌劑	fungicide
殺絕	to exterminate
殺草快	diquat
殺菌	to kill germs; to disinfect; to sterilize
殺菌劑	germicide; antimicrobial agent
殺螺劑	snail poison
殺蟲	insecticide
殺蟲劑	insecticide; pesticide
殺蟲藥	insecticide
殺豬宰羊	to kill the pigs and slaughter the sheep (idiom)
殺豬盤	pig butchering scam (where the scammer builds trust with the victim over time, "fattening them up," before ultimately "slaughtering" them by taking their money); (esp.) romance scam
殺身之禍	(idiom) getting killed
殺身成仁	(idiom) to die a martyr; to be martyred
殺軟	antivirus software; abbr. for 殺毒軟件|杀毒软件[sha1 du2 ruan3 jian4]
殺進	to storm (a city etc); to raid
殺進殺出	to execute a lightning raid; (investment) to buy, then quickly sell
殺雞儆猴	(lit.) to kill the chicken to warn the monkey (idiom)
殺雞取卵	lit. to kill the chicken to get the eggs (idiom)
殺雞焉用牛刀	(lit.) why use an ox-cleaver to kill a chicken?; (fig.) there's no need to use great ability or resources for a trivial task
殺雞給猴看	lit. to kill a chicken in front of a monkey; fig. to make an example of sb (by punishment) to frighten others
殺青	to put the last hand to (a book, a film etc); to finalize
殺頭	to behead
殺馬特	Chinese youth subculture associated esp. with young migrant workers, characterized by flamboyant hairstyles and clothing, heavy makeup, piercings etc (loanword from "smart")
殺鼠藥	rat poison
殼	(coll.) shell (of an egg, nut, crab etc)
殼兒	shell; crust
殼幔	crust-mantle (geology)
殼牌公司	Shell (oil company)
殼菜	mussels (as food)
殼質	chitin
殼郎豬	(coll.) feeder pig
殿	palace hall
殿下	Your Majesty (honorific); His or Her Highness
殿堂	palace; hall; temple buildings
殿宇	(literary) halls (of a palace or a temple)
殿後	to bring up the rear
殿衛	fullback (sports)
殿試	court examination, the top grade imperial exam
殿軍	runner-up
毀	to destroy; to ruin; to defame; to slander
毀三觀	(Internet slang) (of a situation, video clip etc) to make one think "wtf!"
毀傷	to injure; to damage
毀壞	to damage; to devastate; to vandalize
毀家紓難	to sacrifice one's wealth to save the state (idiom)
毀容	to disfigure; to spoil the beauty of
毀掉	to destroy
毀損	impair, damage
毀於一旦	(idiom) ruined in a short time (esp. of sth that took a long time or great effort to achieve)
毀滅	to perish; to ruin; to destroy
毀滅性	destructive; devastating
毀約	to break a promise; breach of contract
毀謗	slander; libel; to malign; to disparage
毀譽參半	(idiom) to receive both praise and criticism; to get mixed reviews
毀除	to destroy
毅	firm and resolute; staunch
毅力	perseverance; willpower
毅然	firmly; resolutely; without hesitation
毅然決然	without hesitation; resolutely; firmly
毆	to beat up; to hit sb
毆打	to beat up; to come to blows; battery (law)
毆打罪	assault and battery (law)
毆鬥	to have a fist fight; fist fight; brawl
毈	infertile egg
毋	(literary) no; don't; to not have
毋寧	not as good as; would rather
毋庸	no need for
毋忘	Don't forget! (literary)
母	mother; elderly female relative; origin
母上	(slang) mother; mom (from Japanese 母上 "haha-ue")
母乳	breast milk
母乳代用品	breast milk substitute
母乳化奶粉	infant formula
母乳餵養	breastfeeding
母公司	parent company
母函數	generating function (math.)
母后	(historical) form of address used by an emperor or imperial children for their mother (the empress or the empress dowager)
母哈	female husky (dog)
母喪	the death of one's mother
母單	abbr. for 母胎單身|母胎单身[mu3 tai1 dan1 shen1]
母國	motherland; home country
母夜叉	witch; shrew; vixen
母女	mother and daughter; mother-daughter
母子	mother and child; parent and subsidiary (companies)
母子垂直感染	mother-to-infant transmission
母帶	master tape
母彈	parent shell (of a cluster bomb)
母性	maternal instinct; motherliness
母愛	maternal love
母星	(science fiction) home planet; (astronomy) parent star
母本	(genetics) female parent
母板	motherboard
母校	alma mater
母機	machine tool; mother ship
母權制	matriarchy
母港	home port (of a ship or fleet)
母湯	(Tw) (slang) don't; must not; won't do (from Taiwanese 毋通, Tai-lo pr. [m̄-thang], similar to Mandarin 不要[bu4 yao4] or 不行[bu4 xing2])
母犬	female dog; bitch
母球	cue ball (in billiards)
母系	maternal; matriarchal
母系社會	matrilineality
母細胞	(biology) mother cell; matricyte
母線	generating line; generatrix (in geometry); bus (in electronics)
母群體	(statistics) population; parent population
母老虎	tigress; (fig.) fierce woman; vixen
母胎	mother's womb
母胎solo	(slang) never been in a romantic relationship
母胎單身	never been in a romantic relationship
母船	mother ship
母蜂	queen bee
母親	mother
母親河	lifeline river; river regarded as the cradle of a civilization
母親節	Mother's Day
母語	native language; mother tongue; (linguistics) parent language
母質	parent material (e.g. the eroded rock making up sediment)
母雞	hen
母難日	(old) birthday
母音	vowel
母音調和	vowel harmony (in phonetics)
母題	motif (loanword); main idea; theme
母驢	jenny; female donkey
母體	(zoology, medicine) mother's body; (chemistry etc) parent; matrix
母黨	mother's kinfolk
每	each; every
每人	each person; everybody; per person
每個	each; every
每個人	everybody; everyone
每分每秒	each and every moment
每夜	nightly
每天	every day
每常	frequently (in the past); regularly
每年	every year; each year; yearly
每年一度	once a year (every year)
每日	daily; (soup etc) of the day
每日快報	Daily Express (newspaper)
每日新聞	Mainichi Shimbun, a Japanese daily newspaper
每日郵報	Daily Mail (newspaper)
每日鏡報	Daily Mirror (newspaper)
每日限價	(finance) daily trading limit, the maximum allowed price fluctuation of a stock or security in a trading day
每日電訊報	Daily Telegraph (newspaper)
每時每刻	at all times; at every moment
每時每日	every day and every hour; hourly and daily (idiom)
每月	each month
每次	every time
每每	often
每況愈下	to steadily deteriorate
每當	whenever; every time
每處	everywhere; anywhere
每逢	every time; on each occasion; whenever
每逢佳節倍思親	doubly homesick for our dear ones at each festive day (from a poem by Wang Wei 王維|王维[Wang2 Wei2])
每週	every week
每週一次	once a week
每隔	at intervals of; every (so often)
毐	by extension, person of reprehensible morals; immoral; adulterer
毑	mother
毒	poison; to poison; poisonous
毒刑	torture; cruel corporal punishment
毒刺	venomous sting
毒劑	a poison; a toxic agent; poison gas
毒劑彈	gas projectile
毒力	virulence
毒化	to poison (usu. figuratively); to debase; to pervert; to harm
毒參	hemlock (Conium maculatum)
毒品	drugs; narcotics
毒唯	fan of one particular member of a pop idol band who denigrates and defames the other members
毒奶	contaminated milk (esp. milk products adulterated with melamine in a 2008 scandal in China)
毒奶粉	contaminated milk powder (milk powder adulterated with melamine in a 2008 scandal in China)
毒害	to harm (sb's health) with narcotics etc; to poison (people's minds); to corrupt
毒性	toxicity
毒手	deadly blow; vicious attack; treacherous assault
毒打	to viciously beat (sb) up
毒株	(virus) strain
毒梟	drug lord
毒殺	to kill by poisoning
毒氣	poison gas; toxic gas; manifestation of passion, anger etc (Buddhism)
毒氣彈	poison gas shell; poison gas grenade
毒液	venom; poisonous fluid
毒爪	forcipules (the venomous pair of pincer-like appendages of a centipede)
毒牙	venomous fang
毒物	poisonous substance; poison
毒理學	toxicology
毒瓦斯	poisonous gas; stinking fart
毒瘤	malignant tumor
毒癮	drug addiction
毒素	toxin; (fig.) pernicious influence
毒肽	phallotoxin (biochemistry)
毒腺	poison gland
毒舌	venomous tongue; sharp-tongued; harsh
毒莠定	picloram
毒蕈	poisonous mushroom; toadstool
毒藥	poison
毒蛇	viper
毒蟲	poisonous insect (or spider etc); venomous snake; (slang) junkie
毒蠅傘	fly Amanita or fly agaric (Amanita muscaria)
毒販	drug dealer; drug trafficker
毒資	drug money
毒辣	cruel; sinister; vicious
毒雞湯	(coll.) profit-motivated article cynically disguised as feel-good content 雞湯|鸡汤[ji1 tang1] and designed to go viral
毒顎	forcipules (the venomous pair of pincer-like appendages of a centipede)
毒駕	to drive under the influence of drugs
毓	(literary) to produce; to foster; to nurture
毓婷	Yuting, trade name of an emergency birth control tablet containing the hormonal medication levonorgestrel
比	to compare; (followed by a noun and adjective) more {adj.} than {noun}
比一比	to make a comparison; to engage in a contest
比上不足，比下有餘	neither the best nor the worst; not too bad; better than some
比下去	to defeat; to be superior to
比不上	can't compare with
比不了	cannot compare to; to be no match for
比丘	Buddhist monk (loanword from Sanskrit "bhiksu")
比丘尼	Buddhist nun (loanword from Sanskrit "bhiksuni")
比中指	to give the middle finger
比亞	Bia, daughter of Pallas and Styx in Greek mythology, personification of violence
比亞迪	BYD Company (company name)
比亞迪汽車	BYD Auto, PRC car company
比亞韋斯托克	Białystok, city in Poland
比什凱克	Bishkek, capital of Kyrgyzstan
比佛利山	Beverly Hills
比作	to liken to; to compare to
比來	lately; recently
比例	proportion; scale
比例尺	scale; architect's scale; engineer's scale
比值	ratio
比做	to liken to; to compare to
比價	to compare prices; to compare offers
比分	score (of a game or competition)
比利	(HK, Sg, Tw) Pelé (1940–2022), Edson Arantes Do Nascimento, Brazilian football star
比利時	Belgium
比利牛斯	Pyrenees mountains
比利牛斯山	Pyrenees mountains
比劃	to gesture; to gesticulate
比勒費爾德	Bielefeld (city in Germany)
比勒陀利亞	Pretoria, capital of South Africa
比及	(literary) when; by the time; Taiwan pr. [bi4 ji2]
比哈爾邦	Bihar, state in eastern India
比喻	to compare; to liken to; metaphor
比喻義	figurative meaning (of a word)
比埃茲巴伯	Beelzebub
比基尼	(loanword) bikini
比基尼環礁	Bikini Atoll in the Marshall Islands, former US nuclear test site in the Pacific
比如	for example; for instance; such as
比如縣	Biru, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
比如說	for example
比威力	yield-to-weight ratio (of a nuclear weapon)
比安	Bienne, Switzerland
比容	specific volume
比對	comparison; to verify by comparing
比干	Bi Gan (Chinese god of wealth)
比年	(literary) every year; year after year; (literary) in recent years
比心	(Internet slang) to form a hand heart using one's thumb and forefinger (or by using both hands)
比手劃腳	to gesticulate; to make lively gestures (while talking)
比才	Georges Bizet (1838–1875), French composer
比拚	(Tw) to compete; contest
比拼	to compete fiercely; contest
比捕	(old) to set a time limit for the arrest of a criminal
比擬	to compare; to draw a parallel; to match
比數	score (of a game or competition)
比斯開灣	Bay of Biscay
比方	analogy; illustrative example; for instance
比方說	for example; for instance
比桿賽	stroke play (golf)
比武	martial arts competition; tournament; to compete in a contest
比比皆是	can be found everywhere
比氏鶲鶯	(bird species of China) Bianchi's warbler (Phylloscopus valentini)
比濕	specific humidity
比為	to liken to; to compare to
比照	according to; in the light of; contrast
比熱	specific heat
比熱容	(physics) specific heat capacity
比爛	to compare two unsatisfactory things
比爾	Bill (name)
比爾·蓋茨	Bill Gates (1955-), co-founder of Microsoft
比爾博	Bilbo Baggins, hero of Tolkien's The Hobbit 霍比特人
比特	bit (binary digit) (loanword)
比特幣	Bitcoin
比特犬	pit bull (loanword)
比特納	(surname) Bittner or Büttner
比率	ratio; rate; proportion
比登天還難	lit. even harder than reaching the sky (idiom)
比目魚	flatfish; flounder
比索	(Tw) Bissau, capital of Guinea-Bissau
比紹	Bissau, capital of Guinea-Bissau
比翼	(flying) wing to wing
比翼雙飛	lit. a pair of birds flying close together (idiom)
比翼齊飛	to fly wing to wing (idiom); two hearts beating as one
比耶	to make a V sign (esp. when posing for photos)
比肩	to be shoulder to shoulder; (fig.) to be as good as; to match
比腕力	arm wrestling (Tw)
比色分析	colorimetric analysis
比薩	Pisa, town in Toscana, Italy
比薩斜塔	Leaning Tower of Pisa
比薩餅	pizza (loanword)
比衝	(rocketry) specific impulse
比試	to have a competition; to measure with one's hand or arm
比賽	competition (sports etc); match; to compete
比賽場	stadium; playing field for a competition
比賽項目	sporting event; item on program of sports competition
比贊	to give a thumbs-up
比起	compared with
比較	to compare; to contrast; comparatively
比較分析	comparative analysis
比較文學	comparative literature
比較級	(grammar) the comparative
比較而言	comparatively speaking
比鄰	(literary) next-door neighbor; near; next to; Taiwan pr. [bi4lin2]
比重	proportion; (physics) specific gravity
比量	to measure roughly (with the hand, a stick, string etc)
比附	to draw a parallel
毖	careful; to prevent
毗	to adjoin; to border on
毗濕奴	Vishnu (Hindu deity)
毗耶娑	Vyasa, Indian sage and scribe, supposed author of epic 摩訶婆羅多|摩诃婆罗多[Mo2 he1 po2 luo2 duo1] and a major figure in it
毗連	to adjoin
毗鄰	bordering; adjacent to
毚	cunning; artful
毛	hair; feather; down
毛主席	Chairman Mao; Mao Zedong 毛澤東|毛泽东[Mao2 Ze2 dong1] (1893–1976), Chinese Communist leader
毛主席語錄	Quotations from Chairman Mao Tse-tung, published 1964–1979 and widely distributed during the Cultural Revolution
毛主義	Maoism
毛利	gross profit
毛利人	Maori, indigenous Polynesian people of New Zealand
毛利率	gross profit margin; gross margin
毛刷	brush
毛刺	barb; whiskers
毛南	Maonan ethnic group
毛南族	Maonan ethnic group
毛口	metal filings (e.g. from a drill or lathe); burr
毛嗶嘰	serge
毛囊	hair follicle
毛坯	semifinished products
毛坯房	undecorated residential unit; house or apartment sold without interior finishing
毛塑像	statue of Chairman Mao Zedong (1893-1976) 毛澤東|毛泽东[Mao2 Ze2 dong1]
毛妹	(slang) young Russian woman
毛姆	Maugham (family name); W. Somerset Maugham (1874-1965), English writer
毛子	hairy fellow; foreigner; Russian (derog.)
毛子國	(derog.) Russia
毛孔	pore
毛孩子	child; kid; (slang) furry pet (such as a dog or cat)
毛尖	maojian (a type of Chinese green tea made from young leaves and buds)
毛巾	towel
毛手毛腳	carelessly and haphazardly; to paw; to grope
毛拉	Mullah (religious leader in Islam)
毛收入	gross income; gross profit
毛料	rough lumber; woollen cloth
毛根	a strand of hair; pipe cleaner
毛條	wool top, semiprocessed raw wool
毛概	Introduction to Maoism (subject)
毛毛	(pet name for a baby or small child)
毛毛的	creeped out; unnerved; uneasy
毛毛蟲	caterpillar
毛毛雨	drizzle; light rain
毛毯	blanket
毛氈	felt
毛洋槐	rose acacia (Robinia hispida, a false acacia)
毛派	Maoist
毛澤東	Mao Zedong (1893–1976), leader of the Chinese Communist Party 1935–1976
毛澤東主義	Maoism
毛澤東思想	Mao Zedong Thought
毛澤東選集	Selected Works of Mao Zedong
毛澤東：鮮為人知的故事	Mao: The Unknown Story by Jung Chang 張戎|张戎[Zhang1 Rong2] and Jon Halliday
毛片	pornographic film; rushes (of a movie); (old) fur color
毛玻璃	frosted glass
毛病	fault; defect; shortcomings
毛痣	hairy nevus
毛皮	fur; pelt
毛票	(coll.) Renminbi banknote with a denomination of one, two or five jiao 角[jiao3]
毛窩	cotton-padded shoes
毛竹	moso bamboo (Phyllostachys edulis), used as timber etc
毛筆	writing brush
毛細	capillary
毛細孔	pore
毛細血管	capillary blood vessels
毛絨玩具	plush toy; cuddly toy
毛絨絨	fluffy; furry
毛線	knitting wool; wool yarn
毛線衣	sweater; woolen knitwear; wool
毛線針	knitting needle
毛織物	woolen textiles
毛織運動衫	jersey
毛肚	tripe (gastronomy)
毛腰	(dialect) to bend over
毛腳漁鴞	(bird species of China) Blakiston's fish owl (Bubo blakistoni)
毛腿夜鷹	(bird species of China) great eared nightjar (Lyncornis macrotis)
毛腿沙雞	(bird species of China) Pallas's sandgrouse (Syrrhaptes paradoxus)
毛腿鵟	(bird species of China) rough-legged buzzard (Buteo lagopus)
毛色	(of an animal) appearance or color of coat
毛茛	buttercup
毛茶	unprocessed sun-dried tea leaves used to make black or green tea
毛茸茸	hairy; downy
毛蚴	ciliated larva; miracidium
毛蟲	caterpillar
毛血旺	duck's blood and beef tripe in spicy soup
毛衣	(wool) sweater
毛誕節	Mao Zedong’s birthday, December 26th
毛豆	immature green soy beans, either still in the pod (edamame) or removed from the pod
毛象	mammoth
毛豬	live pig
毛賊	thief
毛遂	Mao Sui (third century BC), who proverbially offered his services to the King of Chu 楚, see 毛遂自薦|毛遂自荐[Mao2 Sui4 zi4 jian4]
毛遂自薦	Mao Sui recommends himself (idiom); to offer one's services (in the style of Mao Sui offering his services to king of Chu 楚 of the Warring states)
毛選	Selected Works of Mao Zedong (abbr. for 毛澤東選集|毛泽东选集[Mao2 Ze2 dong1 Xuan3 ji2])
毛邊	(textiles, papermaking etc) raw edge; rough edge
毛邊紙	fine paper made from bamboo, used for calligraphy, painting etc
毛鄧三	Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory & the Three Represents (abbr. for 毛澤東思想|毛泽东思想[Mao2 Ze2 dong1 Si1 xiang3] + 鄧小平理論|邓小平理论[Deng4 Xiao3 ping2 Li3 lun4] + 三個代表|三个代表[San1 ge4 Dai4 biao3])
毛酸漿	husk ground-cherry; husk tomato (Physalis pubescens)
毛里塔尼亞	Mauritania
毛里求斯	Mauritius
毛重	gross weight
毛錐	writing brush (old)
毛驢	donkey
毛骨悚然	to have one's hair stand on end (idiom); to feel one's blood run cold
毛髮	hair
毛鱗魚	capelin
毛鴨蛋	balut (boiled duck egg with a partly-developed embryo, which is eaten from the shell)
毛黴菌病	mucormycosis
毧	down; felt
毪	a type of woolen fabric made in Tibet
毪子	a type of woolen fabric made in Tibet
毫	hair; drawing brush; (in the) least
毫不	hardly; not in the least; not at all
毫不介意	to not mind (at all, a bit); to not care in the slightest
毫不客氣	no trace of politeness; unrestrained (criticism)
毫不懷疑	without the slightest doubt
毫不猶豫	without the slightest hesitation
毫不留情	to show no quarter; ruthless; relentless
毫不費力	effortless; not expending the slightest effort
毫不遜色	not inferior in any respect
毫不遲疑	without the slightest hesitation
毫克	milligram
毫升	milliliter
毫安	milliampere
毫安時	milliampere-hour (mAh)
毫巴	millibar (mbar or mb), unit of pressure (equal to hectopascal)
毫微	(prefix) nano-
毫微米	millimicron or one-millionth of a millimeter
毫毛	fine hair (on the body); down
毫無	not in the least; to completely lack
毫無二致	(idiom) without the slightest difference
毫無保留	to hold nothing back; without reservation
毫無效果	to no avail; achieving nothing; totally ineffective
毫無疑問	certainty; without a doubt
毫無遜色	not in the least inferior (idiom)
毫瓦	milliwatt
毫秒	millisecond, ms
毫米	millimeter
毫米水銀柱	millibar (unit of pressure)
毫米汞柱	millimeter of mercury; mmHg (unit of pressure)
毫米波	millimeter wave (radio signal)
毫釐不爽	not to deviate an iota (idiom); to be extremely accurate
毫針	acupuncture needle
毫髮	a hair; the slightest
毫髮不爽	not to deviate one hair's breadth (idiom); to be extremely accurate
毫髮無傷	(idiom) unscathed; unharmed; without a scratch
毬	ball used for playing games (variant of 球[qiu2])
毯	blanket; rug
毯子	blanket
毳	crisp; brittle; fine animal hair
毷	restless
毹	rug
毽	shuttlecock
毽子	a kind of shuttlecock used to play games in which it is kept in the air without using the hands, primarily by kicking
毾	a coarse, woollen serge
毿	long-haired; shaggy
氂	yak (Bos grunniens)
氂牛	yak (Bos grunniens)
氄	down or fine hair
氅	overcoat
氆	used in 氆氌|氆氇[pu3 lu5]
氆氌	woolen fabric made in Tibet
氈	felt (fabric)
氈子	felt (fabric)
氈房	yurt
氈靴	felt boots; valenki (traditional Russian footwear)
氉	restless, melancholy
氌	used in 氆氌|氆氇[pu3 lu5]
氍	woolen rug
氏	(bound form) family name; surname (as in 王氏[Wang2 shi4] "the Wang clan")
氏族	clan
氐	name of an ancient tribe
民	(bound form) the people; inhabitants of a country
民不聊生	(idiom) the people have no way to make a living (from Records of the Grand Historian 史記|史记[Shi3 ji4])
民主	democracy; democratic
民主主義	democracy (as an ideology)
民主主義者	democrat
民主化	to convert to democracy; democratic transformation
民主建港協進聯盟	Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong (DAB), a pro-Beijing political party in Hong Kong
民主政治	democracy (as a system of government)
民主派	(Hong Kong politics) the pro-democracy camp (founded 1987), aka the pan-democrats
民主牆	Democracy Wall, Beijing (1978–1979); bulletin boards modeled on it in some Hong Kong universities
民主進步黨	DPP (Democratic Progressive Party, Taiwan); abbr. to 民進黨|民进党
民主集中制	democratic centralism
民主革命	democratic revolution
民主黨	Democratic Party
民主黨人	Democrat (Democratic Party member or supporter)
民事	civil case; agricultural affairs; civil
民事訴訟	common plea; civil appeal (as opposed to criminal case)
民事責任	civil liability (law)
民以食為天	Food is the God of the people. (idiom); People view food as the primary need.
民企	privately-operated enterprise (abbr. for 民營企業|民营企业[min2 ying2 qi3 ye4])
民俗	popular custom
民俗學	folklore
民兵	people's militia; militia; militiaman
民勤縣	Minqin, a county in Wuwei City 武威市[Wu3 wei1 Shi4], Gansu
民和回族土族自治縣	Minhe Hui and Tu Autonomous County, in Haidong City 海東市|海东市[Hai3 dong1 Shi4], Qinghai
民品	product for civilian use
民國	Republic of China (1912-1949)
民國通俗演義	Dramatized history of Republican China until 1927 by Cai Dongfan 蔡東藩|蔡东藩, and later chapters by Xu Qinfu 許廑父|许廑父
民團	civil corps; militia
民女	woman from an ordinary family
民宅	private residence; civilian dwelling
民家	minka; commoner's house; Bai ethnic group
民宿	(orthographic borrowing from Japanese 民宿 "minshuku") property rented via Airbnb or similar platform; guesthouse; bed-and-breakfast; homestay; pension
民居	houses; homes
民工	migrant worker (who moved from a rural area of China to a city to find work)
民庭	civil court
民建聯	Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong (DAB), a pro-Beijing political party in Hong Kong (abbr. for 民主建港協進聯盟|民主建港协进联盟[Min2 zhu3 Jian4 gang3 Xie2 jin4 Lian2 meng2])
民心	popular sentiment
民怨	popular grievance; complaints of the people
民怨沸騰	seething discontent (idiom); popular grievances boil over
民怨鼎沸	seething discontent (idiom); popular grievances boil over
民情	circumstances of the people; popular sentiment; the mood of the people
民意	public opinion; popular will; public will
民意測驗	opinion poll
民意調查	opinion poll
民憤	public outrage
民房	private house
民政	civil administration
民政局	Bureau of Civil Affairs
民政廳	provincial department of civil affairs
民政部	Ministry of Civil Affairs (MCA) of the PRC
民數記	Book of Numbers; Fourth Book of Moses
民族	nationality; ethnic group
民族主義	nationalism; national self-determination
民族主義情緒	nationalist feelings; nationalist sentiment
民族團結	national unity
民族大學	University for Nationalities (university of ethnic studies)
民族大遷徙	great migration of peoples
民族學	ethnology; anthropology
民族工業	national industry; industry run by Chinese nationals or ethnic Chinese
民族平等	equality of ethnic groups
民族志	ethnography
民族社會主義	national socialism; Nazism
民族自決	self-determination
民族舞蹈	folk dance
民族英雄	national hero
民族雜居地區	mixed ethnic area
民樂	folk music, esp. for traditional instruments
民樂縣	Minle, a county in Zhangye City 張掖市|张掖市[Zhang1 ye4 Shi4], Gansu
民權	civil liberties
民權主義	democracy; civil liberties
民權縣	Minquan, a county in Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
民歌	folk song
民歌手	folk singer
民法	civil law
民法典	civil code
民營	privately run (i.e. by a company, not the state)
民營企業	privately-operated enterprise
民營化	privatization
民爆	civil explosives
民生	people's livelihood; people's welfare
民生主義	principle of people's livelihood, the third of Dr Sun Yat-sen's 孫中山|孙中山 Three Principles of the People 三民主義|三民主义 (at the time, meaning redistribution of wealth, self-sufficiency and internal trade)
民生凋敝	the people's livelihood is reduced to destitution (idiom); a time of famine and impoverishment
民用	(for) civilian use
民盟	China Democratic League, one of the eight legally recognized non-CCP political parties in China (abbr. for 中國民主同盟|中国民主同盟[Zhong1 guo2 Min2 zhu3 Tong2 meng2])
民眾	the populace; the masses; the common people
民科	pseudoscientist; crank; crackpot (abbr. for 民間科學家|民间科学家)
民窮財盡	the people are impoverished, their means exhausted (idiom); to drive the nation to bankruptcy
民答那峨海	Mindanao Sea
民粹主義	populism
民粹派	the Narodniks, Russian populist group in the 19th century
民脂民膏	lit. the fat and wealth of the people (idiom); the nation's hard-won wealth (esp. as an object of unscrupulous exploitation)
民航	civil aviation
民航班機	civilian plane; commercial flight
民調	opinion poll
民諺	folk saying; proverb
民謠	ballad; folk song
民警	civil police; PRC police; abbr. for 人民警察
民變	mass uprising; popular revolt; civil commotion
民變峰起	seething discontent (idiom); widespread popular grievances
民豐縣	Niya, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
民資	private capital
民賊獨夫	tyrant and oppressor of the people (idiom); traitorous dictator
民辦	run by the local people; privately operated
民進	China Association for Promoting Democracy (abbr. for 中國民主促進會|中国民主促进会[Zhong1 guo2 Min2 zhu3 Cu4 jin4 hui4])
民進黨	DPP (Democratic Progressive Party, Taiwan); abbr. for 民主進步黨|民主进步党
民運	civil transport; movement aimed at the masses
民選	democratically elected
民間	among the people; popular; folk
民間傳說	popular tradition; folk legend
民間故事	folk story; folktale
民間組織	association; organization; humanitarian organization
民間習俗	folk customs
民間舞	folk dance
民間舞蹈	folk dance
民間藝術	folk art
民間音樂	folk music
民防	civil defense
民風	popular customs; folkways
氓	(literary) common people
氕	protium 1H
氖	neon (chemistry)
氘	deuterium 2H
氘核	deuteron
氙	xenon (chemistry)
氚	(chemistry) tritium
氛	miasma; vapor
氛圍	ambience; atmosphere
氛圍編程	(computing) vibe coding
氜	old name for 氦[hai4], helium
氝	neon Ne (chemistry) (now written 氖[nai3])
氟	fluorine (chemistry)
氟利昂	freon (chemistry)
氟化	fluoridation; fluorination
氟化氫	hydrofluoric acid
氟化物	fluoride
氟石	fluorite CaF2; fluorspar; fluor
氟硅酸	fluorosilicic acid H2SiF6; fluorosilicate
氟骨症	osteofluorosis; skeletal fluorosis
氠	xenon (chemistry) (old)
氡	radon (chemistry)
氣	gas; air; smell; weather
氣不公	indignant
氣不平	angry at unfairness
氣不忿兒	furious; indignant
氣不過	so angry it's unbearable; bitter about unbearable grievances
氣人	to anger; to annoy
氣候	(meteorology) climate
氣候學	climatology
氣候學家	a climatologist
氣候暖化	climate warming
氣候狀況	climatic conditions; atmospheric conditions
氣候變化	climate change
氣冷式反應堆	gas-cooled reactor
氣凝膠	aerogel
氣切	(medicine) tracheotomy (abbr. for 氣管切開術|气管切开术[qi4 guan3 qie1 kai1 shu4])
氣力	strength; energy; vigor
氣功	qigong, a traditional Chinese system of cultivating vital energy 氣|气[qi4] through coordinated breathing, movement and meditation
氣動	pneumatic
氣動噪聲	aerodynamic noise
氣動式	pneumatic
氣動控制	pneumatic control
氣動泵	pneumatic pump
氣動葫蘆	pneumatic hoist pulley
氣動開關	pneumatic switch
氣動閘	pneumatic brake
氣勢	imposing manner; loftiness; grandeur
氣勢凌人	arrogant and overbearing
氣勢宏偉	imposing; majestic
氣勢洶洶	aggressive; truculent; overbearing
氣包子	quick-tempered person
氣化	to vaporize; evaporation; carburetion
氣口	location on wrist over the radial artery where pulse is taken in TCM
氣吁吁	to pant; to gasp for breath
氣味	odor; scent
氣呼呼	panting with rage
氣咻咻	to pant; to gasp for breath
氣哼哼	enraged; furious; livid
氣喘	to gasp for breath; asthma
氣喘吁吁	to pant; to gasp for breath
氣喘喘	breathless
氣喘如牛	to breathe heavily like an ox (idiom); to huff and puff
氣喘病	asthma
氣囊	air sac; aerostat gasbag
氣圈	(planet) atmosphere; (medical) air ring; air cushion
氣團	air mass
氣場	qi field (in qigong or feng shui)
氣塞	airlock; air block; fipple (in the mouthpiece of wind instrument)
氣墊	air cushion (as on hovercraft)
氣墊船	hovercraft
氣壓	atmospheric pressure; barometric pressure
氣壓表	barometer
氣壓計	barometer
氣壞	furious; very angry
氣壯山河	magnificent; inspiring
氣孔	air-bubble; pore; stoma
氣宇	bearing; deportment
氣宇軒昂	to have an imposing or impressive appearance; impressive appearance
氣定神閒	calm and composed (idiom)
氣室	air cell (inside an egg)
氣密	airtight
氣度	bearing; manner; presence
氣度恢宏	broad-minded; magnanimous
氣急敗壞	flustered and exasperated; utterly discomfited
氣息	breath; smell; odor
氣息奄奄	to have only a breath of life (idiom)
氣惱	to be annoyed; to get angry
氣態	gaseous state (physics); manner; air
氣憤	indignant; furious
氣數	fate; destiny; one's lot
氣旋	cyclone
氣昂昂	full of vigor; spirited; valiant
氣根	aerial root (botany)
氣概	lofty quality; mettle; spirit
氣槍	an air gun
氣樓	small ventilation tower on roof of building
氣死	to infuriate; to be furious; to die from an excess of anger
氣氛	atmosphere; mood
氣沖沖	furious; enraged
氣沖牛斗	(idiom) imposing and powerful; (in modern usage, esp.) extremely angry
氣沖霄漢	(idiom) dauntless; courageous; spirited
氣泡	bubble; blister (in metal); (of beverages) sparkling
氣泡布	bubble wrap
氣泡膜	bubble wrap
氣泡酒	sparkling wine
氣泵	air pump
氣派	impressive; stylish; magnificent
氣流	stream of air; airflow; slipstream
氣溫	air temperature
氣溶膠	aerosol
氣滯	stagnation of 氣|气[qi4] (TCM)
氣潭	air pocket
氣炸	to burst with rage; to blow one's top
氣焊	gas welding
氣焰	arrogance; haughtiness
氣煤	gas coal
氣球	balloon
氣瓶	gas cylinder; air bottle; air tank (diving)
氣生根	aerial root (botany)
氣田	gas field
氣瘋	(coll.) to be driven crazy with anger
氣盛	red-blooded; full of vim; impetuous
氣窗	window for ventilation (typically high up on a wall); transom window; fanlight
氣笑	to be angry about sth but also find it laughable
氣筒	inflator; bicycle pump
氣管	windpipe; trachea; respiratory tract
氣管切開術	(medicine) tracheotomy
氣管插管術	endotracheal intubation (medicine)
氣管炎	bacterial tracheitis (inflammation of the windpipe, often caused by Staphylococcus aureus)
氣管痙攣	breathing convulsions (as in asthma); tracheospasm
氣節	moral integrity; unflinching righteousness
氣籠	air pipe; bamboo air pipe used to aerate granary
氣粗	irascible; overbearing
氣絕	to take one's last breath; dying
氣缸	cylinder (engine)
氣胸	pneumothorax (medicine)
氣膠	aerosol
氣色	complexion
氣虛	deficiency of 氣|气[qi4] (TCM)
氣血	qi and blood (two basic bodily fluids of Chinese medicine)
氣話	angry words; sth said in the moment of anger
氣象	meteorological condition; weather; meteorology
氣象台	meteorological office; weather forecasting office
氣象學	meteorology
氣象學家	meteorologist
氣象局	weather bureau; meteorological office
氣象廳	meteorological office
氣象站	weather station
氣象衛星	weather satellite
氣象觀測站	weather station
氣貫長虹	spirit reaches to the rainbow; full of noble aspiration and daring
氣質	personality traits; temperament; disposition; aura; air; feel; vibe
氣逆	reverse flow of 氣|气[qi4] (TCM)
氣道	flue; air duct; air passage
氣量	(lit. quantity of spirit); moral character; degree of forbearance
氣錘	air hammer; pneumatic hammer
氣鑽	pneumatic drill
氣門	valve (esp. tire valve); accelerator (obsolete term for 油門|油门)
氣閘	pneumatic brake; airlock
氣阱	air pocket
氣陷	collapse of 氣|气[qi4] (TCM)
氣隙	air vent; air gap
氣霧免疫	aerosol immunization
氣霧劑	aerosol
氣霧室	cloud chamber
氣韻	(of literature, art) distinct style; flavor; spirit
氣頭上	(in) a fit of anger; (in) a foul mood
氣餒	to be discouraged
氣體	gas (i.e. gaseous substance)
氣體擴散	gaseous diffusion
氣魄	spirit; boldness; positive outlook
氣鳴樂器	aerophone (music)
氣鼓鼓	seething; fuming
氤	used in 氤氳|氤氲[yin1 yun1]
氤氳	(literary) (of smoke, mist) dense; thick
氥	xenon (chemistry) (old)
氦	helium (chemistry)
氦氣	helium (gas)
氦氣球	helium balloon
氧	oxygen (chemistry)
氧乙炔	oxyacetylene
氧乙炔炬	an oxyacetylene torch
氧乙炔焊	oxyacetylene welding
氧乙炔焊炬	oxyacetylene torch
氧割	to cut using oxyacetylene torch
氧化	to oxidize
氧化亞鐵	iron(II) oxide; ferrous oxide
氧化劑	oxidant; oxidizing agent
氧化汞	mercuric oxide (HgO)
氧化物	oxide
氧化罐	Hopcalite canister; Hopcalite cartridge
氧化鈣	calcium oxide, CaO
氧化鈾	uranium oxide
氧化鋁	aluminum oxide
氧化鋅	zinc oxide
氧化鎂	magnesium oxide MgO
氧原子	oxygen atom
氧合器	oxygenator
氧基	alkoxy (chemistry)
氧效應	oxygen effect
氧氣	oxygen
氨	ammonia
氨吖啶	aminoacridine or aminacrine (antiseptic and disinfectant)
氨哮素	clenbuterol
氨基	amino; amino group
氨基比林	aminopyrine (loanword)
氨基甲酸酯類化合物	carbamate
氨基苯酸	aminobenzoic acid
氨基葡糖	glucosamine (abbr. for 氨基葡萄糖[an1 ji1 pu2 tao5 tang2])
氨基葡萄糖	glucosamine (C6H13NO5)
氨基酸	amino acid
氨氣	ammonia (gas)
氨水	ammonia solution
氨綸	spandex; elastane
氨苄青黴素	(pharmacology) ampicillin
氪	krypton (chemistry)
氪氣石	kryptonite
氪肝	(slang) to put in long hours, typically late into the night, playing a video game (rather than pay for power-ups)
氪金	to make an in-app purchase in a game
氫	hydrogen (chemistry)
氫化	hydrogenation
氫化氰	hydrocyanic acid; hydrogen cyanide
氫原子	hydrogen atom
氫彈	H-bomb; hydrogen bomb
氫氟烴	hydrofluorocarbon
氫氟酸	hydrofluoric acid HF
氫氣	hydrogen (gas)
氫氣球	hydrogen balloon
氫氧	oxyhydrogen
氫氧化	(bound form) hydroxide of ...
氫氧化物	a hydroxide
氫氧化鈉	sodium hydroxide NaOH; caustic soda
氫氧化鈣	calcium hydroxide Ca(OH)2; slaked lime
氫氧化鉀	potassium hydroxide
氫氧化鋁	aluminum hydroxide
氫氧化鎂	magnesium hydroxide Mg(OH)2
氫氧根	hydroxide radical (-OH)
氫氧根離子	hydroxide ion OH-
氫氧離子	hydroxide ion OH-
氫氯酸	hydrochloric acid HCl; also written 鹽酸|盐酸[yan2 suan1]
氫溴酸	hydrobromic acid HBr
氫能源	hydrogen energy (energy derived from using hydrogen as a fuel)
氫酶	hydrogenase (enzyme)
氫鍵	hydrogen bond
氫鹵酸	hydrohalic acid (e.g. hydrofluoric acid HF 氫氟酸|氢氟酸[qing1 fu2 suan1], hydrochloric acid HCl 鹽酸|盐酸[yan2 suan1] etc)
氬	argon (chemistry)
氬弧焊	argon arc welding; TIG welding
氮	nitrogen (chemistry)
氮化鎵	gallium nitride (GaN)
氮氣	nitrogen
氮氧化物	nitrogen oxide
氮泵	pre-workout (supplement)
氮烯	nitrene (chemistry)
氮芥氣	nitrogen mustard
氯	chlorine (chemistry)
氯丁橡膠	neoprene
氯乙烯	vinyl chloride (chloroethene C2H3Cl)
氯仿	chloroform (trichloromethane CHCl3)
氯化氫	hydrogen chloride HCl
氯化氰	cyanogen chloride CNCl
氯化物	chloride
氯化苦	chloropicrin
氯化鈉	sodium chloride NaCl; common salt
氯化鈣	calcium chloride
氯化鉀	potassium chloride
氯化銀	silver chloride AgCl
氯化銨	ammonium chloride
氯化鋁	aluminum chloride
氯化鋅	zinc chloride
氯單質	molecular chlorine
氯喹	chloroquine (antimalarial drug)
氯安酮	ketamine
氯氣	chlorine
氯甲烷	methyl chloride CH3Cl
氯痤瘡	chloracne
氯磷定	pralidoxime chloride
氯綸	polyvinyl chloride fiber; PRC brand name for PVC fiber
氯胺酮	ketamine (C13H16ClNO)
氯苯	chlorobenzene C6H5Cl
氯酸	chloric acid HClO3; chlorate
氯酸鈉	sodium chlorate NaClO3
氯酸鉀	potassium chlorate
氯黴素	(pharmacology) chloramphenicol
氰	cyanogen (CN)2; ethanedinitrile; Taiwan pr. [qing1]
氰化物	cyanide
氰化鈉	sodium cyanide NaCN
氰化鉀	potassium cyanide KCN
氰基	cyan
氰基細菌	cyanobacteria
氰氨化鈣	calcium cyanamide
氰溴甲苯	cyanobenzyl bromide
氰苷	cyanogenetic glucoside
氰酸	cyanic acid HCN
氰酸鹽	cyanate
氳	used in 氤氳|氤氲[yin1 yun1]
水	surname Shui; Shui ethnic group
水上	on water; aquatic
水上摩托	jet ski
水上摩托車	jet ski
水上樂園	water park
水上芭蕾	synchronized swimming
水上運動	water sports; aquatic motion; movement over water
水上飛板	flyboard
水上飛機	seaplane
水下	under the water; submarine
水中撈月	(lit.) to scoop the moon out of the water (idiom)
水中毒	water intoxication; water poisoning
水井	(water) well
水亮	moist and glossy; wet look (of lipstick)
水仙	daffodil; narcissus
水仙花	daffodil; narcissus
水位	water level
水俁	Minamata (city in Japan)
水俁病	Minamata disease (neurological disease caused by mercury poisoning due to industrial pollution in Japan, first identified in 1956)
水兵	enlisted sailor in navy
水冰	water ice (i.e. frozen H2O)
水冷	to water-cool
水凝膠	hydrogel
水凼	pond
水分	moisture content; (fig.) overstatement; padding
水刑	water-boarding (torture)
水刑逼供	water-boarding, interrogation technique used by CIA
水利	water conservancy; irrigation works
水利家	water manager; hydraulic engineer
水利工程	hydraulic engineering
水利部	Ministry of Water Resources (PRC)
水到渠成	lit. where water flows, a canal is formed (idiom)
水力	hydraulic power
水力壓裂	hydraulic fracturing; fracking
水力學	hydraulics
水力發電	hydroelectricity
水力發電站	hydroelectric power plant
水力鼓風	hydraulic bellows
水務	water supply
水務局	(municipal) water authority
水勺	ladle; dipper (for water)
水化	to hydrate
水印	watermark
水原	Suweon City, capital of Gyeonggi province 京畿道[Jing1 ji1 dao4], South Korea
水原市	Suweon City, capital of Gyeonggi province 京畿道[Jing1 ji1 dao4], South Korea
水合	hydration reaction
水合物	hydrate; hydrated compound
水單	receipt; itemized bill; transaction record
水圈	(geography) hydrosphere
水土	water and soil; surface water; natural environment (extended meaning)
水土不服	not acclimatized
水土保持	soil conservation
水坑	puddle; water hole; sump
水垢	limescale
水城區	Shuicheng, a district of Liupanshui City 六盤水市|六盘水市[Liu4 pan2 shui3 Shi4], Guizhou
水域	waters; body of water
水培	to grow plants hydroponically
水培法	hydroponics
水基	water-based
水塔	water tower
水塘	pool
水墨	ink (used in painting)
水墨畫	ink and wash painting
水壓	water pressure
水壩	dam; dike
水壺	kettle; canteen; watering can
水天一色	water and sky merge in one color (idiom)
水客	smuggler, esp. of electronic goods from Macao or Hong Kong to Guangdong
水害	flood damage
水富市	Shuifu, a county-level city in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
水師	navy (in Qing times)
水幕	water screen (screen formed of sprayed water droplets, used for displaying projected images, for temperature control, or for air purification)
水平	horizontal; level; a standard; a level (of ability, development etc)
水平儀	level (device to determine horizontal); spirit level; surveyor's level
水平尺	spirit level
水平尾翼	(aviation) tailplane; horizontal stabilizer
水平軸	horizontal shaft; horizontal axis (math.)
水平面	horizontal plane; level surface; water level
水床	waterbed; water mattress
水底	the bottom of a body of water
水底相機	underwater camera
水庫	reservoir
水彈槍	gel blaster; gel gun
水彩	watercolor
水彩畫	watercolor; aquarelle
水彩筆	colored markers
水律蛇	Oriental rat snake (Ptyas mucosus)
水性	swimming ability
水性楊花	fickle (woman)
水怪	sea monster; aquatic monster
水患	flooding; inundation
水戶	Mito (city in Japan)
水手	sailor; seaman; mariner
水手服	Japanese sailor-style schoolgirl uniform; sailor fuku
水文	hydrology
水族	collective term for aquatic animals
水族箱	aquarium; fish tank
水族館	aquarium (open to the public)
水星	(astronomy) Mercury
水晶	crystal
水晶宮	The Crystal Palace
水晶球	crystal ball
水晶餃	crystal dumpling, a type of dumpling popular in southern China and Taiwan, named for its translucent, slightly chewy wrapper made with tapioca starch
水暖工	plumber; heating engineer
水曜日	Wednesday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
水杉	metasequoia
水果	fruit
水果刀	paring knife; fruit knife
水果撈	fruit medley in coconut milk – a chilled dessert consisting of assorted fresh fruits served in sweetened coconut milk, yogurt or fruit syrup
水果酒	fruit wine
水柱	stream of water (as from a fountain or a faucet); jet of water
水桶	bucket
水梨	Asian pear; sand pear (Pyrus pyrifolia)
水棲	aquatic; living in water
水椰	nipa palm (Nypa fruticans)
水楊酸	salicylic acid
水槍	water pistol (toy); water gun; sprinkler
水槽	sink
水橫枝	cape jasmine (Gardenia jasminoides), esp. grown as bonsai
水母	jellyfish; medusa
水母體	jellyfish; medusa
水氣	water vapor; steam
水汀	steam (Shanghainese)
水池	pond; pool; sink
水污染	water pollution
水汪汪	watery; waterlogged (soil); limpid
水汽	water vapor; steam; moisture
水泡	bubble; blister
水波	wave; (water) ripple
水波爐	superheated steam oven
水泥	cement
水泥地	concrete-paved surface; concrete floor
水泵	water pump
水洩不通	(lit.) not one drop can trickle through (idiom)
水流	river; stream
水淋淋	dripping wet
水深	depth (of waterway); sounding
水深火熱	deep water and scorching fire; abyss of suffering (idiom)
水淺養不住大魚	lit. shallow waters cannot harbor big fish (idiom)
水清無魚	lit. water that is too clean holds no fish (idiom)
水渠	canal
水源	water source; water supply; headwaters of a river
水準	level (of achievement etc); standard; level (surveying)
水準儀	level (device to determine horizontal); spirit level; surveyor's level
水溝	gutter; sewer
水溫	water temperature
水溫表	engine temperature gauge; coolant temperature gauge
水溶	water soluble
水溶性	soluble (in water); solubility
水滴	drop of water
水滴石穿	dripping water penetrates the stone (idiom); constant perseverance yields success
水滴魚	blobfish (Psychrolutes marcidus)
水滸	edge of the water; shore or sea, lake or river; seashore
水滸傳	Water Margin or Outlaws of the Marsh by Shi Nai'an 施耐庵[Shi1 Nai4 an1], one of the Four Classic Novels of Chinese literature
水滸全傳	Water Margin or Outlaws of the Marsh by Shi Nai'an 施耐庵, one of the Four Classic Novels of Chinese literature
水滸後傳	Water Margin Sequel, by Chen Chen 陳忱|陈忱[Chen2 Chen2]
水漉漉	dripping wet
水漬	water spot; water stain; wet spot
水漲船高	the tide rises, the boat floats (idiom); fig. to change with the overall trend
水潭	water pool; pond
水火不容	completely incompatible; lit. incompatible as fire and water
水火無情	fire and flood have no mercy (idiom)
水災	flood; flood damage
水炮	water cannon
水炮車	water cannon vehicle, common name for specialized crowd management vehicle 人群管理特別用途車|人群管理特别用途车[ren2 qun2 guan3 li3 te4 bie2 yong4 tu2 che1]
水煎包	pan-fried bun (covered and steamed after pan-frying), usually with pork or vegetable filling
水煙	shredded tobacco for water pipes
水煙壺	bong; water pipe (for tobacco etc); hookah
水煙管	bong; water pipe (for tobacco etc); hookah
水煙袋	water bong; water pipe; hookah
水煮蛋	boiled egg
水煮魚	Sichuan poached sliced fish in hot chili oil
水牛	water buffalo
水牛兒	(dialect) snail
水牢	prison cell containing water, in which prisoners are forced to be partly immersed
水猴子	mythical monster that preys on swimmers
水獺	otter
水玉	crystal; old word for 水晶
水玻璃	(chemistry) water glass
水珠	droplet; dewdrop
水球	water polo
水球場	water polo pool
水瓶座	Aquarius (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
水生	aquatic (plant, animal)
水產	aquatic product
水產品	aquatic products (including fish, crabs, seaweed etc)
水產展	seafood show (trade fair)
水產業	aquaculture
水產養殖	aquaculture
水田	paddy field; rice paddy
水田芥	watercress
水痘	chickenpox; Varicella zoster (med.)
水療	hydrotherapy; aquatherapy
水皰	blister
水盂	water pot or goblet (for Chinese calligraphy)
水盆	basin
水相	aqueous solution
水碾	water mill
水磨溝區	Shuimogou, a district of Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
水磨石	terrazzo
水神	river God
水禽	waterfowl
水稻	rice; paddy
水窪	puddle
水立方	Water Cube, nickname of Beijing National Aquatics Center 北京國家游泳中心|北京国家游泳中心, swimming venue of Beijing 2008 Olympic Games
水筲	well bucket; pail made of bamboo strips
水管	water pipe
水管工	plumber
水管工人	plumber
水管麵	tube pasta (e.g. penne, rigatoni, ziti); macaroni
水箱	water tank; radiator (automobile); cistern
水簾洞	cave with a waterfall at its mouth
水系	drainage system
水紋	ripples
水絲	(silver) of low purity; low grade
水綠	light green
水缸	water jar
水罐	container for holding and pouring water (or other liquid): jug, pitcher, clay jar, jerry can, water bottle etc
水翼船	hydrofoil
水老鴉	common name for cormorant
水耕法	hydroponics
水肺	scuba
水能	hydroelectric power
水能源	hydroelectric power
水能載舟，亦能覆舟	lit. water may keep the boat afloat but may also sink it (proverb)
水腫	(medicine) to suffer from edema (dropsy)
水至清則無魚，人至察則無徒	(saying) water that is too clear has no fish, and one who is too severe has no friends
水花	spray of water; splash; (dialect) chickenpox
水草	aquatic plants
水菖蒲	Acorus calamus; sweet sedge or sweet flag
水華	algal bloom; water bloom
水落歸槽	spilt water returns to the trough (idiom); fig. people remember where they belong
水落石出	(lit.) as the water recedes, the rocks appear (idiom)
水著	(HK) swimsuit (loanword from Japanese "mizugi")
水葫蘆	water hyacinth (Pontederia crassipes)
水蒲葦鶯	(bird species of China) sedge warbler (Acrocephalus schoenobaenus)
水蒸氣	vapor
水蕹菜	water spinach or ong choy (Ipomoea aquatica), used as a vegetable in south China and southeast Asia
水蘿蔔	small red radish
水虎魚	piranha (fish)
水處理	water treatment
水蛇	water snake
水蛇座	Hydrus (constellation)
水蛇腰	slender and supple waist; lithe body; feminine pose
水蛭	leech
水蛭素	hirudin
水蜜桃	honey peach (juicy sweet peach variety)
水螅	Hydra (freshwater polyp)
水螅體	sessile polyp; sea anemone
水行俠	Aquaman, DC comic book superhero (Tw)
水表	water meter; indicator of water level
水袖	flowing sleeves (part of theatrical costume)
水解	hydrolysis (chemical reaction with water)
水豚	capybara
水貂	mink (Mustela lutreola, M. vison)
水貨	smuggled goods; unauthorized goods
水費	water bill
水資源	water resource
水質	water quality
水質污染	water pollution
水路	waterway
水軍	(archaic) navy
水輪	waterwheel; millwheel
水逆	(astrology) Mercury retrograde (abbr. for 水星逆行[shui3 xing1 ni4 xing2]); (coll.) to have a period of bad luck
水運	waterborne transport
水道	watercourse (river, canal, drain etc); water route
水邊	edge of the water; waterside; shore (of sea, lake or river)
水鄉	patchwork of waterways, esp. in Jiangsu
水量	volume of water; quantity of flow
水鈸	splash cymbal (drum kit component)
水銀	mercury; quicksilver
水銀燈	mercury-vapor lamp
水門	water valve; sluice gate; (aviation) water salute
水門事件	Watergate scandal
水門汀	cement (Shanghainese) (loanword)
水閘	sluice; water gate; waterlocks
水陸	water and land; by water and land (transport); amphibian
水陸交通	water and land transport
水陸兩用	amphibious (vehicle)
水陸師	army and navy (in Qing times)
水障礙	water hazard (golf)
水雉	(bird species of China) pheasant-tailed jacana (Hydrophasianus chirurgus)
水雞	moorhen (genus Gallinula); gallinule; frog
水雷	naval mine
水電	hydroelectric power; plumbing and electricity
水電工	plumbing and electrical work
水電站	hydroelectric power plant
水霧	mist
水靈	(of fruit etc) fresh; (of a person etc) full of life; healthy-looking
水面	water surface
水飽	feeling full from drinking a lot of water or consuming a liquid-heavy meal
水餃	boiled dumpling (made by wrapping a pasta skin around a filling, like ravioli)
水馬	water-filled barrier
水體	body of water
水鳥	waterbird
水鵓鴣	turtle dove or similar bird
水鷚	(bird species of China) water pipit (Anthus spinoletta)
水鹿	sambar (Cervus unicolor)
水龍	hose; pipe; fire hose
水龍卷	waterspout (meteorology)
水龍帶	layflat industrial hose; fire hose
水龍頭	faucet; tap
氵	"water" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 85), occurring in 沒|没[mei2], 法[fa3], 流[liu2] etc
永	forever; always; perpetual
永不	never; will never
永不生鏽的螺絲釘	a "screw that never rusts" – metaphor used in CCP propaganda to praise loyal, selfless contributors, famously applied to model worker Lei Feng 雷鋒|雷锋[Lei2 Feng1]
永世	eternal; forever
永久	everlasting; perpetual; lasting
永久凍土	permafrost
永久和平	lasting peace; enduring peace
永久居民	permanent resident
永久居留權	permanent residency
永久居留證	permanent residency permit
永久性	permanent
永久磁鐵	permanent magnet
永久虛電路	Permanent Virtual Circuit; PVC
永仁縣	Yongren, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
永修縣	Yongxiu, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
永凍土	permafrost
永別	to part forever; eternal parting (i.e. death)
永動機	perpetual motion machine
永勝縣	Yongsheng, a county in Lijiang City 麗江市|丽江市[Li4 jiang1 Shi4], Yunnan
永吉縣	Yongji, a county in Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
永和市	Yonghe or Yungho city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
永和縣	Yonghe, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
永善縣	Yongshan, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
永嘉	Yongjia county in Wenzhou 溫州|温州[Wen1 zhou1], Zhejiang
永嘉縣	Yongjia, a county in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
永嘉郡	Yongjia prefecture in Zhejiang
永垂不朽	eternal glory; will never be forgotten
永城市	Yongcheng, a county-level city in Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
永壽縣	Yongshou, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
永存	everlasting; to endure forever
永安	Yong'an, the name of numerous other places
永安市	Yong'an, a county-level city in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
永定區	Yongding, a district of Zhangjiajie City 張家界市|张家界市[Zhang1 jia1 jie4 Shi4], Hunan
永定河	Yongding River, the largest river flowing through Beijing
永定門	Yongdingmen, front gate of the outer section of Beijing's old city wall, torn down in the 1950s and reconstructed in 2005
永寧縣	Yongning, a county in Yinchuan City 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4], Ningxia
永居	permanent residency (abbr. for 永久居留權|永久居留权[yong3 jiu3 ju1 liu2 quan2])
永川區	Yongchuan, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
永州市	Yongzhou, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
永平縣	Yongping, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
永年區	Yongnian, a district of Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
永康區	Yongkang, a district of Tainan City 臺南市|台南市[Tai2 nan2 Shi4], Taiwan
永康市	Yongkang, a county-level city in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
永德縣	Yongde, a county in Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
永志不忘	never to be forgotten
永恆	eternal; everlasting; fig. to pass into eternity (i.e. to die)
永新縣	Yongxin, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
永昌縣	Yongchang, a county in Jinchang City 金昌市[Jin1 chang1 Shi4], Gansu
永春縣	Yongchun, a county in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
永樂	Yongle Emperor, reign name of third Ming emperor Zhu Di 朱棣[Zhu1 Di4] (1360-1424), reigned 1403-1424, temple name 明成祖[Ming2 Cheng2 zu3]
永樂大典	the Yongle Great Encyclopedia (1408)
永永遠遠	for ever and ever
永泰縣	Yongtai, a county in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
永清縣	Yongqing, a county in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
永濟市	Yongji, a county-level city in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
永無寧日	(in such circumstances) there will be no peace
永無止境	(idiom) without end; never-ending
永珍	Vientiane, capital of Laos (Tw)
永生	to live forever; eternal life; all one's life
永登縣	Yongdeng, a county in Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
永眠	to pass away; to die; to rest eternally
永矢	forever
永磁	(physics) permanent magnetism; (attributive) permanent-magnet
永磁體	permanent magnet
永福縣	Yongfu, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
永續	sustainable; perpetual
永續城市	sustainable city (Tw)
永興縣	Yongxing, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
永訣	to part forever; eternal parting (i.e. death)
永訣式	funeral
永豐縣	Yongfeng, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
永貞內禪	Yongzhen abdication of 805
永貞革新	Yongzhen Reform, Tang dynasty failed reform movement of 805 led by Wang Shuwen 王叔文[Wang2 Shu1 wen2]
永逝	gone forever; to die
永遠	forever; eternal
永靖縣	Yongjing, a county in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
永順縣	Yongshun, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
氹仔	Taipa, an island of Macau
氽	to float; to deep-fry
氽湯	to prepare a soup
氽燙	to blanch (cooking)
氾	used in given names and as a surname
氾濫	to overflow; to inundate; to flood; (fig.) to proliferate unchecked
氿	mountain spring
汀	sandbar; shoal; sandbank
汀曲	a bend in a stream
汀洲	shoal; islet in a stream
汀渚	shoal; islet in a stream
汀線	lines formed by waves on a beach
汁	juice
汁水	(dialect) juice
汁液	juice
求	to seek; to look for; to request
求之不得	lit. seek but fail to get (idiom); fig. exactly what one’s been looking for
求乞	to beg
求人	to ask for help; to ask a favor; to recruit talented people
求人不如求己	if you want sth done well, do it yourself (idiom)
求仁得仁	lit. to seek virtue and acquire it (idiom)
求值	(math.) to evaluate (an expression, function etc)
求偶	to seek a marriage partner; (of an animal) to seek a mate; to court
求償	to seek compensation; indemnity
求全責備	to demand perfection (idiom)
求助	to request help; to appeal (for help)
求助於人	to call upon others for help
求取	to seek after; to strive for
求同	to seek consensus; to seek conformity
求同存異	(idiom) to put aside differences and work together; to seek common ground and cooperate
求告	to implore; to beseech
求和	to sue for peace; to look for a draw (chess); summation (math.)
求好心切	to demand the highest standards of sb (or oneself) (idiom)
求婚	to propose marriage
求子	(of a childless couple) to pray for a son; to try to have a child
求存	survival; the struggle to eke out a living
求學	to pursue one's studies; to attend school; to seek knowledge
求導	to find the derivative (math.)
求得	to ask for sth and receive it; to try to obtain
求情	to plea for leniency; to ask for a favor
求情告饒	to beg for forgiveness (idiom)
求愛	to woo
求才	to seek talented individuals; to recruit talent
求援	to ask for help
求救	to seek help (when in distress or having difficulties)
求教	to ask for advice; seeking instruction
求是	to seek the truth
求根	(math.) to extract a root
求歡	to proposition a woman
求爺爺告奶奶	lit. to beg grandpa and call on grandma (idiom)
求生	to seek survival; to possess the will to live
求生意志	will to live; will to survive
求田問舍	lit. to be interested exclusively in the acquisition of estate (idiom)
求知	anxious to learn; keen for knowledge
求知慾	desire for knowledge
求籤	(folk religion) to divine by drawing fortune sticks or divination lots
求索	to search for sth; to seek; to quest
求職	to seek employment
求職信	cover letter; job application
求職者	job applicant
求見	to ask to see (sb); to request a meeting (with sb)
求親	to make an offer of marriage (to another family on behalf of one's son or daughter)
求親靠友	to rely on the help of relatives and friends
求解	to require a solution; to seek to solve (an equation)
求證	to seek proof; to seek confirmation
求賢若渴	(idiom) to eagerly seek talented people
求購	to seek to purchase; to be looking to buy (sth)
求醫	to seek medical treatment; to see a doctor
求錘得錘	(neologism c. 2017) (slang) to demand proof of what one believes to be an unfounded accusation only to have irrefutable evidence duly supplied
求饒	to beg forgiveness
汆	quick-boil; to boil for a short time
汈	(used in place names)
汊	branching stream
汋	to pour
汍	shed tears
汏	to wash (dialect)
汐	night tides; evening ebbtide; Taiwan pr. [xi4]
汐止	Xizhi or Hsichih city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
汐止市	Xizhi or Hsichih city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
汔	near
汕	bamboo fish trap
汕尾市	Shanwei, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
汕頭大學	Shantou University
汕頭市	Shantou, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
汗	perspiration; sweat
汗國	khanate (Mongol state)
汗如雨下	sweating like rain (idiom); to perspire profusely; sweating like a pig
汗孔	sweat pore
汗斑	common name for 花斑癬|花斑癣[hua1 ban1 xuan3], tinea versicolor
汗毛	hair; soft hair; down
汗毛孔	sweat pore
汗水	sweat; perspiration
汗津津	sweaty
汗流浹背	to sweat profusely (idiom); drenched in sweat
汗液	sweat
汗漫	vast; without boundaries; power (of a river or ocean)
汗牛充棟	lit. enough books to make a pack-ox sweat or to fill a house to the rafters (idiom); fig. many books
汗珠	beads of sweat
汗珠子	beads of sweat
汗粒	bead of sweat
汗背心	tank top; sleeveless undershirt
汗腺	sweat gland
汗臭	body odor
汗血寶馬	Ferghana horse
汗血馬	(in ancient times) Ferghana horse; (later) fine horse
汗衫	vest; undershirt; shirt
汗褂兒	undershirt
汗褟兒	undershirt (dialect)
汗顏	to blush with shame (literary)
汗馬	(lit.) to exert one's horse; (fig.) war exploits
汗馬功勞	war exploits; (fig.) heroic contribution
汗騰格里峰	Khan Tengri or Mt Hantengri on the border between Xinjiang and Kazakhstan
汛	high water; flood; to sprinkle water
汛情	water levels during the flood season
汛期	flood season
汜	stream which returns after branching
汝	thou
汝南縣	Runan, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
汝城縣	Rucheng, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
汝州市	Ruzhou, a county-level city in Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
汝陽縣	Ruyang, a county in Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
汞	mercury (chemistry)
汞溴紅	merbromin; mercurochrome
汞燈	mercury-vapor lamp
汞齊	amalgam; mercury alloy
江	surname Jiang; (bound form) Yangtze River
江八點	Jiang Zemin's 江澤民|江泽民[Jiang1 Ze2 min2] eight propositions on developing relations between the two sides of the Taiwan Straits, presented in a 1995 speech
江北	Chongqing's main airport
江北區	Jiangbei, a district of Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
江南	region of China immediately south of the lower Yangtze River, including Shanghai and adjoining parts of Jiangsu, Anhui, Jiangxi and Zhejiang
江南區	Jiangnan, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
江南四大才子	Four great southern talents of the Ming, namely: Tang Bohu 唐伯虎, Zhu Zhishan 祝枝山, Wen Zhengming 文徵明|文征明 and Xu Zhenqing 徐禎卿|徐祯卿
江南大學	Jiangnan University (in Jiangsu Province)
江南水鄉	patchwork of waterways, esp. in Jiangsu
江南省	name of Qing dynasty province covering south Jiangsu, south Anhui and north Zhejiang provinces, with capital at Nanjing
江原道	Gangwon Province of Korea during Joseon Dynasty
江口縣	Jiangkou, a county in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
江城區	Jiangcheng, a district of Yangjiang City 陽江市|阳江市[Yang2 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
江城哈尼族彝族自治縣	Jiangcheng Hani and Yi Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
江夏區	Jiangxia, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
江孜縣	Gyantse, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
江安縣	Jiang'an, a county in Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
江寧區	Jiangning, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
江山	rivers and mountains; landscape; country
江山市	Jiangshan, a county-level city in Quzhou City 衢州市[Qu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
江山易改稟性難移	rivers and mountains are easy to change, man's character much harder
江山易改，本性難移	it is easier to change mountains and rivers than to alter one's character (idiom)
江岸區	Jiang'an, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
江川區	Jiangchuan, a district of Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
江州區	Jiangzhou, a district of Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
江平	Jiang Ping (1920-), academic lawyer, writer on ethnicity and legal systems
江心	middle of a river
江戶	Edo (old name of Tokyo)
江水	river water
江永縣	Jiangyong, a county in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
江河	Yangtze and Yellow rivers
江河日下	rivers pour away by the day (idiom); going from bad to worse
江河湖海	rivers, lakes and oceans; bodies of water
江油市	Jiangyou, a county-level city in Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
江洋大盜	(idiom) infamous pirate; (by extension) notorious bandit or robber
江津區	Jiangjin, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
江流	river; river flow; current
江浙	Jiangsu and Zhejiang (abbr. for 江蘇|江苏[Jiang1 su1] + 浙江[Zhe4 jiang1])
江浦	Jiangpu county, old name of Pukou district 浦口區|浦口区[Pu3 kou3 qu1] of Nanjing, Jiangsu
江浦縣	Jiangpu county, old name of Pukou district 浦口區|浦口区[Pu3 kou3 qu1] of Nanjing, Jiangsu
江海區	Jianghai, a district of Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
江淮官話	Jianghuai Mandarin
江湖	rivers and lakes
江湖一點訣	special technique; trick of the trade; knack
江湖藝人	itinerant entertainer
江湖醫生	unlicensed doctor; quack; back-alley or itinerant practitioner
江湖騙子	swindler; itinerant con-man
江源	river source
江源區	Jiangyuan, a district of Baishan City 白山市[Bai2 shan1 Shi4], Jilin
江漢區	Jianghan, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
江澤民	Jiang Zemin (1926–2022), politician, president of PRC 1993–2003
江珧柱	(seafood) adductor muscle of a scallop or pen shell
江畔	riverbank
江米	polished glutinous rice
江米酒	glutinous rice wine; fermented glutinous rice
江華瑤族自治縣	Jianghua Yao Autonomous County, in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
江蘇省	Jiangsu Province, capital Nanjing 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4] (short name 蘇|苏[Su1])
江蘺	red algae; Gracilaria, several species, some edible; Japanese ogonori
江西省	Jiangxi Province, capital Nanchang 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4] (short name 灨|赣[Gan4])
江豚	river dolphin
江豬	Chinese river dolphin, Lipotes vexillifer
江輪	river steamer
江達縣	Jomda, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
江邊	river bank
江郎才盡	Jiang Yan has exhausted his talent (idiom)
江都區	Jiangdu, a district of Yangzhou City 揚州市|扬州市[Yang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
江門市	Jiangmen, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
江陰市	Jiangyin, a county-level city in Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
江陵縣	Jiangling, a county in Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
江陽區	Jiangyang, a district of Luzhou City 瀘州市|泸州市[Lu2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
江青	Jiang Qing (1914-1991), Mao Zedong's fourth wife and leader of the Gang of Four
江面	the surface of the river
池	pond; reservoir; moat
池中物	person of no particular talent
池塘	pool; pond
池子	pond; bathhouse pool; dance floor of a ballroom
池州市	Chizhou, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
池沼	pool; pond
池湯	large pool in a bathhouse
池田	Ikeda (Japanese surname)
池鷺	(bird species of China) Chinese pond heron (Ardeola bacchus)
池鹽	salt from a salt lake
污	dirty; filthy; foul
污名	bad reputation; stigma
污名化	to stigmatize
污吏	a corrupt official
污垢	dirt; filth; grime
污損	to contaminate
污染	(lit. and fig.) to pollute; to contaminate
污染區	contaminated area
污染物	pollutant
污水	sewage
污水坑	cesspit
污水管	sewage pipe
污水處理廠	water treatment plant
污泥	mud; sludge
污漬	stain
污濁	dirty; muddy; foul (sewer)
污痕	blot
污穢	(literary) dirty; filthy; (literary) dirt; filth
污糟	filthy; unhygienic; squalid
污衊	to slander; to smear; to tarnish
污言穢語	(idiom) filthy speech; obscenities
污跡	blotch; stain
污辱	to humiliate; to insult; to tarnish
污點	stain; taint
汧	name of a river flowing through Gansu to Shaanxi Province
汨	name of a river, the southern tributary of Miluo river 汨羅江|汨罗江[Mi4 luo2 jiang1]
汨水	name of a river, the southern tributary of Miluo river 汨羅江|汨罗江[Mi4 luo2 jiang1]
汨羅市	Miluo, a county-level city in Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
汨羅江	Miluo River in Hunan province, tributary of the Xiang River 湘江[Xiang1 Jiang1], flows into Dongting Lake 洞庭湖[Dong4 ting2 Hu2]
汩	confused; extinguished; (onom.) used in 汩汩[gu3 gu3]
汩汩	(onom.) gurgling sound of flowing water
汪	expanse of water; ooze; (onom.) bark
汪嘯風	Wang Xiaofeng (1944-), fourth governor of Hainan
汪星人	dog (Internet slang)
汪東城	Jiro Wang (1981-), Taiwanese singer and actor
汪汪	gleaming with tears; woof woof (sound of a dog barking)
汪洋	vast body of water
汪清縣	Wangqing, a county in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
汪精衛	Wang Jingwei (1883–1944), Chinese politician who later collaborated with Japan during World War II
汪道涵	Wang Daohan (1915-2005), former president of the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits
汫	used in 汫濙|汫𣸨[jing3 ying2]
汫濙	meandering
汭	river-bend
汰	to discard; to eliminate
汰舊換新	out with the old and in with the new (idiom)
汲	to draw (water)
汲取	to draw; to derive; to absorb
汲引	to draw water; (fig.) to promote sb to a more senior position
汲水	to draw water
汳	name of an ancient river in Henan
汴	name of a river in Henan; Henan
汴京	Bianjing, Northern Song capital, now called Kaifeng 開封|开封[Kai1 feng1], Henan
汴州	old name of Kaifeng 開封|开封[Kai1 feng1]
汴梁	old name of Kaifeng 開封|开封[Kai1 feng1]
汶	Wen River in northwest Sichuan (same as 汶川)
汶上	Wenshang County in Jining 濟寧|济宁[Ji3 ning2], Shandong
汶上縣	Wenshang, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
汶川地震	Great Sichuan Earthquake (2008)
汶川大地震	Great Sichuan Earthquake (2008)
汶川縣	Wenchuan, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
汶萊	(Tw) Brunei
汷	name of an ancient river in Hubei
決	to decide; to determine; to execute (sb)
決不	not at all; simply (can) not
決勝	to determine victory; to obtain victory
決勝千里	to be able to plan victory from a thousand miles away (idiom)
決勝負	to determine the outcome; to determine success or failure
決口	(of a watercourse) to breach its banks; (of a dam) to burst
決定	to decide; to determine; to make up one's mind
決定性	decisive; conclusive
決定論	determinism
決心	determination; resolution; determined
決意	to be determined
決戰	decisive battle; to fight a decisive battle
決斷	to make a decision; resolution; decisiveness
決明	(botany) cassia
決明子	(botany) cassia seed
決策	strategic decision; decision-making; policy decision
決策樹	decision tree
決策者	policymaker
決算	final account; to calculate the final bill
決絕	to sever all relations with sb; determined; decisive
決裂	to rupture; to burst open; to break
決議	a resolution; to pass a resolution
決議案	resolution (of a meeting)
決賽	finals (of a competition)
決選名單	short list
決隄	(of a watercourse) to breach its dike; (of dikes) to collapse
決鬥	to duel; a duel; decisive struggle
汽	steam; vapor
汽修	auto repair
汽化	to boil; to vaporize
汽化器	carburetor; vaporizer
汽提	stripping (chemistry)
汽暖	gas heating
汽水	soda pop; carbonated soft drink
汽油	gasoline
汽油機	gasoline engine
汽燈	gas lamp
汽碾	steamroller
汽笛	steam whistle; ship horn
汽缸	cylinder (of steam engine or internal combustion engine)
汽船	steamboat; steamship
汽艇	motorboat
汽車	car; automobile; bus
汽車展覽會	car show; automobile expo
汽車廠	car factory
汽車戲院	drive-in theater
汽車技工	auto mechanic
汽車旅館	motel
汽車炸彈	car bomb
汽車站	bus stop; bus station
汽車號牌	vehicle registration plate; license plate
汽輪機	steam turbine
汽輪發電機	steam turbine electric generator
汽運	bus transport
汽配	auto parts
汽酒	sparkling wine
汽鍋	steamer (for cooking)
汽閥	steam valve
汾	name of a river
汾河	Fen River
汾西縣	Fenxi, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
汾酒	Fenjiu (sorghum-based Chinese liquor)
汾陽市	Fenyang, a county-level city in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
沁	to seep; to percolate
沁人心脾	(lit.) to penetrate deeply into the heart (idiom)
沁入	(usually of sth intangible) to seep into; to permeate
沁水縣	Qinshui, a county in Jincheng City 晉城市|晋城市[Jin4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
沁源縣	Qinyuan, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
沁縣	Qin County or Qinxian, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
沁陽市	Qinyang, a county-level city in Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
沂	Yi River, Shandong
沂南縣	Yinan, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
沂水縣	Yishui, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
沂源縣	Yiyuan, a county in Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
沃	fertile; rich; to irrigate
沃倫	Warren (name)
沃倫·巴菲特	Warren Buffett (1930-), the Sage of Omaha, US investor and philanthropist, principal owner of holding company Berkshire Hathaway
沃克斯豪爾	Vauxhall (English car brand and city)
沃土	fertile land
沃壤	fertile soil
沃州	Vaud province of Switzerland
沃水	Wo river in Shanxi
沃灌	to irrigate; to wash with water
沃爾夫	Wolf, Woolf (name)
沃爾夫斯堡	Wolfsburg
沃爾夫獎	the Wolf Prize (for science and arts)
沃爾沃	Volvo (Swedish car company)
沃爾特·惠特曼	Walt Whitman (1819-1892), American poet, essayist and journalist
沃爾瑪	Walmart (retailer)
沃爾芬森	Wolfson, Wulfsohn etc (name)
沃特森	Watson (name)
沃羅湼日	Voronezh, city in the southwest of European Russia
沃衍	rich and fertile (soil)
沃達豐	Vodafone (telephone company)
沃野	fertile land
沃頓	Wharton (name)
沄	rushing of a torrent
沅	Yuan river in Guizhou and Hunan
沅水	Yuan River
沅江	Yuan River, one of the largest rivers in Hunan
沅江九肋	rare talent; lit. legendary nine-ribbed turtle of Yuan river
沅江市	Yuanjiang, a county-level city in Yiyang City 益陽市|益阳市[Yi4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
沅陵縣	Yuanling, a county in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
沆	a ferry; fog; flowing
沆瀣	(literary) evening mist
沆瀣一氣	to act in collusion (idiom); in cahoots with
沇	surname Yan
沈	surname Shen
沈丘縣	Shenqiu, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
沈北新區	Shenbei New District, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
沈國放	Shen Guofang (1952-), PRC assistant minister of foreign affairs (2003-2005)
沈從文	Shen Congwen (1902-1988), novelist
沈復	Shen Fu (1763-c. 1810), Qing dynasty writer, author of Six Records of a Floating Life 浮生六記|浮生六记[Fu2 Sheng1 Liu4 Ji4]
沈括	Shen Kuo (1031-1095), Chinese polymath, scientist and statesman of Song dynasty, author of Dream Pool Essays 夢溪筆談|梦溪笔谈[Meng4 Xi1 Bi3 tan2]
沈瑩	Shen Ying of Wu, governor (268-280) of coastal province of Wu and compiler of Seaboard Geographic Gazetteer 臨海水土誌|临海水土志
沈約	Shen Yue (441-513), writer and historian during Liang of Southern dynasties 南朝梁, compiler of History of Song of the Southern dynasties 宋書|宋书
沈葆楨	Shen Baozhen (1820-1879), Qing Minister of the Navy, founded Fuzhou Naval College 船政學堂|船政学堂[Chuan2 zheng4 Xue2 tang2] in 1866
沉	to submerge; to immerse; to sink
沉不住氣	to lose one's cool; to get impatient; unable to remain calm
沉井	open caisson
沉住氣	to keep cool; to stay calm
沉凝	stagnant; congealed; fig. grave in manner
沉吟	to mutter to oneself irresolutely
沉寂	silence; stillness
沉得住氣	to stay calm; to keep one's composure
沉思	to contemplate; to ponder; contemplation
沉悶	oppressive (of weather); heavy; depressed
沉沉	deeply; heavily
沉沒	to sink
沉沒成本	sunk cost (economics)
沉浮	lit. sinking and floating; to bob up and down on water; ebb and flow
沉浸	to soak; to permeate; to immerse
沉浸式	immersive
沉淪	to sink into (vice, depravity etc); to pass into oblivion
沉湎	(literary) to wallow in; to indulge in; to be deeply engrossed in
沉湎酒色	to wallow in alcohol and sex (idiom); overindulgence in wine and women
沉溺	(fig.) to indulge in; to wallow in (addiction, vice etc)
沉潛	to lurk under water; to immerse oneself in (study etc)
沉潭	to sink sb to the bottom of a pond (a kind of private punishment, especially for unfaithful wives)
沉澱	(chemistry) to settle; to precipitate
沉澱物	precipitate; sediment
沉甸甸	heavy
沉痛	grief; remorse; deep in sorrow
沉痼	chronic illness; fig. deeply entrenched problem
沉痾	chronic illness; (fig.) deep-rooted problem; longstanding issue
沉睡	to be fast asleep; (fig.) to lie dormant; to lie undiscovered
沉積	sediment; deposit; sedimentation (geology)
沉積作用	sedimentation (geology)
沉積岩	sedimentary rock (geology)
沉積帶	sedimentary belt (geology)
沉積物	sediment
沉穩	steady; calm; unflustered
沉箱	caisson; sink box
沉緩	unhurried; deliberate
沉船	shipwreck; sunken boat; sinking ship
沉船事故	a shipwreck; a sinking
沉落	to sink; to fall
沉著	steady; calm and collected; not nervous
沉著應戰	to remain calm in the face of adversity (idiom)
沉迷	to be engrossed; to be absorbed with; to lose oneself in
沉邃	deep and profound
沉醉	to become intoxicated
沉重	heavy; hard; serious
沉重打擊	to hit hard
沉降	to subside; to cave in; subsidence
沉陷	to sink; to cave in; (of a building etc) to subside
沉雷	deep growling thunder
沉靜	peaceful; quiet; calm
沉香	Chinese eaglewood; agarwood tree; lignum aloes (Aquilaria agallocha)
沉鬱	melancholy; gloomy
沉魚落雁	lit. fish sink, goose alights (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3]); fig. female beauty captivating even the birds and beasts
沉默	taciturn; uncommunicative; silent
沉默寡言	habitually silent (idiom); reticent; uncommunicative
沉默是金	silence is golden (idiom)
沌	used in 混沌[hun4 dun4]
沍	congealed; frozen
沏	to brew (tea)
沏茶	to make tea; to brew tea
沐	to bathe; to cleanse; to receive
沐川縣	Muchuan, a county in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
沐恩	to receive favor
沐浴	to bathe; to take a bath; (fig.) to be bathed in; to be immersed in
沐浴乳	body wash (liquid soap); shower gel
沐浴油	bath oil
沐浴球	shower puff; bath sponge; bath ball (containing aromas or salts)
沐浴用品	bath product
沐浴花	shower puff; shower sponge
沐浴露	shower gel
沐猴而冠	lit. a monkey wearing a hat (idiom)
沐雨櫛風	to work unceasingly regardless of the weather (idiom)
沒	(negative prefix for verbs) have not; not
沒上沒下	no respect for seniors; lacking in manners
沒了	to be dead; not to be, or cease to exist
沒事	it's not important; it's nothing; never mind
沒事兒	to have spare time; free from work; it's not important
沒人住	unoccupied
沒人味	to be lacking in human character
沒什麼	it doesn't matter; it's nothing; never mind
沒來由	without any reason; for no reason
沒分寸	inappropriate; bad-mannered
沒勁	to have no strength; to feel weak; exhausted
沒口	unreservedly; profusely
沒吃沒穿	to be without food or clothing (idiom); to be very poor
沒命	to lose one's life; to die; recklessly
沒品	lacking in class; tacky; tasteless
沒問題	no problem
沒多久	before long; soon after
沒大沒小	impolite; cheeky; impudent
沒天理	(old) unprincipled; incorrect
沒奈何	to have no alternative; to be helpless
沒好氣	to be in a bad mood
沒完沒了	without end; incessantly; on and on
沒底	unsure; uncertain; unending
沒影	to vanish; to be nowhere to be found; unfounded (story)
沒得挑剔	excellent in every respect; flawless
沒得說	really good; excellent
沒心沒肺	simple-minded; thoughtless; heartless
沒心眼	outspoken; artless; tactless
沒想到	didn't expect
沒意思	boring; of no interest
沒戲	(coll.) not a chance; no way; hopeless
沒搞頭	(coll.) not worth bothering with; pointless
沒收	to confiscate; to seize
沒救	beyond saving; hopeless; incurable
沒日沒夜	day and night; regardless of the time of day or night
沒有	haven't; hasn't; doesn't exist
沒有不透風的牆	(idiom) no secret can be kept forever
沒有事	not a bit; nothing is up; nothing alarming is happening
沒有什麼	it is nothing; there's nothing ... about it
沒有什麼不可能	nothing is impossible; there's nothing impossible about it
沒有意思	boring; of no interest
沒有意義	not to have any meaning; meaningless
沒有止盡	endless
沒有法	at a loss; unable to do anything about it; to have no choice
沒有規矩，不成方圓	without rules, nothing can be done (idiom); one must follow some rules
沒有規矩，何以成方圓	without rules, how can anything be done (idiom); one must follow some rules
沒水平	disgraceful; poor quality; substandard
沒水準	lacking class; boorish; poor quality
沒治	hopeless; helpless; incurable
沒法	at a loss; unable to do anything about it; to have no choice
沒法兒	(coll.) can't do anything about it
沒準	not sure; maybe
沒準頭	(coll.) unreliable
沒溜兒	(dialect) silly
沒用	useless
沒眼看	(coll.) can't bear to look at it; hideous; appalling
沒禮貌	impolite; rude; bad-mannered
沒種	not to have the guts (to do sth); cowardly
沒空兒	having no time
沒精打采	listless; dispirited; washed out
沒經驗	inexperienced
沒羞沒臊	shameless
沒臉	ashamed; embarrassed; not having the face (to meet people)
沒臉沒皮	shameless; brazen
沒苦硬吃	(neologism, attested by 2024) to stubbornly endure hardships that need not be endured; to go out of one's way to make things difficult for oneself
沒落	to decline; to wane
沒藥	myrrh (Commiphora myrrha)
沒親沒故	without relatives or friends
沒說的	(coll.) nothing to pick on; really good
沒誰了	(coll.) nobody can beat that; extraordinary; remarkable
沒譜	to be clueless; to have no plan
沒起子	(dialect) (of a person) useless; pathetic; spineless
沒趣	embarrassing; dull; unsatisfactory
沒轍	at one's wit's end; unable to find a way out
沒辦法	there is nothing to be done; one can't do anything about it
沒錯	that's right; sure!; rest assured!
沒長眼睛	(coll.) are you blind or something?; look where you're going
沒門兒	no way; impossible
沒關係	it doesn't matter
沒電	discharged; flat; dead (of batteries)
沒頭沒臉	lit. without head, without face (idiom); fig. frenzily; haphazardly
沒齒難忘	hard to forget even after one's teeth fall out (idiom); to remember a benefactor as long as one lives
沓	classifier for sheets of papers etc: pile, pad; Taiwan pr. [ta4]
沔	inundation; name of a river
沕	abstruse; profound
沖	(of water) to dash against; to mix with water; to infuse
沖刷	to cleanse; to scrub; to scour
沖劑	medicine to be taken after being mixed with water (or other liquid)
沖印	to develop and print (photographic film)
沖塌	to cause (a dam) to collapse
沖壓	(Tw) see 衝壓|冲压[chong4 ya1]
沖天	(lit. and fig.) to soar; to shoot upwards
沖挹	to defer to; to be submissive
沖掉	to wash out; to leach
沖昏頭腦	lit. to be muddled in the brain (idiom); fig. excited and unable to act rationally
沖服	to take medicine in solution; infusion
沖服劑	dose of medicine to be taken in solution; infusion
沖決	to burst (e.g. a dam)
沖沖	excitedly
沖泡	to add water (or other liquid) to (another ingredient such as powdered milk or tea leaves)
沖洗	to rinse; to wash; (photography) to develop (film)
沖涼	(dialect) to take a shower
沖淋浴	to take a shower
沖淡	to dilute
沖澡	to take a shower
沖牙器	water pick; oral irrigator
沖積	to alluviate; alluviation; alluvial
沖積層	alluvial deposit; alluvium
沖積平原	alluvial plain
沖繩	Okinawa (prefecture and island group in Japan)
沖繩島	Okinawa Island
沖繩群島	the Okinawa archipelago
沖蝕	to erode; erosion
沖調	to reconstitute (a powdered beverage) by adding water, milk etc
沖賬	(accounting) to strike a balance; to reverse an entry; to write off
沖走	to flush away
沖銷	(accounting) to charge against; to write off
沖齡	childhood (typically used in reference to an emperor)
沘	name of a river
沙	(dialect) to sift; to sieve
沙䳭	(bird species of China) isabelline wheatear (Oenanthe isabellina)
沙丁胺醇	salbutamol (a beta 2 agonist used in treating asthma)
沙丁魚	sardine (loanword)
沙丘	sand dune; sandy hill
沙丘鶴	(bird species of China) sandhill crane (Antigone canadensis)
沙井	(HK) manhole
沙依巴克區	Saybag, a district of Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
沙俄	Tsarist Russia; abbr. for 沙皇俄國|沙皇俄国[Sha1 huang2 E2 guo2]
沙僧	Sha Wujing
沙利度胺	thalidomide
沙加緬度	Sacramento
沙包	sandbag; punching bag (trad. filled with sand); sand dune
沙參	ladybell root (Radix adenophorae)
沙司	sauce (loanword)
沙和尚	Sha Wujing
沙啞	hoarse; husky; raspy
沙囊	sandbag
沙國	Saudi Arabia (Tw), abbr. for 沙烏地阿拉伯王國|沙乌地阿拉伯王国
沙土	sandy soil
沙地	sandy beach or river bank; sand dune; sandy land
沙坑	sandbox; jumping pit (athletics); sand trap, bunker (golf)
沙坑桿	sand wedge (golf)
沙坡頭區	Shapotou, a district of Zhongwei City 中衛市|中卫市[Zhong1 wei4 Shi4], Ningxia
沙坪壩區	Shapingba, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
沙堡	sandcastle
沙場	sandpit; battleground; battlefield
沙塵	airborne sand and dust
沙塵暴	sand and dust storm
沙壩	a sandbank; a sand bar
沙士	(loanword) sarsaparilla (carbonated soft drink)
沙奎爾·奧尼爾	Shaquille O'Neal (1972-), former NBA star
沙姆沙伊赫	Sharm el-Sheikh, city in Egypt
沙威瑪	shawarma, Middle Eastern sandwich wrap (loanword)
沙子	sand; grit
沙家浜	"Sha Family's Creek", a Beijing opera classified as model theater 樣板戲|样板戏[yang4 ban3 xi4]
沙展	sergeant (loanword)
沙岩	sandstone
沙巴	Sabah, state of Malaysia in north Borneo 婆羅洲|婆罗洲
沙市區	Shashi, a district of Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
沙彌	novice Buddhist monk
沙悟淨	Sha Wujing, aka Friar Sand or Sandy, one of the three disciples of the Buddhist monk Tang Sanzang in "Journey to the West" 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 ji4]
沙拉	(loanword) salad
沙拉甩乾器	salad spinner
沙拉醬	salad dressing
沙撈越	Sarawak, state of Malaysia in northwest Borneo 婆羅洲|婆罗洲
沙文主義	chauvinism
沙暴	sandstorm
沙朗	sirloin (loanword)
沙朗牛排	sirloin steak
沙林	sarin (loanword)
沙果	Chinese pearleaf crabapple (Malus asiatica)
沙梨	Asian pear; sand pear (Pyrus pyrifolia)
沙棘	(botany) sea buckthorn (Hippophae rhamnoides)
沙池	sandpit (for children's play or for long jump etc); sandbox
沙沙	rustle
沙河口區	Shahekou, a district of Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
沙河市	Shahe, a county-level city in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
沙法維王朝	Persian Safavid Dynasty 1501-1722
沙洋縣	Shayang, a county in Jingmen City 荊門市|荆门市[Jing1 men2 Shi4], Hubei
沙洲	sandbank; sandbar
沙漏	hourglass; sand filter
沙漠	desert
沙漠之狐	Desert Fox
沙漠化	desertification
沙灘	beach; sandy shore
沙灘排球	beach volleyball
沙灘鞋	beach shoes; wetsuit booties
沙灣區	Shawan, a district of Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
沙灣市	Shawan, a county-level city in Tacheng Prefecture 塔城地區|塔城地区[Ta3 cheng2 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
沙烏地阿拉伯	Saudi Arabia (Tw)
沙爹	satay (sauce)
沙爹醬	satay sauce
沙特	Saudi; abbr. for Saudi Arabia
沙特阿拉伯	Saudi Arabia
沙特阿拉伯人	a Saudi; Saudi Arabian person
沙琪瑪	sachima, sweet (Manchu) pastry made of fried strips of dough coated with syrup, pressed together, then cut into blocks
沙瓦	a sour (type of cocktail) (loanword)
沙瓦瑪	shawarma, Middle Eastern sandwich wrap (loanword)
沙田	Sha Tin town in New Territories, Hong Kong
沙畫	sand picture
沙畹	Chavannes (name)
沙發	(loanword) sofa (CL:條|条[tiao2],張|张[zhang1])
沙發客	couchsurfing; couchsurfer
沙發床	sofa bed; sleeper sofa
沙皇	czar (loanword)
沙皇俄國	Tsarist Russia
沙皮狗	Chinese shar-pei (dog breed)
沙盒	(computing) sandbox
沙盤	sand table (military)
沙盤推演	to plan a military mission on a sand table (idiom)
沙眼	trachoma
沙石	sand and stones
沙磧	(literary) desert; sandy shore
沙礫	grains of sand
沙祖康	Sha Zukang (1947-), Chinese diplomat
沙粒	grain of sand
沙縣區	Shaxian, a district of Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
沙色朱雀	(bird species of China) pale rosefinch (Carpodacus stoliczkae)
沙茶	satay (spicy peanut sauce), also spelled sate
沙蝗	desert locust
沙蟲	sandworm
沙蠶	genus Nereis, with species including the sandworm and the clam worm
沙袋	sandbag; punching bag (trad. filled with sand)
沙袋鼠	swamp wallaby (Wallabia bicolor)
沙西米	sashimi (loanword)
沙質	sandy
沙那	Sana'a, capital of Yemen (Tw)
沙里亞	sharia (Islamic law) (loanword)
沙錘	maraca
沙門	monk (Sanskrit: Sramana, originally refers to north India)
沙門氏菌	Salmonella
沙門菌	salmonella
沙雅縣	Xayar, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
沙雕	sand sculpture
沙頭角	Sha Tau Kok (town in Hong Kong)
沙麗	(loanword) sari
沙鼠	gerbil
沙龍	salon (loanword)
沚	islet
沛	copious; abundant
沛公	Duke of Pei (i.e. 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1])
沛縣	Pei County or Peixian, a county in Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
沫	foam; suds
沬	dawn; place name
沭	river in Shandong
沭陽縣	Shuyang, a county in Suqian City 宿遷市|宿迁市[Su4 qian1 Shi4], Jiangsu
沮	to destroy; to stop
沮喪	dispirited; dejected; dismayed
沰	to let drop
沱	tearful; to branch (of river)
沱沱河	source of Changjiang or Yangtze river
沱茶	a cake of tea, commonly Pu'er tea 普洱茶[Pu3 er3 cha2], compacted into a bowl or nest shape
河	river (CL:條|条[tiao2],道[dao4]); (bound form) the Yellow River
河伯	name or river God associated with Yellow river
河內	Hanoi, capital of Vietnam
河北區	Hebei district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
河北工業大學	Hebei University of Technology
河北日報	Hebei Daily, newspaper founded in 1949
河北梆子	Hebei opera
河北省	Hebei Province, capital Shijiazhuang 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4] (short name 冀[Ji4])
河北科技大學	Hebei University of Science and Technology
河南省	Henan Province, capital Zhengzhou 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4] (short name 豫[Yu4])
河南蒙古族自治縣	Henan Mongol Autonomous County, in Huangnan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 黃南藏族自治州|黄南藏族自治州[Huang2 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
河卵石	pebble
河叉	river mouth
河口	estuary; the mouth of a river
河口區	Hekou, a district of Dongying City 東營市|东营市[Dong1 ying2 Shi4], Shandong
河口瑤族自治縣	Hekou Yao Autonomous County, in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
河外星系	extragalactic star system; galaxy (not including our Galaxy)
河外星雲	extragalactic nebula
河套	the Great Bend of the Yellow River in Inner Mongolia
河姆渡	Hemudu neolithic archaeological site near Ningbo in Zhejiang, going back to c. 5000 BC
河姆渡遺址	Hemudu neolithic archaeological site near Ningbo 長江|长江 in Zhejiang, going back to c. 5000 BC
河岸	riverside; river bank
河川	rivers
河工	river conservancy works (dike maintenance, dredging etc)
河床	riverbed
河心	middle of the river
河心島	river island
河曲	bend (of a river); meander
河曲縣	Hequ, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
河村	Kawamura (name)
河東	Hedong district of Linyi city 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 shi4], Shandong
河東區	Hedong district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
河東獅	shrew
河東獅吼	lit. the lioness from Hedong roars (idiom)
河槽	river bed; channel
河殤	River Elegy, influential 1988 CCTV documentary series, said to have stimulated the Beijing Spring democracy movement of 1980s
河水	river water
河汊	tributary; branch of a river
河池市	Hechi, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
河沙	river sand
河洛人	Hoklo people, southern Chinese people of Taiwan
河津市	Hejin, a county-level city in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
河流	river
河涌	tributary; branch of a river
河渠	rivers and canals; waterway
河港	river port
河源市	Heyuan, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
河溝	brook; ditch
河漫灘	floodplain
河濱	brook; rivulet
河灘	river bank; river shore; strand
河烏	(bird species of China) white-throated dipper (Cinclus cinclus)
河狸	beaver
河畔	riverside; river plain
河盲症	river blindness; onchocerciasis
河神	river god
河童	kappa, a child-size humanoid water creature in Japanese folklore
河粉	hor fun, a type of wide, flat rice noodle
河蚌	mussels; bivalves grown in rivers and lakes
河蟹	river crab
河西	land west of the Yellow river; Shaanxi, Qinghai and Gansu provinces
河西區	Hexi district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
河西堡	Hexipu, a town in Yongchang County 永昌縣|永昌县[Yong3 chang1 Xian4], Jinchang 金昌[Jin1 chang1], Gansu
河西走廊	Hexi Corridor (or Gansu Corridor), a string of oases running the length of Gansu, forming part of the Northern Silk Road
河谷	river valley
河豚	blowfish; puffer (Tetraodontidae)
河豚毒素	tetrodotoxin (TTX)
河運	river transport
河道	river course; river channel
河邊	river bank
河間市	Hejian, a county-level city in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
河面	surface of a river
河馬	hippopotamus
河魚	freshwater fish
河鮮	freshwater fish, shrimp, crabs and clams etc
河鼓二	Altair (star)
沴	miasma
沷	to remove evil; to cleanse; to wash away
沸	to boil
沸水	boiling water
沸沸揚揚	bubbling and gurgling; hubbubing; abuzz
沸石	zeolite
沸騰	(of a liquid) to boil; (of sentiments etc) to boil over; to flare up
沸點	boiling point
油	oil; fat; grease
油乎乎	greasy; oily
油井	oil well
油亮	glossy; shiny
油價	oil (petroleum) price
油光	glossy; gleaming; shiny (due to greasiness)
油光光	glossy; gleaming; shiny (due to greasiness)
油光可鑒	lit. oily and shiny to the point of reflecting (idiom); lustrous
油光水滑	sleek; shiny and smooth
油光漆	varnish
油印	to mimeograph
油嘴	eloquent and cunning; silver tongued
油嘴滑舌	glib; oily-mouthed and smooth talking
油垢	greasy dirt
油墨	printing ink
油子	dense and sticky substance; (dialect) wily old fox
油尖旺	Yau Tsim Mong district of Kowloon, Hong Kong
油尺	dipstick; oil measuring rod
油布	tarpaulin
油底殼	oil sump
油庫	fuel depot; fuel farm
油料	oilseed; oil; fuel
油料作物	oil crop (rape, peanut, soy, sesame etc); oil-bearing crop
油旋	Youxuan, a kind of a pastry
油松	Chinese red pine
油枯	oil cake; press cake
油桃	nectarine
油桐	Chinese wood-oil tree (Vernicia fordii)
油條	youtiao (deep-fried breadstick); slick and sly person
油棕	oil palm
油橄欖	olive (Olea europaea)
油氣	oil and gas
油氣田	oilfields and gasfields
油水	grease; profit; ill-gotten gains
油汗	oily sweat; (dialect) aphid
油污	greasy dirt; sludge (from an oil spill)
油汪汪	dripping with oil
油油	oily
油泡	to sauté; bubbles that appear in the oil when deep-frying
油泵	oil pump
油渣	crisp residue left after rendering animal fat; (esp.) pork cracklings
油滑	oily; greasy; unctuous
油漆	oil paints; lacquer; to paint
油漬	oil or grease stain
油潑扯麵	broad, belt-shaped noodles, popular in Shaanxi, also known as 𰻞𰻞麵|𰻝𰻝面[biang2 biang2 mian4]
油灰刀	putty knife
油炸	to deep fry
油炸圈餅	doughnut
油炸鬼	(coll.) youtiao (deep-fried breadstick)
油然而生	arising involuntarily (idiom); spontaneous
油煙	soot; lampblack
油煙機	range hood; exhaust hood
油燈	oil lamp
油猾	sly; slick
油田	oil field
油畫	oil painting
油症	Yusho disease or Yu-cheng disease, mass poisoning caused by rice bran oil in northern Kyushu, Japan (1968), and in Taiwan (1979)
油砂	oil sand (mining)
油管	(coll.) YouTube
油箱	fuel tank
油紙	oilpaper
油罐車	oil tanker truck; fuel tanker
油老虎	gas guzzler
油耗	fuel consumption
油脂	grease; oil; fat
油腔滑調	flippant and insincere (piece of writing or speech); glib-tongued
油膏	semi-solid fat-based substance; (medicine) ointment
油膩	greasy food; oily food; (of food) greasy; oily; fatty
油船	oil tanker
油花	grease or fat blobs at the surface of a liquid; tricky and dissolute
油菜	oilseed rape (Brassica napus)
油菜籽	oilseed rape (Brassica campestris); rapeseed; coleseed
油菜花	rapeseed flower; canola flower
油葷	meat foods
油豆腐	fried tofu (cubes)
油車	(coll.) gasoline vehicle
油輪	tanker (ship)
油酸	oleic acid
油鍋	a deep fryer
油門	accelerator (pedal); gas pedal; throttle
油雞	a variety of chicken
油鞋	waterproof shoes; oiled shoes (for wet weather)
油頁岩	oil shale
油飯	fried sticky rice
油餅	deep-fried doughcake; oilcake (animal fodder)
油鹽不進	(idiom) impervious to persuasion; unreceptive; impossible to get through to
油鹽醬醋	(lit.) oil, salt, soy sauce and vinegar (idiom)
油麥	naked oat (old)
油麥菜	Indian lettuce
油黑	glossy black
沺	turbulent
治	to rule; to govern; to manage
治下	under the jurisdiction of
治保	law enforcement and protection of the public (as provided in the PRC by local security committees 治保會|治保会[zhi4 bao3 hui4])
治傷	to treat an injury
治喪	to organize and carry out a funeral
治國	to rule a country
治國理政	to manage state affairs; to govern the country
治外法權	diplomatic immunity
治多縣	Zhidoi, a county in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 玉樹藏族自治州|玉树藏族自治州[Yu4 shu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
治大國若烹小鮮	ruling a large nation is like cooking a small delicacy (idiom)
治好	to cure
治學	scholarship; high-level study; to do scholarly research
治安	law and order; public security
治愚	to eliminate backward (unscientific) ways of thinking
治未病	preventative treatment (medicine)
治本	to tackle a problem at its root; to effect a permanent solution (contrasted with 治標|治标[zhi4 biao1])
治標	to treat only the symptoms but not the root cause
治標不治本	to treat the symptoms but not the root cause
治死	to put to death
治氣	to get angry
治理	to govern; to administer; to manage
治病	to treat an illness
治病救人	to treat the disease to save the patient
治療	to treat (an illness); medical treatment; therapy
治療師	therapist
治療法	therapy
治癒	to cure; to restore to health; uplifting; heartwarming
治癒系	uplifting; rejuvenating; heartwarming
治絲益棼	lit. try to straighten out silk threads only to tangle them further (idiom)
治罪	to punish sb (for a crime)
治裝	to prepare necessities (chiefly clothes) for a journey abroad
治裝費	expenses for 治裝|治装[zhi4 zhuang1]
治軍	running of armed forces; military management; to govern armed forces
沼	pond; pool
沼氣	marsh gas; methane CH4
沼澤	marsh; swamp; wetlands
沼澤地	marsh; swamp; everglade
沼澤地帶	marsh; swamp; everglade
沼澤大尾鶯	(bird species of China) striated grassbird (Megalurus palustris)
沼澤山雀	(bird species of China) marsh tit (Poecile palustris)
沼狸	(zoology) coypu; nutria
沽	abbr. for Tianjin 天津 (also 津沽)
沽名釣譽	to angle for fame (idiom); to fish for compliments
沽源縣	Guyuan, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
沽空	(finance) to short sell
沾	to moisten; to be infected by
沾光	to bask in the light; fig. to benefit from association with sb or sth
沾唇	to moisten one's lips; to sip (wine, tea etc)
沾染	to pollute (often fig.); to be infected by; to gain a small advantage
沾染世俗	to be corrupted by the ways of the world (idiom)
沾沾自喜	immeasurably self-satisfied
沾滿	muddy; covered in (mud, dust, sweat, blood etc); daubed in
沾濕	to moisten; to dampen; to be steeped in
沾濡	to moisten
沾花惹草	to fondle the flowers and trample the grass (idiom); to womanize
沾親帶故	(idiom) to have some sort of connection (personal or familial etc)
沾邊	to have a connection with; to be close (to reality); to be relevant
沾醬	dip (cookery)
沾黏	(Tw) to stick (to sth); adhesion (medicine)
沿	along; to follow (a line, tradition etc); to carry on
沿例	following the model; according to precedent
沿兒	edge (used directly after a noun, e.g. roadside 馬路沿兒|马路沿儿)
沿岸	coastal area; littoral or riparian
沿岸地區	coastal area
沿條兒	tape seam (in dressmaking); tape trim
沿江	along the river; the region around the river
沿河土家族自治縣	Yanhe Tujia Autonomous County, in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
沿洄	to go with the stream
沿海	coastal
沿海地區	coastland; coastal areas
沿灘區	Yantan, a district of Zigong City 自貢市|自贡市[Zi4 gong4 Shi4], Sichuan
沿用	to continue to use (old methods); to apply as before
沿線	along the line (e.g. railway); the region near the line
沿著	to go along; to follow
沿襲	to carry on as before; to follow (an old custom etc)
沿路	along the way; on the way; area beside a road
沿途	along the sides of the road; by the wayside
沿邊	close to the border; along the border
沿邊兒	to trim (border with braid, tape etc)
沿革	evolution of sth over time; course of development; history
況	moreover; situation
況且	moreover; besides; in addition
況味	circumstances; atmosphere; mood
況復	moreover
泂	vast
泃	(the name of a river to the east of Beijing); Taiwan pr. [Ju4]
泃河	Ju River, flowing through Hebei, northeastern Beijing and Tianjin
泄出	to leak out; to release (liquid or gas)
泄殖肛孔	(zoology) cloaca
泄殖腔	(zoology) cloaca; cloacal cavity
泄漏天機	to divulge the will of heaven (idiom); to leak a secret
泄瀉	(TCM) to have diarrhea
泄露	to leak (information); to divulge; also pr. [xie4lu4]
泄露天機	to divulge the will of heaven (idiom); to leak a secret
泅	to swim (bound form)
泅水	to swim
泅渡	to swim across
泅游	to swim
泆	licentious, libertine, dissipate
泇	the name of a river that flows through Shandong and Jiangsu
泇河	Jia River, originating in Shandong and flowing through Jiangsu into the Grand Canal
泉	spring (small stream); mouth of a spring; coin (archaic)
泉山區	Quanshan, a district of Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
泉州市	Quanzhou, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
泉幣	coin (archaic)
泉水	spring water
泉港區	Quangang, a district of Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
泉湧	to gush
泉源	springhead; fountainhead; (fig.) source
泉眼	mouth of a spring or fountain
泉石膏肓	lit. mountain springs and rocks in one's heart (idiom); a deep love of mountain scenery
泉華	to sinter (metallurgy)
泉路	netherworld
泊	to moor (a boat); to park (a vehicle)
泊位	berth (for a ship); parking space (for a vehicle)
泊松	S.D. Poisson (1781-1840), French mathematician; also pr. [Po1 song1]
泊松分佈	Poisson distribution (in statistics)
泊船	to moor a boat or ship
泊車	to park a vehicle
泊頭市	Botou, a county-level city in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
泌	used in 泌陽|泌阳[Bi4 yang2] (the name of a place in Henan)
泌乳	lactation
泌尿	to urinate; urination; urinary
泌尿器	urinary tract; urinary organs
泌尿外科	urology
泌尿生殖道	(anatomy) urinogenital tract
泌尿系統	urinary system
泌陽縣	Biyang, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
泐	to write
泑	the vitreous glaze on china, porcelain etc
泒	name of a river
泓	clear; vast and deep; classifier for a body of clear water
泔	slop from rinsing rice
泔水	slop; swill
法	France; French; abbr. for 法國|法国[Fa3 guo2]
法事	religious ceremony; ritual
法人	legal person; corporation
法令	decree; ordinance
法令紋	nasolabial fold; smile lines; laugh lines
法克	fuck (loanword)
法克魷	(Internet slang) (loanword) fuck you
法兒	way; method; means
法典	legal code; statute
法利賽人	Pharisee
法制	legal system and institutions
法制日報	Legal Daily, newspaper published by PRC Ministry of Justice
法制晚報	Legal Evening News, a Beijing-based legal affairs newspaper launched in 2004 and shut down in 2019
法則	law; rule; code
法力	magic power
法勒斯	Perez (son of Judah)
法務	legal affairs; in-house legal counsel
法名	name in religion (of Buddhist or Daoist within monastery)
法向力	normal force (physics)
法向量	(math.) normal vector
法商	"legal quotient" (LQ), a measure of one's awareness and knowledge of the law and one's standard of honorable conduct
法國	France
法國人	Frenchman; French person
法國大革命	French Revolution (1789-1799)
法國梧桐	plane tree (Platanus x acerifolia)
法國百合	artichoke
法國航空	Air France
法國航空公司	Air France
法國號	French horn
法國長棍	baguette
法國革命	French Revolution (1789)
法場	execution ground
法塔赫	Fatah, Palestinian organization
法壓壺	French press; press pot
法外	outside the law; beyond the law; extrajudicial
法外之地	lawless area
法子	way; method; Taiwan pr. [fa2 zi5]
法學	law; legal studies
法學博士	Doctor of Laws; Legum Doctor
法學士	Bachelor of Laws; Legum Baccalaureus
法學家	jurist; member of the pre-Han legalist school
法學院	law school
法官	judge (in court)
法定	statutory; law-based; legal
法定人數	quorum
法定代表人	(law) legal representative of a corporation (e.g. chairman of the board of a company, principal of a school etc)
法定貨幣	fiat currency
法家	the Legalist school of political philosophy, which rose to prominence in the Warring States period (475–221 BC) (The Legalists believed that social harmony could only be attained through strong state control, and advocated for a system of rigidly applied punishments and rewards for specific behaviors.)
法寶	Buddha's teaching; Buddhist monk's apparel, staff etc
法屬圭亞那	French Guiana
法屬波利尼西亞	French Polynesia
法師	one who has mastered the sutras (Buddhism)
法幣	fiat currency (abbr. for 法定貨幣|法定货币[fa3 ding4 huo4 bi4])
法度	(a) law
法庫縣	Faku, a county in Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
法庭	court of law
法式	rule; method; model
法式沙拉醬	French dressing
法式酸奶油	crème fraîche
法律	law
法律制裁	legal sanction; prescribed punishment; punishable by law
法律約束力	legal force (i.e. binding in law)
法律責任	legal responsibility; liability
法拉	farad, SI unit of electrical capacitance (loanword)
法拉利	Ferrari, Italian luxury sports car manufacturer
法拉盛	Flushing Chinatown, a predominantly Chinese and Korean neighborhood of Queens, New York City
法拉第	Faraday (name)
法拉第籠	(physics) Faraday cage
法拍	judicial auction; to sell by judicial auction
法援	legal aid (abbr. for 法律援助[fa3 lu : 4 yuan2 zhu4])
法政	law and government; law and politics
法文	French language
法新社	Agence France Presse; AFP news agency
法會	(Buddhist) religious assembly
法杖	magic staff
法案	bill; proposed law
法棍	baguette (bread)
法槌	gavel
法治	rule of law; to rule by law
法海	Fahai, name of the evil Buddhist monk in Tale of the White Snake 白蛇傳|白蛇传[Bai2 she2 Zhuan4]
法源	Origin of Dharma (in Buddhism); source of the law
法源寺	Fayuan or Source of the Law temple in Beijing
法爾卡什	Farkas (Hungarian name)
法特瓦	(loanword) fatwa
法王	Sakyamuni
法理	legal principle; jurisprudence
法益	interests protected by law
法盲	person who has no understanding of legal matters
法相宗	Yogācāra school of Buddhism; Dharma-character school of Buddhism
法眼	discerning eye
法筵	the seat of the Law, on which the one who explains the doctrine is seated (Buddhism)
法紀	law and order; rules and discipline
法網	the net of justice; the long arm of the law
法網恢恢，疏而不漏	large though its mesh may be, no criminal can slip through the wide net of justice
法網難逃	it is hard to escape the net of justice (idiom)
法線	(geometry) normal line
法羅群島	Faroe Islands
法老	pharaoh (loanword)
法耶德	(name) Fayed; Mohamed Al-Fayed (1929–2023), Egyptian business magnate
法航	Air France
法茲魯拉	Maulana Fazlullah, Pakistan Taleban leader
法華經	The Lotus Sutra
法蒂瑪	Fatimah (name)
法蘭	flange (loanword)
法蘭克	the Franks (Germanic people who arrived in Europe from 600 AD and took over France)
法蘭克林	Franklin (name); Benjamin Franklin (1706-1790)
法蘭克福	Frankfurt, Germany
法蘭克福匯報	Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung
法蘭克福學派	Frankfurt School
法蘭克福證券交易所	Frankfurt Stock Exchange (FSE)
法蘭德斯	Flanders, region (state) of Belgium 比利時|比利时[Bi3 li4 shi2]
法蘭斯	France (phonetic transliteration)
法蘭絨	flannel (loanword); Taiwan pr. [fa4 lan2 rong2]
法蘭西	France
法蘭西斯	Francis (name)
法蘭西斯·培根	Francis Bacon (1561-1626), English Renaissance philosopher and early scientist
法蘭西斯·斐迪南	Archduke Francis Ferdinand of Austria (1863-1914), heir to the Hapsburg throne, whose assassination in Sarajevo led to World War I
法蘭西體育場	Stade de France
法號	name in religion (of Buddhist or Daoist within monastery)
法術	magic
法衣	robe of a Buddhist priest; ceremonial garment of a Daoist priest
法製	made in France
法西斯	fascist (loanword)
法西斯主義	fascism
法規	legislation; statute
法語	French (language)
法警	bailiff
法赫德	King Fahd of Saudi Arabia
法軍	French army
法輪	(Buddhism) Dharma wheel – symbol of Buddhist teaching and its spread
法輪功	Falun Gong (Chinese spiritual movement founded in 1992, regarded as a cult by the PRC government)
法輪大法	another name for 法輪功|法轮功[Fa3 lun2 gong1]
法輪常轉	(Buddhism) may the Dharma wheel turn forever; may the Buddhist teaching continue to spread
法辦	to bring to justice; to punish according to the law
法郎	franc
法醫	forensic pathologist; forensic doctor; medical examiner
法醫學	forensic medicine
法門	gate to enlightment (Buddhism); Buddhism; way
法院	court of law; court
法院裁決	court ruling
法隆寺	Hōryūji, complex of Buddhist temples near Nara 奈良, Japan, dating back to the Asuka period 飛鳥時代|飞鸟时代 (c. 600)
法馬古斯塔	Famagusta (Ammochostos), Cyprus
法魯克	Farouk of Egypt (1920-1965), king of Egypt 1936-1952
泖	still water
泗	river in Shandong
泗水	Sishui County in Jining 濟寧|济宁[Ji3 ning2], Shandong
泗水縣	Sishui, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
泗洪縣	Sihong, a county in Suqian City 宿遷市|宿迁市[Su4 qian1 Shi4], Jiangsu
泗縣	Si County or Sixian, a county in Suzhou City 宿州市[Su4 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
泗陽縣	Siyang, a county in Suqian City 宿遷市|宿迁市[Su4 qian1 Shi4], Jiangsu
泙	sound of water splashing
泚	clear; bright and brilliant
泛	(bound form) general; non-specific; extensive
泛代數	universal algebra
泛光燈	floodlight
泛函	a functional (math.)
泛函分析	(math.) functional analysis
泛大洋	Panthalassis (geology)
泛大陸	Pangea (geology)
泛定方程	universal differential equation
泛得林	(Tw) ventolin, aka salbutamol, an asthma drug
泛性戀	pansexuality
泛指	to make a general reference; to be used in a general sense
泛民主派	pan-Democratic alliance (Hong Kong)
泛泛之交	nodding acquaintance; slight familiarity
泛泛而談	to speak in general terms
泛濫成災	lit. to flood (idiom); fig. rampant; in plague proportions
泛珠三角	Pan-Pearl River delta
泛珠江三角	the Pan-Pearl river delta (economic zone including the 5 provinces around Guangzhou and Hong Kong)
泛白	to be suffused with white; faded; bleached; to blanch
泛神論	pantheism, theological theory equating God with the Universe
泛稱	to refer broadly to; general term
泛紅	to blush; to redden; flushed
泛美	Pan American
泛自然神論	pandeism, theological theory that God created the Universe and became one with it
泛舟	to go boating
泛論	to discuss in general terms; general exposition; general discussion
泛讀	(language education) to read swiftly, aiming to get the gist
泛起	to appear; to emerge; to surface
泛酸	pantothenic acid; vitamin B5; to surge up (of acid in the stomach)
泛音	(music) an overtone; a harmonic
泜	a river in Hebei province
泠	sound of water flowing
泡	puffed; swollen; spongy; small lake (esp. in place names)
泡吧	to spend time in a bar (alcohol, Internet etc); to go clubbing
泡妞	to pick up girls; to play around with girls; to chase after girls
泡子	small lake; pond
泡影	(lit.) froth and shadows; (fig.) illusion; mirage
泡打粉	baking powder
泡桐	Paulownia (genus)
泡棉	foam (material)
泡椒	pickled pepper
泡水	to infuse; to soak in water
泡沫	foam; (soap) bubble; (economic) bubble
泡沫塑料	styrofoam
泡沫經濟	bubble economy
泡泡	bubbles
泡泡口香糖	bubble-gum
泡泡果	pawpaw (Asimina triloba)
泡泡浴	bubble bath
泡泡浴露	bubble bath lotion
泡泡糖	bubble gum
泡泡紗	seersucker (cotton cloth with pattern of dimples)
泡泡襪	loose socks; baggy socks
泡湯	(coll.) to fizzle out; to come to nothing; to dawdle; to stall
泡溫泉	to soak in a spa or hot spring
泡漩	eddy; whirlpool
泡澡	to bathe; to immerse oneself in a warm bath
泡病號	to dilly-dally on the pretence of being ill; to malinger
泡發	to reconstitute (dried mushrooms, seaweed etc)
泡罩塔	distillation tower; bubble tower; plate column
泡腳	to soak the feet
泡芙	cream puff (loanword); profiterole
泡芙人	(coll.) skinny fat person (person who is MONW: metabolically obese normal weight)
泡花鹼	sodium silicate
泡茶	to make tea
泡菜	pickled cabbage
泡菜國	(slang) South Korea
泡菜球	pickleball
泡蘑菇	to procrastinate; to shilly-shally and waste time
泡製	to infuse; to brew (a herbal remedy or beverage)
泡貨	light but bulky goods
泡飯	to soak cooked rice in soup or water
泡饃	meat and bread soup (a specialty of Shaanxi cuisine)
泡騰	to bubble; to fizz; to effervesce
泡騰片	effervescent tablet
泡麵	instant noodles; (Tw) pirated software
波	(bound form) Poland (abbr. for 波蘭|波兰[Bo1 lan2]); surname Bo
波什格倫	Porsgrunn (city in Telemark, Norway)
波來古	Pleiku, Vietnam
波光	gleaming reflection of waves in sunlight
波光粼粼	(idiom) (of water) shimmering with ripples; glistening
波函數	wave function (in quantum mechanics)
波利尼西亞	Polynesia
波動	to undulate; to fluctuate; wave motion
波動力學	wave mechanics (physics)
波動性	fluctuation
波卡	burqa (loanword)
波及	to spread to; to involve; to affect
波哥大	Bogota, capital of Colombia
波塞冬	Poseidon, god of the sea in Greek mythology
波士尼亞	Bosnia (Tw)
波士尼亞與赫塞哥維納	(Tw) Bosnia and Herzegovina
波士頓	Boston, capital of Massachusetts
波士頓大學	Boston University
波士頓紅襪	Boston Red Sox (baseball) team
波多黎各	Puerto Rico, self-governing unincorporated territory of the United States
波季	Poti, port city in Georgia, on the coast of the Black Sea
波密縣	Bomê, a county in Nyingchi City 林芝市[Lin2 zhi1 Shi4], Tibet
波導	waveguide (electronics)
波峰	wave crest
波帶片	zone plate
波幅	amplitude
波弗特海	Beaufort Sea (off Alaska, Yukon and Northwest Territory)
波形	wave form
波德	Johann Elert Bode (1747-1826), German astronomer
波德戈里察	Podgorica, capital of Montenegro
波德申	Port Dickson (holiday destination in Malaysia)
波德里查	Podgorica, capital of Montenegro (Tw)
波恩	Bonn, a small town on the Rhine, Cold War capital of West Germany 1949-1990
波恩大學	University of Bonn
波托馬克河	Potomac River
波折	twists and turns
波拉波拉島	Bora Bora, island of the Society Islands group in French Polynesia
波拿巴	Bonaparte (name)
波提乏	Potiphar, the captain of the pharaoh's guard (in the account of Joseph in the Book of Genesis)
波數	wave number (reciprocal of frequency)
波斑鴇	(bird species of China) MacQueen's bustard (Chlamydotis macqueenii)
波斯	Persia
波斯尼亞	Bosnia
波斯尼亞和黑塞哥維那	Bosnia and Herzegovina
波斯尼亞和黑塞哥維那共和國	Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina (1992–1995), wartime predecessor of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina 波斯尼亞和黑塞哥維那|波斯尼亚和黑塞哥维那[Bo1 si1 ni2 ya4 he2 Hei1 sai4 ge1 wei2 na4]
波斯尼亞語	Bosnian (language)
波斯教	Zoroastrianism
波斯普魯斯	Bosphorus
波斯普魯斯海峽	the Bosphorus (strait)
波斯灣	Persian Gulf
波斯語	Persian (language); Farsi
波斯貓	Persian (cat)
波方程	wave equation (math. physics)
波旁	Bourbon
波昂	Bonn, city in Germany (Tw)
波普藝術	pop art (loanword)
波札那	(Tw) Botswana
波束	beam
波森莓	boysenberry (hybrid of raspberry and blackberry)
波段	wave band
波比	burpee (loanword)
波比跳	burpee (loanword)
波比運動	burpee (loanword)
波江座	Eridanus (constellation)
波河	Po River, longest river in Italy
波波頭	bob (hairstyle)
波洛涅斯	(name) Polonius
波浪	wave
波浪號	tilde ( ~ )
波濤	billows; great waves; surging waves
波濤洶湧	waves surging forth; roaring sea
波瀾	billows; great waves (fig. of a story with great momentum)
波瀾壯闊	surging forward with great momentum; unfolding on a magnificent scale
波瀾老成	splendid and powerful (of story); majestic; awesome
波瀾起伏	one climax follows another (of thrilling story)
波爾卡	polka (dance) (loanword)
波爾多	Bordeaux
波爾多液	Bordeaux mixture
波爾布特	Pol Pot (1925-1998), Cambodian communist leader
波特	(loanword) baud (computing); porter (beer)
波特率	baud
波特菇	portobello mushroom
波特蘭市	Portland (city)
波特貝勒菇	portobello mushroom
波特酒	Port wine
波狀	wave-shaped
波狀消光	(geology) undulose extinction
波狀熱	undulant fever; brucellosis
波狀雲	undulatus
波粒二象性	wave-particle duality in quantum mechanics
波紋	ripple; corrugation
波羅	Polo (car made by Volkswagen); surname Polo
波羅的	Baltic
波羅的海	Baltic Sea
波美度	Baume degrees
波美拉尼亞	Pomerania, a historical region on the south shore of the Baltic Sea
波美比重計	Baume hydrometer
波義耳	Boyle (name)
波茨坦	Potsdam, near Berlin, Germany
波茨坦公告	Potsdam Declaration
波茨坦會議	Potsdam conference, July-August 1945, between Truman, Stalin and British prime ministers Churchill and Attlee
波茲南	Poznan (city in Poland)
波茲坦	Potsdam, Germany
波茲曼	Ludwig Boltzmann (1844-1906), Austrian physicist and philosopher
波萊羅	bolero (dance) (loanword)
波蕩	heave; surge
波蘭	Poland
波蘭斯基	Polanski (name)
波蘭語	Polish (language)
波西米亞	Bohemia, historical region in Central Europe
波語	Polish language
波譎雲詭	(idiom) ever-changing; unpredictable
波譜	spectrum
波谷	trough
波赫	(Tw) Bosnia and Herzegovina (abbr. for 波士尼亞與赫塞哥維納|波士尼亚与赫塞哥维纳[Bo1 shi4 ni2 ya4 yu3 He4 se4 ge1 wei2 na4])
波速	wave velocity
波長	wavelength
波阿斯	Boaz (son of Salmon and Rahab)
波阿次	Boaz (name)
波隆那	Bologna, city in Northern Italy
波霎	(astronomy) pulsar
波霸	(slang) (loanword) big boobs; big-breasted
波霸奶茶	bubble milk tea (Tw); Boba milk tea; tapioca milk tea
波面	wave front
波鞋	(dialect) sports shoes; sneakers (originally Cantonese: 波 is borrowed from English "ball", Jyutping [bo1])
波音	Boeing (aerospace company)
波鴻	Bochum (city in Germany)
波麗士	police (loanword) (Tw)
波黑	Bosnia and Herzegovina (abbr. for 波斯尼亞和黑塞哥維那|波斯尼亚和黑塞哥维那[Bo1 si1 ni2 ya4 he2 Hei1 sai4 ge1 wei2 na4])
波點	polka dot (abbr. for 波爾卡圓點|波尔卡圆点[bo1 er3 ka3 yuan2 dian3])
泣	to sob
泣不成聲	(idiom) unable to speak through tears; sobbing uncontrollably
泣諫	to counsel a superior in tears indicating absolute sincerity
泥	mud; clay; paste
泥人	clay figurine
泥刀	trowel
泥古	stick-in-the-mud; to stick to old ways; stubbornly conservative
泥古不化	conservative and unable to adapt (idiom)
泥土	earth; soil; mud; clay
泥坑	mud pit; mire; morass
泥垢	dirt; grime
泥塑	clay modeling; clay figurine or statue
泥子	putty (used by plumbers and glaziers)
泥孩	clay doll
泥守	stubborn and conservative
泥封	to seal jars etc with mud, clay or lute; lute; luting
泥岩	mudstone; shale
泥工	mason; masonry work
泥巴	(coll.) mud
泥敷劑	poultice
泥水	muddy water; mud; masonry (craft)
泥水匠	mason
泥沙	silt
泥沙俱下	mud and sand flow together (idiom); good and bad mingle
泥沼	swamp
泥淖	mud; muddy swamp; sump
泥漿	slurry; mud
泥潭	quagmire
泥濘	muddy; mud
泥灰	lime plaster (construction)
泥炭	peat
泥炭蘚	matted sphagnum moss (Sphagnum palustre)
泥煤	peat
泥牛入海	lit. a clay ox enters the sea (idiom); fig. to disappear with no hope of returning
泥犁	(Buddhism) Naraka
泥瓦匠	bricklayer; tiler; mason
泥盆紀	Devonian (geological period 417-354m years ago)
泥石流	landslide; torrent of mud and stones; mudslide
泥胎	clay idol
泥腿	peasant; yokel
泥腿子	peasant; yokel
泥菩薩	clay Bodhisattva
泥菩薩過江，自身難保	like a clay Bodhisattva fording a river, can't guarantee his own safety
泥質	muddy
泥質岩	mudstone (geology)
泥質頁岩	mudstone
泥醉	blind drunk; drunk as drunk can be
泥金	to gild; gilt
泥鏟	trowel
泥鰍	loach; mud fish
注	(bound form) to pour into; to flow into; to inject
注入	to pour into; to empty into
注冊人	registrant
注冊表	Windows registry
注塑	injection molding
注射	injection; to inject
注射劑	injection; shot
注射器	syringe
注射針	needle; hypodermic needle
注念	(literary) to ponder
注意	to take note of; to pay attention to
注意力	attention
注意力不足過動症	attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
注意力缺失症	attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
注意力缺陷多動症	attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
注意力缺陷過動症	attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
注明	to clearly indicate
注水	to pour water into; to inject water into
注目	attention; to stare at; to fix attention on sth
注視	to look attentively at; to closely watch; to gaze at
注資	to inject funds; to put money into (the market)
注釋	to annotate; to add a comment; explanatory note; annotation
注重	to pay attention to; to emphasize
注音	to indicate the pronunciation of Chinese characters using Pinyin or Bopomofo etc
注音一式	Mandarin Phonetic Symbols 1; Bopomofo
注音符號	Mandarin phonetic symbols (MPS), phonetic alphabet for Chinese used esp. in Taiwan, also known colloquially as Bopomofo (after the first four letters of the alphabet:ㄅㄆㄇㄈ)
泩	rising of water
泫	weep
泭	a raft
泮	(literary) to melt; to dissolve
泯	(bound form) to vanish; to die out; to obliterate
泯沒	to sink into oblivion; to be lost to memory; to vanish
泯滅	to obliterate; to die out; to disappear
泰	Mt Tai 泰山[Tai4 Shan1] in Shandong; abbr. for Thailand
泰來縣	Tailai, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
泰加林	taiga (loanword)
泰勒	Taylor (name)
泰北	northern Thailand
泰半	more than half; a majority; most
泰和	calm and peaceful
泰和縣	Taihe, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
泰國	Thailand
泰坦	Titan (race of deities in Greek mythology, moon of Saturn etc)
泰坦尼克號	RMS Titanic, British passenger liner that sank in 1912
泰坦巨龍	titanosaur
泰姬瑪哈陵	Taj Mahal; abbr. to 泰姬陵[Tai4 ji1 ling2]
泰姬陵	Taj Mahal (mausoleum in India)
泰安市	Tai'an, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
泰安縣	Tai'an county in Shandong
泰寧縣	Taining, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
泰山	Mt Tai in Shandong, eastern mountain of the Five Sacred Mountains 五嶽|五岳[Wu3 yue4]
泰山北斗	(lit.) Mount Tai and the Big Dipper (idiom)
泰山區	Taishan, a district of Tai'an City 泰安市[Tai4 an1 Shi4], Shandong
泰山鴻毛	as weighty as Mt Tai, as light as a feather (refers to death)
泰州市	Taizhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
泰式	Thai-style (of food, massage etc)
泰戈爾	Rabindranath Tagore (1861-1941), Indian poet and writer
泰拳	Muay Thai - "Thai fist" - Martial Art
泰文	Thai (language)
泰斗	abbr. for 泰山北斗[Tai4 shan1 Bei3 dou3]
泰日天	(slang) toy poodle with a teddy-bear cut (humorous nickname based on a stereotype of excessive mounting behavior)
泰晤士	the Times (newspaper); River Thames, through London
泰晤士報	Times (newspaper)
泰晤士河	River Thames
泰東	the Far East; East Asia
泰格·伍茲	Eldrick "Tiger" Woods (1975-), American golfer
泰格爾	Tegel (name); Tiger (name)
泰水	(literary) mother-in-law; wife's mother
泰然	calm; self-composed
泰然自若	cool and collected (idiom); showing no sign of nerves
泰然處之	to handle the situation calmly (idiom); unruffled
泰爾	Tyre (city in Lebanon)
泰特斯·安德洛尼克斯	Titus Andronicus, 1593 tragedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚
泰瑟	Taser (electroshock weapon)
泰瑟槍	Taser (electroshock weapon)
泰瑟爾島	Texel island, Netherlands
泰盧固語	Telugu or Telegu, the official language of Andhra Pradesh, India
泰米爾	Tamil
泰米爾伊拉姆猛虎解放組織	Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam
泰米爾猛虎組織	Tamil Tigers
泰米爾納德	Tamil Nadu, southeast Indian state, capital Chennai 欽奈|钦奈[Qin1 nai4]
泰米爾納德邦	Tamil Nadu, southeast Indian state, capital Chennai 欽奈|钦奈[Qin1 nai4]
泰米爾語	Tamil language
泰縣	Tai county in Jiangsu
泰興市	Taixing, a county-level city in Taizhou City 泰州市[Tai4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
泰華	Mt Tai 泰山 and Mt Hua 華山|华山; another name for Mt Hua
泰西	(old) the West; the Occident
泰西大儒	Great European Scholar (honorific title of Matteo Ricci)
泰語	Thai (language)
泰迪	toy poodle with a teddy-bear cut
泰迪熊	(loanword) teddy bear
泰達	TEDA (Tianjin Economic Development Area)
泰銖	Thai baht
泰阿	name of a famous sword mentioned in ancient texts
泰雅族	Atayal or Tayal, one of the indigenous ethnic groups of Taiwan
泰順縣	Taishun, a county in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
泱	agitated (wind, cloud); boundless
泱泱	grand; magnificent; vast
泲	clear wine; name of a river
泳	swimming; to swim
泳兒	Vincy Chan, Hong Kong female singer
泳姿	swimming style; swimming stroke
泳將	champion swimmer; swimming star
泳帽	swimming cap
泳池	swimming pool
泳衣	swimsuit; bathing suit
泳裝	swimsuit
泳褲	swim trunks
泳鏡	swimming goggles
泵	pump (loanword)
泵柄	pump handle
泵浦	pump (loanword)
泵燈	lamp; turn signal
泵站	pumping station
洄	eddying; whirling (of water); to go against the current
洄游	(of fish) to migrate
洇	to soak; to blotch; to splotch
洇濕	to soak
洊	flowing water; successive
洋	ocean; vast; foreign
洋中脊	mid-ocean ridge (geology)
洋人	foreigner; (esp.) Westerner
洋務	foreign affairs (in Qing times); foreign learning
洋務學堂	college of Western learning in late Qing
洋務派	the foreign learning or Westernizing faction in the late Qing
洋務運動	Self-Strengthening Movement (period of reforms in China c 1861-1894), also named 自強運動|自强运动
洋化	to Westernize
洋味	Western taste; Western style
洋員	Westerner employed in Qing China (as professor or military advisor etc)
洋垃圾	trash or used goods from Western countries
洋基	New York Yankees (US baseball team)
洋基隊	New York Yankees (US baseball team)
洋場	(old) foreign concession
洋場惡少	a rich young bully of old Shanghai
洋大人	(derog.) foreigner treated as superior; privileged Westerner
洋妞	young foreign girl
洋娃娃	doll (of Western appearance)
洋學	Western learning
洋學堂	school after the Western model, teaching subjects such as foreign languages, math, physics, chemistry etc (old)
洋將	(Tw) (sports) foreign player; import
洋山深水港	Yangshan Deepwater Port (near Shanghai)
洋山港	Yangshan Port (deepwater port near Shanghai)
洋布	machine-woven cloth (old)
洋底	ocean floor; bottom of the ocean
洋底地殼	oceanic crust (geology)
洋式	Western style
洋房	Western-style house
洋教	foreign religion (esp. Western Christianity in Qing China)
洋文	foreign language (esp. Western) (old)
洋服	Western-style clothes
洋柿子	(dialect) tomato
洋桔梗	(botany) lisianthus; prairie gentian (Eustoma russellianum)
洋槍	western style guns (in former times)
洋槐	black locust tree (Robinia pseudoacacia)
洋槐樹	black locust tree (Robinia pseudoacacia)
洋殼	oceanic crust (geology)
洋氣	Western style; foreign flavor; trendy
洋油	imported oil; kerosene
洋洋	vast; impressive; self-satisfied
洋洋得意	immensely pleased with oneself (idiom); proud; complacent
洋洋灑灑	voluminous; flowing (of speeches, articles etc) (idiom)
洋洋自得	immensely pleased with oneself (idiom); proud; complacent
洋流	ocean current
洋浦經濟開發區	Yangpu Economic Development Zone, Hainan
洋涇浜英語	pidgin English
洋溢	brimming with; steeped in
洋漂族	lit. ocean drifting people; job-hopping foreigner
洋火	(coll.) matches (old)
洋灰	cement
洋燕	(bird species of China) Pacific swallow (Hirundo tahitica)
洋片	children's game played with illustrated cards; pogs; menko (Japan)
洋琵琶	mandolin
洋甘菊	Matricaria recutita; chamomile
洋畫兒	children's game played with illustrated cards; pogs; menko (Japan)
洋白菜	cabbage (round cabbage most commonly found in Western countries)
洋相	social gaffe or blunder; faux pas
洋節	Western holiday; non-Chinese festival
洋粉	agar
洋紅	carmine; magenta
洋紫荊	Hong Kong orchid (Bauhinia blakeana)
洋紫蘇	sage (herb)
洋縣	Yang County or Yangxian, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
洋罪	terrible pain; torture; (coll.) pain suffered at the hands of foreigners
洋脊	mid-ocean ridge
洋腔洋調	to speak with a foreign accent or using words from a foreign language (usually derogatory) (idiom)
洋芋	(dialect) potato
洋芋片	(Tw) potato chip
洋芫荽	parsley
洋菇	cultivated mushroom; champignon (Agaricus bisporus)
洋菜	agar
洋蒲桃	love apple; wax apple; Syzygium samarangense (botany)
洋蔥	onion (Allium cepa); bulb onion
洋蔥圈	onion ring
洋薊	globe artichoke
洋薏仁	pearl barley
洋薏米	pearl barley
洋薑	Jerusalem artichoke
洋蘇	sage (herb)
洋行	(old) foreign firm
洋裝	Western-style dress
洋話	foreign language (esp. Western)
洋貨	Western goods; imported goods (in former times)
洋車	rickshaw
洋錢	foreign money; flat silver (former coinage); also written 銀元|银元
洋鎬	pickaxe
洋面	ocean surface
洋香瓜	(Tw) cantaloupe; muskmelon
洋香菜	parsley
洋鬼子	foreign devil; term of abuse for Westerners
洋鹼	soap
洌	pure; to cleanse
洎	to reach; when
洏	to flow (as water or tears)
洑	undercurrent eddy
洗	to wash; to bathe; to develop (photographs); to shuffle (cards etc)
洗冤	to right a wrong; to redress an injustice
洗冤集錄	"Collected Cases of Injustice Rectified" (1247) by Song Ci 宋慈[Song4 Ci2], said to be the world's first forensic science text
洗刷	to wipe clean; to scrub
洗剪吹	shampoo, haircut and blow-dry
洗劫	to loot; to ransack; to pillage
洗劫一空	to steal everything
洗地	to clean the floor
洗心革面	lit. to wash one's heart and renew one's face (idiom); to repent sincerely and mend one's mistaken ways
洗手	to wash one's hands; to go to the toilet
洗手不幹	to totally stop doing something; to reform one's ways
洗手乳	liquid hand soap
洗手台	vanity unit
洗手池	bathroom sink; wash basin
洗手液	liquid hand soap
洗手盆	bathroom sink; wash basin
洗手間	toilet; lavatory; washroom
洗染店	commercial laundry; cleaners
洗洗睡	to have a shower and go to bed
洗浴	to bathe
洗浴中心	bathing and recreation center
洗消	decontamination
洗消劑	decontaminant; decontaminating agent
洗消場	decontaminating field
洗淨	to wash clean
洗溝	to roll a ball into the gutter (ten-pin bowling)
洗滌	to rinse; to wash; washing
洗滌劑	cleaning agent; detergent
洗滌器	washing appliance
洗滌桶	washtub
洗滌槽	washing tank; sink
洗滌機	washer; washing machine; rinsing machine
洗滌間	washroom; washhouse
洗滌靈	dishwashing liquid
洗漱	to wash the face and rinse the mouth
洗潔劑	detergent
洗潔精	dishwashing liquid
洗澡	to bathe; to take a shower
洗澡間	bathroom; restroom; shower room
洗濯	to wash; to cleanse; to launder
洗牌	to shuffle cards, dominoes or mahjong tiles etc
洗牙	(dentistry) to perform or undergo scaling (removal of dental plaque and calculus)
洗甲水	nail polish remover
洗白	to make sth clean and white; (fig.) to whitewash; to launder money
洗盆	basin (water container)
洗石子	(Tw) pebble-wash finish; exposed aggregate surface (construction technique using cement mixed with small stones, then washed to expose the pebbles)
洗碗	to wash the dishes
洗碗機	dishwasher
洗碗池	kitchen sink
洗碗精	dishwashing liquid
洗禮	(lit. and fig.) baptism
洗稿	to modify a text so it can be plagiarized without detection (neologism c. 2014, formed by analogy with 洗錢|洗钱[xi3 qian2], to launder money)
洗綠	to greenwash
洗練	agile; nimble; deft
洗者若翰	St John the Baptist
洗耳恭聽	to listen with respectful attention; (a polite request to sb to speak)
洗胃	(medicine) to give or receive gastric lavage; to get one's stomach pumped
洗脫	to cleanse; to purge; to wash away
洗腎	to have dialysis treatment
洗腦	to brainwash
洗臉	to wash the face
洗臉盆	washbowl; basin for washing hands and face
洗臉盤	a hand basin
洗臉臺	commode; dressing table; sink
洗衣	laundry
洗衣店	laundry (commercial establishment)
洗衣房	laundry room
洗衣板	washboard; (jocular) flat chest
洗衣機	washing machine; washer
洗衣液	liquid laundry detergent
洗衣粉	laundry detergent; washing powder
洗衣網	mesh laundry bag (for keeping garments separate from others in the washing machine)
洗車	to wash a car; to get a car wash
洗錢	to launder money
洗雪	to erase; to wipe out (a previous humiliation etc)
洗面	facial cleansing
洗面乳	cleansing lotion
洗面奶	cleansing lotion
洗頭	to wash one's hair; to have a shampoo
洗馬	(official title) herald to the crown prince (in imperial China)
洗髮乳	shampoo
洗髮劑	shampoo
洗髮水	shampoo (liquid)
洗髮水兒	shampoo
洗髮液	shampoo
洗髮皂	shampoo
洗髮粉	shampoo powder
洗髮精	shampoo
洗髮露	shampoo
洗黑錢	money laundering
洙	name of a river
洚	flood
洛	used in transliteration
洛佩斯	Lopez (name)
洛佩茲	Lopez (name)
洛倫茨	Lorentz (name)
洛克人	Rockman or Mega Man (video game series)
洛克菲勒	Rockefeller
洛克西德	Lockheed (US aerospace company)
洛南縣	Luonan, a county in Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
洛可可	rococo (loanword); very ornate
洛基	Loki, god of fire and mischievous destroyer in Norse mythology
洛基山	Rocky Mountains; also written 洛磯山|洛矶山
洛子峰	Lhotse Mountain, between Tibet and Nepal
洛寧縣	Luoning, a county in Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
洛川縣	Luochuan, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
洛希爾	Rothschild (name)
洛德	Lord (name)
洛必達法則	L'Hôpital's rule (math.)
洛扎縣	Lhozhag, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
洛杉磯	Los Angeles, California
洛杉磯時報	Los Angeles Times
洛杉磯湖人	Los Angeles Lakers (NBA team)
洛林	Lorraine (region in France)
洛桑	Lausanne (city in Switzerland)
洛江區	Luojiang, a district of Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
洛河	name of several rivers
洛浦縣	Lop, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
洛皮塔	Lawpita Falls on the Balu Chaung river, location of Myanmar's biggest hydroelectric plant
洛皮塔瀑布	Lawpita Falls on the Balu Chaung river, location of Myanmar's biggest hydroelectric plant
洛磯山	Rocky Mountains
洛磯山脈	Rocky Mountains
洛神花	roselle (Hibiscus sabdariffa)
洛美	Lomé; Lome, capital of Togo
洛錫安區	Lothian, Scottish region around Edinburgh
洛陽市	Luoyang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
洛陽紙貴	lit. paper has become expensive in Luoyang (because everyone is making a copy of a popular story) (idiom)
洛隆縣	Lhorong, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
洛龍區	Luolong, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
洞	cave; hole; zero (unambiguous spoken form when spelling out numbers)
洞口	cave mouth; tunnel entrance
洞口縣	Dongkou, a county in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
洞天	paradise; heavenly or beautiful place; fairyland
洞子	cave; pit; (coll.) greenhouse
洞孔	hole
洞察	to see clearly
洞察一切	to see everything clearly
洞察力	insight
洞府	cave dwelling; legendary abode of immortals
洞庭湖	Dongting Lake in northeast Hunan province
洞悉	to clearly understand
洞房	secret inner room; bridal room
洞房花燭	bridal room and ornamented candles; wedding festivities (idiom)
洞房花燭夜	wedding night
洞泄	lienteric diarrhea (TCM)
洞洞鞋	Crocs shoes (or any similar shoe)
洞穴	cave; cavern
洞穿	to penetrate; to pierce; to see clearly
洞窟	a cave
洞若觀火	lit. to see sth as clearly as one sees a blazing fire (idiom)
洞螈	olm (Proteus anguinus)
洞見	insight; to see clearly
洞鑒	to examine deeply; to inspect closely
洞開	to be wide open
洞頭區	Dongtou, a district of Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
洟	nasal mucus; Taiwan pr. [yi2]
洢	old name of a river in Henan, now written 伊河
洣	Mi river in Hunan, tributary of Xiangjiang 湘江
洣水	Mi river in Hunan, tributary of Xiangjiang 湘江
津	abbr. for Tianjin 天津[Tian1 jin1]
津南	Jinnan suburban district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
津南區	Jinnan suburban district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
津塔	Jin Tower
津島	Tsushima (city in Japan)
津巴布韋	Zimbabwe
津市市	Jinshi, a county-level city in Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
津梁	(literary) guide; person or thing serving as a bridge to further progress
津沽	another name for Tianjin 天津
津津	enthusiastic; ardent; (with) great relish
津津有味	with keen interest (idiom); with great pleasure; with gusto
津津樂道	to discuss sth enthusiastically
津液	bodily fluids (general term in Chinese medicine)
津澤	fluids (esp. in plants); sap
津要	(literary) key location; key post (important job)
津貼	allowance
洧	name of a river
洧水	river in Henan
洨	(Tw) (vulgar) semen (from Taiwanese 潲, Tai-lo pr. [siâu])
洨河	Xiao River in Hebei
洩	(bound form) to leak out; to discharge; (fig.) to divulge
洩勁	to lose heart; to feel discouraged
洩密	to leak secrets
洩底	to divulge the inside story
洩怒	to give vent to anger
洩恨	to give vent to anger
洩慾	to sate one's lust
洩慾工具	sexual object
洩憤	to give vent to anger
洩氣	to leak (gas); to be discouraged; to despair
洩洪	to release flood water; flood discharge
洩洪閘	sluice-gate; flood discharge valve
洩流	drainage
洩漏	(of a liquid or gas) to leak; to divulge; to leak (information)
洩痢	to have diarrhea
洩私憤	to vent personal spite; to act out of malice (esp. of crime)
洪	flood; big; great
洪亮	loud and clear; resonant
洪亮吉	Hong Liangji (1746-1809), poet and historian
洪佛	Hung Fut style kung fu
洪博培	Jon Huntsman, Jr. (1960-), US politician, Governor of Utah 2005-2009, Ambassador to China 2009-2011
洪堡	Humboldt
洪家	the Hong family (household); Hung Gar Kung Fu - Martial Art
洪山區	Hongshan, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
洪峰	flood peak
洪森	Hun Sen (1952-), prime minister of Cambodia since 1985
洪武	Hongwu Emperor, also written Hung-wu Ti, reign name of first Ming emperor Zhu Yuanzhang 朱元璋[Zhu1 Yuan2 zhang1] (1328-1398), reigned 1386-1398, temple name 明太祖[Ming2 Tai4 zu3]
洪水	deluge; flood
洪水期	flood season
洪水滔滔	(idiom) to have flooding over a vast area
洪水猛獸	lit. severe floods and fierce beasts (idiom); fig. great scourges
洪汛期	flood season
洪江市	Hongjiang, a county-level city in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
洪江管理區	Hongjiang Management District, a district of Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
洪洞縣	Hongtong, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
洪流	a powerful current; a flood (often fig., e.g. a flood of ideas)
洪淵	vast and profound
洪湖市	Honghu, a county-level city in Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
洪澇	flood; inundation; flooding
洪澤區	Hongze, a district of Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
洪澤湖	Hongze Lake in Jiangsu province
洪災	flood
洪熙	Hongxi Emperor, reign name of fourth Ming emperor Zhu Gaochi 朱高熾|朱高炽[Zhu1 Gao1 chi4] (1378-1425), reigned (1424-1425), temple name 明仁宗[Ming2 Ren2 zong1]
洪爐	great furnace (metaphor for a place where character is forged)
洪福	good fortune; great blessing
洪福齊天	flood of good fortune fills the heavens (idiom); a lucky sign
洪秀全	Hong Xiuquan or Hung Hsiu-ch'üan (1814-1864), leader of the Taiping rebellion or Taiping Heavenly Kingdom
洪秀柱	Hung Hsiu-chu (1948-), Taiwanese KMT politician
洪都拉斯	Honduras
洪雅族	Hoanya, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
洪雅縣	Hongya, a county in Meishan City 眉山市[Mei2 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
洫	to ditch; a moat
洭	ancient name of a river 洭河[Kuang1 He2] in present-day Guangdong
洭河	Kuang River, ancient name of a river in present-day Guangdong
洮	to cleanse; name of a river
洮北區	Taobei, a district of Baicheng City 白城市[Bai2 cheng2 Shi4], Jilin
洮南市	Taonan, a county-level city in Baicheng City 白城市[Bai2 cheng2 Shi4], Jilin
洱海	Erhai Lake
洱源縣	Eryuan, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
洲	continent; island in a river
洲府	state government
洲際	intercontinental
洲際導彈	intercontinental ballistic missile ICBM
洲際彈道導彈	intercontinental ballistic missile ICBM
洳	damp; boggy; marshy
洴	wash; bleach (fabric)
洵	truly; whirlpool
洶	torrential rush; tumultuous
洶湧	to surge up violently (of ocean, river, lake etc); turbulent
洸	sparkling water
洹	name of a river
洺	name of a river
活	to live; alive; living
活下	to survive
活下去	to survive; to keep on living
活不下去	impossible to make a living
活久見	(neologism c. 2006) if you live long enough, you'll see everything
活人	living person
活人讓尿憋死	lit. such a fool as to die from holding in one's pee (idiom)
活佛	Living Buddha; title of Mongolian Lamas from 17th century
活便	nimble; agile; convenient
活像	to look exactly like; to be the spitting image of
活兒	work; (lots of) things to do
活分	nimble
活到老，學到老	One is never too old to learn. (idiom)
活力	energy; vitality; vigor
活力四射	dynamic; enthusiastic; energetic
活動	to exercise; to move about; to work out
活動中心	activity center
活動人士	activist
活動場地	place for activities (playground, event venue etc)
活動家	activist
活動房	prefabricated building; prefab
活動房屋	prefabricated building; prefab; mobile home
活動扳手	adjustable spanner
活動掛圖	flipchart
活動桌面	active desktop
活動看板	calendar of events
活動能力	mobility; motility
活化	activation
活化分析	activation analysis
活化石	living fossil
活受罪	(coll.) to go through sheer hell
活口	sb who witnesses a crime and is not killed by the perpetrator
活命	life; to survive; to save a life
活埋	to bury alive
活報劇	political street theater (loanword from Zhivaya Gazeta, or Living Newspaper, Russian theater form of the 1920s)
活塞	piston
活套	noose; running knot
活好	to live (one's life) well; (slang) to be good in bed
活字	movable type
活字典	walking dictionary; well-informed person
活字印刷	printing with movable type
活存	demand deposit (abbr. for 活期存款[huo2 qi1 cun2 kuan3])
活學活用	to creatively combine learning with usage
活寶	buffoon; clown; ridiculous person
活屍	zombie
活度	activity
活得不耐煩	to be tired of living; (coll.) to be asking for trouble
活性	(chemistry) activity; active; activated
活性劑	reagent (chemistry)
活性氧類	activated oxygen species (AOS)
活性炭	activated carbon
活捉	to capture alive
活摘	to harvest (an organ) from a living person
活期	(banking) current (account); checking (account); demand (deposit etc)
活期存款	demand deposit
活期帳戶	current account (in bank)
活期貸款	demand loan (i.e. loan that the borrower can demanded back at any time)
活期資金	funds on call; invested sum that can be cashed
活板	trapdoor
活檢	biopsy; abbr. for 活體組織檢查|活体组织检查[huo2 ti3 zu3 zhi1 jian3 cha2]
活氣	spirited atmosphere
活水	naturally flowing water (as opposed to stagnant water)
活泛	flexible; adaptable
活活	while still alive; simply; totally
活潑	lively; vivacious; brisk
活火	flaming fire; flames
活火山	active volcano
活版	typography; movable type
活版印刷	printing with movable type; typesetting
活物	living animals
活瓣	valve
活生生	real (people); living (artist); while still alive (e.g. skinned alive)
活用	to apply (knowledge etc) creatively and flexibly
活神仙	a god living in our midst (sb who can predict the future like a prophet or who leads a life without constraints)
活禽	live poultry
活組織檢查	biopsy
活結	a slip-knot; a noose
活罪	bitter sufferings; great hardships
活脫	remarkably alike
活脫脫	remarkably alike
活色生香	(of a flower) vividly colorful and fragrant
活茬	farm work
活菩薩	a living Buddha; fig. compassionate person; saint
活著	alive
活血	to improve blood circulation (Chinese medicine)
活見鬼	what the hell; preposterous
活計	handicraft; needlework; work
活該	(coll.) serve sb right; deservedly; ought
活路	through road; way out; way to survive
活蹦亂跳	to leap and frisk about (idiom); lively; healthy and active
活躍	active; lively; excited
活躍分子	active member; activist
活錢	cash on hand; readily available funds; extra income
活門	valve
活雷鋒	a selfless, helpful person, like the model citizen Lei Feng 雷鋒|雷锋[Lei2 Feng1] (often used to refer to sb in a joking or teasing way)
活靈活現	living spirit, living image (idiom); true to life; vivid and realistic
活靶子	live target; target (of criticism etc)
活體	living body; live specimen
活體檢視	biopsy
活體組織檢查	biopsy; abbr. to 活檢|活检[huo2 jian3]
活魚	fresh fish; living fish
活龍活現	living spirit, living image (idiom); true to life; vivid and realistic
洽	accord; to make contact; to agree
洽商	to negotiate; to talk over
洽詢	to inquire (of); to consult
洽談	to discuss
派	(literary) tributary; branch of a river
派上用場	to put to good use; to come in handy
派任	to set apart; to assign sb to a job
派克	Pike or Peck (name); Parker Pen Company
派克大衣	parka jacket (loanword)
派兵	to dispatch troops
派出	to send; to dispatch
派出所	local police station
派別	group; sect; clique; faction; school
派力奧	Fiat Palio
派勢	style; manner
派司	(loanword); pass (for gaining admittance)
派員	to dispatch personnel; to send staff (to perform a task or attend an event)
派單	to hand out leaflets
派定	to believe; to be convinced
派對	(loanword) party
派性	factionalism; tribalism
派拉蒙影業	Paramount Pictures (US movie company)
派斯托	pesto (Italian sauce) (loanword)
派生	to produce (from sth else); to derive (from raw material); derivative
派生詞	derivative word
派系	sect; faction
派翠西亞	Patricia
派購	fixed government purchase (esp of farm products)
派送	to send; to deliver; to distribute
派遣	to send (on a mission); to dispatch
派遺	to send (sb) on a mission; to dispatch
派頭	manner; style; panache
派駐	to dispatch (sb) in an official capacity
洿	dig (a pond); stagnant water
流	to flow; to disseminate; to circulate or spread
流亡	to go into exile; to be in exile
流亡政府	government-in-exile
流佈	to spread; to circulate; to disseminate
流俗	prevailing customs (often pejorative); vulgar customs
流傳	to spread; to circulate; to hand down
流光溢彩	(idiom) brilliant lights and vibrant colors
流入	to flow into; inflow
流出	to flow out; to issue; to leak
流刑	exile (as a form of punishment)
流別	branch (of a river); school (of thought)
流利	fluent
流動	to flow; to circulate; to move about; mobile; (of assets) liquid
流動人口	floating population; transient population
流動兒童	children of migrant workers
流動性	flowing; shifting; fluidity; mobility; liquidity (of funds)
流動率	turnover rate (esp. of staff)
流動負債	(accounting) current liabilities
流動資產	(financial reporting) current assets; liquid assets
流動資金	(accounting) working capital; circulating funds
流口水	to drool; to salivate; (fig.) to covet; to lust after
流向	direction of a current; direction of flow; to flow toward
流域	river basin; valley; drainage area
流失	(of soil etc) to wash away; to be eroded
流媒	streaming media (abbr. for 流媒體|流媒体[liu2 mei2 ti3])
流媒體	streaming media
流宕忘反	to stray and forget to return
流寇	roving bandit; rebel band
流居	to live in exile
流嵐	mountain mist
流年	fleeting time; horoscope for the year
流年不利	the year's horoscope augurs ill (idiom); an unlucky year
流弊	malpractice; long-running abuse
流彈	stray bullet
流形	manifold (math.)
流感	flu; influenza
流感季	flu season
流感疫苗	influenza vaccine
流感病毒	influenza virus; flu virus
流拍	(of an item) to fail to sell at an auction
流播	to circulate; to hand around
流放	to exile; to banish; to deport
流於	to change (for the worse)
流於形式	to become a mere formality
流明	lumen (unit of light flux) (loanword)
流星	meteor; shooting star
流星趕月	lit. a meteor catching up with the moon; swift action (idiom)
流星錘	meteor hammer (ancient weapon consisting of two iron balls connected by a chain)
流星雨	meteor shower
流星體	meteoroid
流暢	flowing (of speech, writing); fluent; smooth and easy
流標	(of an auction) to be inconclusive
流毒	to spread poison; pernicious influence
流民	refugee
流氓	rogue; hoodlum; gangster
流氓國家	rogue state
流氓無產者	lumpenproletariat (in Marxist theory)
流氓罪	the crime of hooliganism
流氓軟件	malware (computing)
流氓集團	gang of hoodlums
流水	running water; (business) turnover
流水不腐	flowing water does not rot
流水不腐，戶樞不蠹	lit. flowing water does not rot, nor a door-hinge rust (idiom)
流水席	banquet where guests arrive at various times and are served with food as they arrive
流水線	assembly line; (computing) pipeline
流水賬	day-to-day account; current account
流汗	to sweat
流沙	quicksand
流沙包	salted egg custard bun; lava bun (steamed bun with a sweet runny egg custard filling, a popular dim sum)
流泆	to indulge; licentious
流派	tributary (stream); (fig.) school (of thought); genre
流浪	to drift about; to wander; to roam
流浪兒	street urchin; waif
流浪漢	tramp; wanderer
流浪狗	stray dog
流浪者	rover; vagabond; vagrant
流浪貓	stray cat
流涎	(literary) to salivate; to drool; (fig.) to crave sth hungrily
流淌	to flow
流淚	to shed tears
流瀉	to flow; to flood
流片	to tape out (in semiconductor manufacturing)
流球群島	the Ryukyu or Luchu Islands (including Okinawa)
流理台	kitchen counter (generally including sink, food preparation area and gas range) (Tw)
流產	to have a miscarriage; (fig.) to fail; to fall through
流目	to let one's eyes rove
流眄	to ogle; to glance in a shifty manner
流程	course; stream; sequence of processes
流程圖	flow chart
流程表	flow chart
流竄	to roam all over the place
流竄犯	criminal at large
流紋岩	rhyolite (extrusive igneous rock, chemically equivalent to granite)
流網	drift net (fishing)
流線	streamline (physics)
流線型	sleek; streamlined
流腦	epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis (abbr. for 流行性腦膜炎|流行性脑膜炎[liu2 xing2 xing4 nao3 mo2 yan2])
流膿	to discharge pus; to suppurate
流芳	to leave a good reputation
流芳百世	(of one's name, reputation etc) to be immortalized (idiom)
流落	to wander about destitute; to be stranded
流落他鄉	to wander far from home
流蕩	to float; to tramp; to rove
流蘇	tassels
流蘇鷸	(bird species of China) ruff (Calidris pugnax)
流螢	firefly
流血	to bleed; to shed blood
流行	(of a contagious disease etc) to spread; to propagate
流行性	qualities that make sth popular or fashionable
流行性感冒	influenza
流行株	epidemic strain
流行病	epidemic disease
流行病學	epidemiology
流行語	popular jargon; catchword
流行音樂	pop music
流裡流氣	hooliganism; rowdyism
流覽	to skim; to browse
流言	rumor; gossip; to spread rumors
流言蜚語	rumors and slanders (idiom); gossip; lies and slanders
流調	epidemiological survey (abbr. for 流行病學調查|流行病学调查[liu2 xing2 bing4 xue2 diao4 cha2])
流變	to flow and change; development and change (of society)
流變學	rheology
流變能力	rheology
流輩	a contemporary; similar class of people
流轉	to be on the move; to roam or wander
流通	to circulate; to distribute; circulation; distribution
流逝	(of time) to pass; to elapse
流速	flow speed; rate of flow
流連	to loiter (i.e. reluctant to leave); to linger on
流連忘返	to linger; to remain enjoying oneself and forget to go home
流量	flow rate; throughput of passengers; volume of traffic
流量明星	(neologism c. 2014) celebrity with a huge, devoted fan base
流量計	flowmeter
流離	homeless and miserable
流離失所	destitute and homeless (idiom); forced from one's home and wandering about
流離遇合	to reunite after being homeless refugees
流離顛沛	destitute and homeless (idiom); displaced and without means
流露	to reveal (indirectly, implicitly)
流韻	musical sound; flowing rhythm (of poetry); cadence
流食	(medicine) liquid food
流體	fluid
流體力學	fluid mechanics; hydrodynamics
流體動力學	fluid dynamics
流體核試驗	hydronuclear explosion (HNE)
流麗	smooth and ornate; flowing (style etc)
流鼻涕	to have a runny nose
流鼻血	to bleed from the nose; (fig.) to be sexually aroused
浙	short name for Zhejiang 浙江[Zhe4 jiang1]
浙江大學	Zhejiang University
浙江省	Zhejiang Province, capital Hangzhou 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4] (short name 浙[Zhe4])
浙菜	Zhejiang cuisine
浙贛	Zhejiang-Jiangxi
浚	used in 浚縣|浚县[Xun4 Xian4] (the name of a place in Henan)
浚泥船	dredger
浚渫	to dredge
浚縣	Xun County or Xunxian, a county in Hebi City 鶴壁市|鹤壁市[He4 bi4 Shi4], Henan
浜	stream; creek
浞	(coll.) to drench
浠	name of a river in Hubei
浠水縣	Xishui, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
浡	full; gushing (of fountain)
浣	to wash; to rinse
浣女	washerwoman
浣洗	to wash (clothes)
浣滌	to wash; to rinse
浣濯	to wash; to rinse
浣熊	raccoon (Procyon lotor)
浣紗	to wash silk
浣紗記	Huansahji or Washing the Silken Gauze, Yuan and Ming saga reworked by 梁辰魚|梁辰鱼 from History of the Southern States Wu and Yue, 吳越春秋|吴越春秋, a popular opera subject
浣衣	to wash clothes
浣雪	to cleanse oneself of false accusations
浤	sound of water surging
浥	damp; moist
浦	river bank; shore; river drainage ditch (old)
浦北縣	Pubei, a county in Qinzhou City 欽州市|钦州市[Qin1 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
浦口區	Pukou, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
浦城縣	Pucheng, a county in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
浦東	Pudong, a district of Shanghai to the east of the Huangpu River, full name 浦東新區|浦东新区[Pu3 dong1 Xin1 qu1]
浦東機場	Shanghai Pudong International Airport
浦江縣	Pujiang, a county in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
浦西	Puxi, the area of Shanghai located west of the Huangpu River 黃浦江|黄浦江[Huang2 pu3 Jiang1], known as the historic urban center of the city
浦那	Pune, second city of Mahārāshtra 馬哈拉施特拉邦|马哈拉施特拉邦 in western India
浦項	Pohang (city in South Korea)
浩	grand; vast (water)
浩劫	calamity; catastrophe; apocalypse
浩博	vast and plentiful; ample; very many
浩大	vast; huge
浩如煙海	vast as the open sea (idiom); fig. extensive (library)
浩室	house (music genre) (loanword)
浩氣	vast spirit; nobility of spirit
浩浩	vast; expansive (universe); torrential (floods)
浩浩蕩蕩	(idiom) grandiose; majestic
浩淼	vast; extending into the distance
浩渺	vast; extending into the distance
浩瀚	vast (of ocean); boundless
浩然	Hao Ran (1932-2008), journalist and proletarian novelist
浩特	nomadic camp; town or village (Mongolian: khot)
浩繁	vast; voluminous; many and varied
浩茫	boundless; unlimited
浩蕩	vast and mighty (of river or ocean); broad and powerful
浩闊	vast
浪	wave; breaker; unrestrained
浪人	vagrant; unemployed person; rōnin (wandering masterless samurai)
浪卡子縣	Nagarzê, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
浪女	loose woman
浪子	loafer; wastrel; prodigal son
浪子回頭	the return of a prodigal son (idiom)
浪子回頭金不換	a prodigal son returned home is worth more than gold
浪得虛名	to have an undeserved reputation (idiom)
浪湧	(electrical) surge
浪漫	romantic
浪漫主義	romanticism
浪潮	wave; tides
浪濤	ocean wave; billows
浪船	swingboat
浪花	spray; ocean spray; spindrift
浪莽	vast
浪蕩	to loiter; to hang around; dissolute
浪蝕	wave erosion
浪谷	trough of a wave; (fig.) low point; lowest level
浪費	to waste; to squander
浪費金錢	to squander money; to spend extravagantly
浪跡	to roam about; to wander without a home
浪跡天涯	to roam far and wide (idiom); to travel the world
浪跡江湖	to roam far and wide; to drift with the wind
浪頭	wave
浬	nautical mile
浭	name of a river in Hebei
浮	to float; superficial; floating
浮上	to float up; to rise to the surface; fig. to rise in the world
浮世	(Buddhism) the world of the living
浮世繪	ukiyo-e
浮光掠影	flickering light and passing shadows (idiom); blurred scenery; cursory
浮冰	ice floe
浮出	to emerge
浮出水面	to float up (idiom); to become evident; to surface; to appear
浮利	mere worldly, superficial gain, such as wealth and fame
浮力	buoyancy
浮力定律	Archimedes' principle (physical law of buoyancy)
浮力調整背心	BCD; Buoyancy Compensation Device (diving)
浮力調整裝置	BCD; Buoyancy Compensation Device (diving)
浮動	to drift about; to move unsteadily
浮動地獄	floating hell; slave ships
浮動窗口	(computing) floating window
浮圖	alternative term for 佛陀[Fo2 tuo2]
浮土	topsoil; surface dust
浮塵	dust (floating in the air or settled on a surface)
浮士德博士	Dr Faustus
浮家泛宅	lit. to live on a boat; to drift from place to place (idiom)
浮小麥	unripe wheat grain (used in TCM)
浮屍	floating corpse
浮屠	Buddha; Buddhist stupa (transliteration of Pali thupo)
浮山縣	Fushan, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
浮岩	pumice
浮想	passing thought; an idea that comes into one's head; recollection
浮想聯翩	to let one's imagination roam
浮梁縣	Fuliang, a county in Jingdezhen City 景德鎮市|景德镇市[Jing3 de2 zhen4 Shi4], Jiangxi
浮標	buoy
浮橋	pontoon bridge
浮氣	feeble breath; frivolity; flippancy
浮沉	ups and downs (of life etc); to drift along; to sink and emerge
浮沫	froth; foam
浮泛	to float about; (of a feeling) to show on the face
浮淺	skin-deep; superficial; shallow
浮游	to float; to drift; to wander
浮游生物	plankton
浮滑	(of language or behavior) flippant and insincere
浮潛	to snorkel
浮濫	excessive; exorbitant; excessively
浮現	(of a thought or image) to come to mind
浮生六記	Six Records of a Floating Life, autobiographical novel and description of Qing dynasty life by 沈復|沈复[Shen3 Fu4], published 1808
浮盈	(finance) floating profit; unrealized profit
浮石	pumice
浮窗	(computing) floating window
浮腫	(nonspecialist term for 水腫|水肿[shui3 zhong3]) to suffer from edema; swollen; bloated; puffy
浮腫病	(medicine) edema; dropsy
浮華	ostentatious; pretentious; showy
浮萍	duckweed
浮著	afloat
浮薄	frivolous; superficial
浮虧	(finance) floating loss; unrealized loss
浮詞	florid but insubstantial remarks; misleading way of saying sth
浮誇	to exaggerate; to be boastful; pompous
浮財	movable property; money and belongings; non-real estate assets
浮貼	to glue something lightly enough that it can be removed later
浮質	aerosol
浮起	to float; to emerge
浮躁	fickle and impatient; restless; giddy
浮選	flotation process
浮雕	relief sculpture
浮雕牆紙	embossed wallpaper
浮雲	floating clouds; fleeting; transient
浮雲朝露	floating clouds, morning dew (idiom); fig. ephemeral nature of human existence
浮面	surface (of a liquid); superficial
浮點	(computing) floating point
浮點型	(computing) floating-point; float
浮點數	(computing) floating-point number; float
浮點運算	floating point operation
浯	(name of several rivers in China)
浰	to attend (official functions)
浲	(used in place names)
浴	bath; to bathe
浴場	bathing spot
浴室	bathroom; shower room (CL:間|间[jian1]); bathhouse
浴巾	bath towel
浴帽	shower cap
浴櫃	bathroom cabinet
浴池	public bath
浴液	body wash
浴火重生	to rise from the ashes (idiom)
浴球	shower puff; bath sponge; bath ball (containing aromas or salts)
浴盆	bathtub
浴簾	shower curtain
浴缸	bathtub
浴花	shower puff; shower sponge
浴血	bathed in blood; (fig.) amid bloodshed and great sacrifice
浴血奮戰	(idiom) to fight bravely amid bloodshed and great sacrifice
浴衣	bathrobe; yukata, lightweight informal kimono worn in summer
浴袍	bathrobe
浴霸	bathroom infrared heater, marketed as "bath master"
浴鹽	bath salts
海	ocean; sea; great number of people or things
海上	maritime
海上奇書	literary journal published in 1892–93 by Han Bangqing 韓邦慶|韩邦庆[Han2 Bang1 qing4] featuring serialized novels in Classical Chinese and Jiangsu vernacular
海上花列傳	"The Sing-Song Girls of Shanghai", a novel by Han Bangqing 韓邦慶|韩邦庆[Han2 Bang1 qing4] depicting the lives of Shanghai courtesans in the late Qing dynasty
海事	maritime affairs; accident at sea
海事局	PRC Maritime Safety Agency
海事法院	maritime court
海事處	Marine Department (Hong Kong)
海于格松	Haugesund (city in Rogaland, Norway)
海伯利	Highbury (name)
海信	Hisense (brand)
海倫	(name) Helen or Hélène
海倫·凱勒	Helen Keller (1880-1968), famous American deaf-blind author and activist (whose story is told in biopic The Miracle Worker)
海倫市	Hailun, a county-level city in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
海兔	sea hare (large sea slugs, mostly of genus Aplysia)
海內	the whole world; throughout the land; everything under the sun
海內外	domestic and international; at home and abroad
海內存知己，天涯若比鄰	close friend in a distant land, far-flung realms as next door
海刺芹	sea holly (Eryngium maritimum)
海勃灣區	Haibowan, a district of Wuhai City 烏海市|乌海市[Wu1 hai3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
海北藏族自治州	Haibei Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
海協會	Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits (ARATS)
海南區	Hainan, a district of Wuhai City 烏海市|乌海市[Wu1 hai3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
海南大學	Hainan University
海南孔雀雉	(bird species of China) Hainan peacock-pheasant (Polyplectron katsumatae)
海南山鷓鴣	(bird species of China) Hainan partridge (Arborophila ardens)
海南島	Hainan Island, China's southernmost province, off the coast of Guangdong
海南柳鶯	(bird species of China) Hainan leaf warbler (Phylloscopus hainanus)
海南省	Hainan Province, capital Haikou 海口市[Hai3 kou3 Shi4] (short name 瓊|琼[Qiong2])
海南藍仙鶲	(bird species of China) Hainan blue flycatcher (Cyornis hainanus)
海南藏族自治州	Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
海南鰁	Sarcocheilichthys hainanensis, a species of cyprinid fish found in China, Laos and Vietnam
海南鳽	(bird species of China) white-eared night heron (Oroanassa magnifica)
海印寺	Haein Temple in South Gyeongsang province of South Korea, the repository of Tripitaka Koreana 高麗大藏經|高丽大藏经[Gao1 li2 Da4 zang4 jing1], a World Heritage site
海原縣	Haiyuan, a county in Zhongwei City 中衛市|中卫市[Zhong1 wei4 Shi4], Ningxia
海參	sea cucumber
海參崴	Haishenwai, traditional Chinese name for Vladivostok 符拉迪沃斯托克[Fu2 la1 di2 wo4 si1 tuo1 ke4]
海口	estuary; coastal inlet; river mouth
海口市	Haikou, prefecture-level city and capital of Hainan Province 海南省[Hai3 nan2 Sheng3]
海味	seafood
海員	sailor; mariner
海嘯	tsunami
海地	Haiti
海城區	Haicheng, a district of Beihai City 北海市[Bei3 hai3 Shi4], Guangxi
海城市	Haicheng, a county-level city in Anshan City 鞍山市[An1 shan1 Shi4], Liaoning
海域	sea area; territorial waters; maritime space
海基會	Straits Exchange Foundation (SEF), semi-official organization established by the ROC government in Taiwan
海堤	levee; dyke; seawall
海報	poster; playbill; notice
海塗	tidal marsh; shoal; shallows
海塗圍墾	tideland reclamation
海外	overseas; abroad
海外版	foreign edition (of a newspaper)
海外赤子	patriotic overseas compatriot
海子	(dialect) wetlands; lake
海安市	Hai'an, a county-level city in Nantong City 南通市[Nan2 tong1 Shi4], Jiangsu
海寧市	Haining, a county-level city in Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
海寶	Haibao, Expo 2010 mascot
海尼根	Heineken (Dutch brewing company)
海岬	headland
海岱	Haidai, historical region extending from the Bohai Sea to Mt Tai in Shandong
海岸	coastal; seacoast
海岸線	coastline; seaboard; shoreline
海岸警衛隊	coastguard
海岸護衛隊	coast guard
海島	island
海島市	Municipality of the Islands (Macau); Concelho das Ilhas
海峽	strait; channel
海峽交流基金會	Straits Exchange Foundation (SEF); abbr. to 海基會|海基会[Hai3 ji1 hui4]
海峽兩岸關係協會	PRC Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits (ARATS)
海峽時報	The Straits Times
海峽群島	Channel Islands
海嶺	mid-ocean ridge
海州區	Haizhou, a district of Lianyungang City 連雲港市|连云港市[Lian2 yun2 gang3 Shi4], Jiangsu
海巡	coast guard
海市	(lit. and fig.) mirage
海市蜃樓	(idiom) (lit. and fig.) mirage
海帶	kelp
海平面	sea level
海床	seabed; seafloor; ocean floor
海底	seabed; seafloor; bottom of the ocean
海底撈	Haidilao (aka Hai Di Lao), hot pot restaurant chain founded in Sichuan in 1994
海底撈月	(mahjong) to complete one's hand on the last draw of the round
海底擴張	seafloor spreading (geology)
海底擴張說	theory of seafloor spreading (geology)
海底椰	coco de mer or "sea coconut" (Lodoicea maldivica)
海底熱泉	(marine geology) hydrothermal vent
海底輪	muladhara, the root or Saturn chakra, residing in the coccyx
海待	student who has returned from overseas but is yet to find a job (pun on 海帶|海带[hai3 dai4])
海德	(surname) Hyde
海德保	Heidelberg (Germany)
海德公園	Hyde Park
海德堡	Heidelberg
海德格爾	Martin Heidegger (1889-1976), German philosopher
海德爾堡	Heidelberg
海怪	sea monster
海戰	sea warfare; naval battle
海扁	(slang) to beat sb up
海拉爾區	Hailar, a district of Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
海拔	height above sea level; elevation
海損	damage to goods during shipping
海斯	(name) Hayes
海日	(literary) the sun over the sea
海明威	Ernest Hemingway (1899-1961), American novelist and journalist
海星	starfish; sea star
海星機場	nickname of Beijing Daxing International Airport 北京大興國際機場|北京大兴国际机场[Bei3 jing1 Da4 xing1 Guo2 ji4 Ji1 chang3], whose terminal building looks like a giant alien starfish
海晏河清	(lit.) the Yellow River is clear and the seas are calm (idiom)
海晏縣	Haiyan, a county in Haibei Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海北藏族自治州[Hai3 bei3 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
海景	seascape; sea view
海曙區	Haishu, a district of Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
海東	(also can refer to Liaodong, the Korean Peninsula, Bohai or Japan, depending on the historical context)
海東市	Haidong, prefecture-level city in Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
海東青	(bird species of China) gyrfalcon (Falco rusticolus)
海林市	Hailin, a county-level city in Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
海枯石爛	(lit.) until the seas dry up and stones go soft (idiom)
海棗	date palm; date (fruit)
海棠	Chinese flowering crab apple (Malus spectabilis)
海棠區	Haitang, a district of Sanya City 三亞市|三亚市[San1 ya4 Shi4], Hainan
海棠形	quatrefoil (usually elongated)
海棠花	Chinese flowering crab-apple (Malus spectabilis)
海森伯	Werner Heisenberg (1901-1976), German physicist
海森堡	Werner Heisenberg (1901–1976), German physicist
海椒	(dialect) hot pepper
海椰子	coco de mer or "sea coconut" (Lodoicea maldivica)
海榴	(literary) pomegranate
海歸	sb who has come back to China after gaining overseas experience (a pun on 海龜|海龟[hai3 gui1])
海水	seawater
海水倒灌	saltwater intrusion
海水養殖	aquaculture
海水魚	saltwater fish
海沙	sea sand
海河	Hai He (a system of five waterways around Tianjin, flowing into Bohai 渤海 at Dagukou 大沽口)
海況	sea state; sea conditions
海法	Haifa (city in Israel)
海波	hypo (loanword)
海洋	ocean
海洋學	oceanography
海洋性	maritime
海洋性氣候	maritime climate
海洋性貧血	thalassemia
海洋溫差發電	ocean thermal energy conversion (OTEC)
海洋雪	marine snow
海洋館	aquarium; oceanarium
海洛因	(loanword) heroin
海洛英	(loanword) heroin
海浪	sea wave
海涅	Heinrich Heine (1797-1856), German lyric poet
海涵	(polite expression) to be magnanimous enough to forgive or tolerate (one's errors or shortcomings)
海淀區	Haidian, a district of Beijing
海淀圖書城	Haidian Book City, Beijing bookstore
海淘	online purchase of goods dispatched from overseas
海港	seaport; harbor
海港區	Haigang, a district of Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
海溝	marine trench
海滄區	Haicang, a district of Xiamen City 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 Shi4], Fujian
海潮	tide
海濱	shore; seaside
海灘	beach
海灣	(Persian) Gulf
海灣國家	nations of the Persian Gulf; Gulf states
海灣戰爭	(Persian) Gulf War
海爾	Haier (PRC household appliance brand); Hale (name)
海爾德蘭	Gelderland, province of the Netherlands
海牙	The Hague (seat of government of the Netherlands)
海牛	manatee
海狗	fur seal
海狸	beaver
海狸鼠	(zoology) coypu; nutria
海獅	sea lion
海獺	sea otter
海王	Poseidon, Greek god of the sea; Neptune, Roman god of the sea
海王星	Neptune (planet)
海珠區	Haizhu, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
海瑞	Hai Rui (1514-1587), Ming politician, famous for honesty and integrity
海瑞罷官	Hai Rui dismissed from office, 1960 historical play by historian Wu Han 吳晗|吴晗
海瓜子	Tellina iridescens (a bivalve mollusk); any similar small clam
海產	marine; produced in sea
海疆	coastal border region
海登	Hayden or Haydn (name)
海百合	sea lily; crinoid
海皇羹	Cantonese seafood soup
海盜	pirate
海盜行為	piracy
海監船	naval surveillance vessel; maritime patrol boat
海相	marine facies (geology)
海相沉積物	oceanic sediment (geology)
海砂屋	house built with cheap, unreliable concrete which contains a high quantity of sea sand
海碗	very large bowl
海神	Emperor of the Sea; Neptune
海禁	prohibition on entering or leaving by sea
海空軍	navy and air force
海空軍基地	naval and air military base
海米	dried shrimps
海納百川	all rivers run into the sea
海綿	(zoology) sea sponge; (esp.) dried sea sponge
海綿寶寶	SpongeBob SquarePants (US animated TV series, 1999–)
海綿狀	spongy
海綿蛋糕	sponge cake
海綿體	erectile tissue (genital); corpus cavernosum
海腸	penis fish; fat innkeeper worm (Urechis unicinctus)
海腸子	(coll.) marine worm resembling intestines such as the spoon worm (echiuroid) or the peanut worm (Sipunculus nudus)
海膽	(zoology) sea urchin
海興縣	Haixing, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
海航	Hainan Airlines
海船	seagoing ship
海芋	giant taro (Alocasia macrorrhizos); common calla
海苔	nori
海草	seagrass
海葬	burial at sea (usu. performed by scattering cremains from a ship)
海葵	sea anemone
海藻	seaweed; marine alga; kelp
海虹	mussel
海蛞蝓	sea slug
海蜇	Rhopilema esculenta, an edible jellyfish
海蝕	coastal erosion; marine abrasion
海螵蛸	cuttlebone (used in TCM)
海螺	sea snail; whelk; conch
海蠣	oyster
海蠣子	oyster
海西蒙古族藏族自治州	Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
海角	cape; promontory
海試	sea trial (of a vessel)
海誓山盟	to pledge undying love (idiom); oath of eternal love
海警	coast guard
海警局	China Coast Guard
海豐縣	Haifeng, a county in Shanwei City 汕尾市[Shan4 wei3 Shi4], Guangdong
海豚	dolphin
海豚座	Delphinus (constellation)
海豚音	(singing) (coll.) whistle note
海豚館	dolphinarium
海象	walrus
海豹	(zoology) seal
海豹科	Phocidae, family within Carnivora including seal
海豹突擊隊	(US Navy) SEAL commando unit
海賊	pirate
海賊版	(ACG) pirated version; unauthorized copy
海賊王	One Piece (manga and anime)
海軍	navy
海軍上校	captain (= UK and US Navy equivalent)
海軍中校	commander (= UK and US Navy equivalent)
海軍大校	commodore (= US Navy equivalent)
海軍少校	lieutenant commander
海軍藍	navy blue
海軍陸戰隊	marine corps; marines
海迪	Heidi
海運	shipping by sea
海運費	shipping; sea transport
海選	(in elections for village committees in the PRC since the 1990s) unrestricted nomination, a type of election where 1. everyone in the community is eligible to nominate somebody 2. voting is done by writing the name of one's nominee on the ballot, and 3. one's nominee can be anyone in the community (Nominees who receive the highest number of votes may be thereby elected or, more often, presented as the candidates in a further round of voting.)
海邊	coast; seaside; seashore; beach
海部俊樹	KAIFU Toshiki (1931-), Japanese politician, prime minister 1989-1991
海里	nautical mile
海量	(courteous) magnanimity; great capacity for alcohol
海釣	sea angling
海錯	seafood delicacy
海門區	Haimen, a district of Nantong City 南通市[Nan2 tong1 Shi4], Jiangsu
海闊天空	wide sea and sky (idiom); boundless open vistas; the whole wide world
海關	customs (i.e. border crossing inspection)
海關總署	General Administration of Customs (GAC)
海關部門	customs section
海防	Haiphong, a major port city in northern Vietnam
海陵區	Hailing, a district of Taizhou City 泰州市[Tai4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
海陸	sea and land
海陸煲	Sea and Land Casserole (Zhejiang dish of chicken and clams simmered in herbal broth)
海陸空	sea land air (transport, or military operations)
海陸軍	navy and army; military force
海陽市	Haiyang, a county-level city in Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
海隅	coastal area
海難	perils of the sea
海青天	popular nickname of Hai Rui 海瑞[Hai3 Rui4] (1514-1587), Ming politician, famous for honesty and integrity
海面	the surface of the sea; ocean surface
海鞘	Ascidiacea; sea squirt
海頓	Haydn (name)
海風	sea breeze
海馬	(zoology) sea horse
海馬迴	(Tw) (anatomy) hippocampus
海馬體	(anatomy) hippocampus
海魂衫	Breton shirt; sailor's striped shirt
海魚	saltwater fish
海鮮	seafood
海鮮醬	hoisin sauce (barbecue sauce); seafood sauce
海鯉	sea bream
海鱸	sea bass
海鳥	seabird
海鷗	gull; seagull
海鷲	sea eagle
海鸕鶿	(bird species of China) pelagic cormorant (Urile pelagicus)
海鹽	sea salt
海鹽縣	Haiyan, a county in Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
海龜	turtle; Internet slang for 海歸|海归[hai3 gui1]
浸	to immerse; to soak; to steep
浸信會	Baptists
浸入	to soak; to dip
浸劑	infusion (pharm.)
浸染	to be contaminated; to be gradually influenced
浸水	to immerse in water; to drench; to inundate; irrigation water
浸沉	to soak; to steep
浸沒	to immerse; to swamp
浸泡	to steep; to soak; to immerse
浸洗	to immerse; to rinse
浸淫	(literary) (of a liquid or vapor etc) to permeate; to saturate; to suffuse
浸漬	to soak; to macerate
浸潤	to permeate; to percolate; fig. to saturate (with emotion)
浸濕	to soak; to saturate
浸禮教	Baptist denomination
浸禮會	Baptists
浸種	to soak seeds (in water to hasten germination, or in a chemical solution to prevent damage from insects etc)
浸豬籠	to drown sb in a wicker basket, a form of 沉潭[chen2 tan2]
浸透	to soak; to saturate; to drench; to permeate
浹	soaked; to wet; to drench
浼	to ask a favor of
浽溦	drizzle; fine rain
涂	surname Tu
涂山	Mt Tu in Zhejiang
涂爾幹	Durkheim (1858-1917), French sociologist
涄	(literary) runny; watery; fluid
涅	(literary) alunite (formerly used as a black dye)
涅槃	(Buddhism) (loanword from Sanskrit) to achieve nirvana (extinction of desire and pain); to die (abbr. for 涅槃那[nie4 pan2 na4])
涅槃經	(Buddhism) the Nirvana Sutra
涅瓦	the Nyeva or Neva river (through St Petersburg)
涅瓦河	Nyeva or Neva River (through St Petersburg)
涅白	opaque white
涅石	alumen; alunite (TCM)
涇	Jing River
涇川縣	Jingchuan, a county in Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
涇渭分明	as rivers Jing and Wei separate clearly (idiom)
涇源縣	Jingyuan, a county in Guyuan City 固原市[Gu4 yuan2 Shi4], Ningxia
涇縣	Jing County or Jingxian, a county in Xuancheng City 宣城市[Xuan1 cheng2 Shi4], Anhui
涇陽縣	Jingyang, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
消	to diminish; to subside; to consume; to reduce
消亡	to die out; to wither away
消保官	consumer protection officer (Tw)
消停	to calm down; to stop; to pause
消元	elimination (math); to eliminate one variable from equations
消光	(optics) extinction
消化	to digest (food)
消化不良	indigestion
消化液	digestive fluid
消化管	digestive tube; gut
消化系統	digestive system; gastrointestinal tract
消化腺	digestive glands
消化道	digestive tract
消化酒	digestif
消化酶	digestive enzyme
消去	to eliminate
消受	to bear
消基會	Consumers' Foundation, Chinese Taipei (CFCT) (abbr. for 中華民國消費者文教基金會|中华民国消费者文教基金会)
消夏	to spend the summer; to take a summer vacation
消夜	nighttime snack; late-night supper
消失	to disappear; to fade away
消弭	(literary) to eliminate; to put an end to (sth undesirable)
消息	(piece of) news; information; message
消息來源	web feed; news feed; syndicated feed
消息隊列	message queue (computing)
消息靈通	to be well-informed
消息靈通人士	well-informed source; person with inside information
消愁解悶	lit. to eliminate worry and dispel melancholy (idiom); diversion from boredom
消損	wear and tear; to wear away over time
消散	to dissipate
消暑	to spend a summer holiday; to beat the summer heat
消極	negative; passive; inactive
消極性	passive; passivity; negative
消歧義	to remove ambiguity; disambiguation (in Wikipedia)
消殺	to sterilize; to disinfect
消毒	to disinfect; to sterilize
消毒劑	disinfectant
消毒洗手液	hand sanitizer
消氣	to cool one's temper
消沉	to sink into despondency
消泯	to eliminate; to obliterate
消消停停	intermittently
消渴	condition characterized by thirst, hunger, frequent urination and weight loss, identified in TCM with type 2 diabetes
消滅	to put an end to; to annihilate; to cause to perish
消火栓	fire hydrant
消災	to avoid calamities
消災避邪	to avoid calamities and evil spirits
消炎	to reduce fever; antipyretic; to decrease inflammation
消炎片	antipyretic tablet (to reduce fever), such as sulfanilamide
消炎藥	anti-inflammatory medicine
消瘦	to waste away; to become thin
消石灰	calcium hydroxide Ca(OH)2; slaked lime
消磁	to demagnetize; to become demagnetized
消磨	to wear down; to sap; to whittle away
消磨時間	to kill time
消耗	to consume; to use up; to deplete; to expend
消耗品	consumable goods; expendable item
消耗戰	war of attrition
消耗量	rate of consumption
消聲	sound dissipation; noise reduction
消聲器	noise reduction equipment
消腫	to reduce swelling; detumescence
消蝕	to corrode; to erode; to wear away (lit. and fig.)
消融	to melt (e.g. an icecap)
消解	to eliminate; to dispel; resolution
消費	to consume (goods and services, resources etc)
消費價格指數	consumer price index CPI
消費券	voucher; coupon
消費品	consumer goods
消費稅	consumption tax; sales tax
消費級	consumer-grade; consumer-level
消費群	consumer group
消費者	consumer
消費者保護	(law) consumer protection
消費資料	consumption data; consumer goods
消費金融	consumer finance
消退	to wane; to vanish gradually
消逝	to fade away
消遣	to while the time away; amusement; pastime
消釋	to dispel (doubts); to clear up (misunderstanding)
消金	consumer finance (abbr. for 消費金融|消费金融[xiao1 fei4 jin1 rong2])
消長	to ebb and rise; to decrease and then grow
消閒	to spend one's leisure time; to idle away the time
消防	firefighting; fire control
消防員	firefighter; fireman
消防局	fire department
消防栓	fire hydrant
消防署	fire station
消防車	fire engine; fire truck
消防通道	fire exit; (firefighting) fire lane
消防隊	fire department; fire brigade
消防隊員	fireman
消除	to eliminate; to remove
消除對婦女一切形式歧視公約	Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women
消除歧義	to disambiguate
消除鋸齒	anti-alias (computer graphics)
消隱	to hide; to retreat into privacy
消音	to silence
消音器	silencer
消食	to aid digestion
消魂	overwhelmed (with joy, sorrow etc); to feel transported
涉	(literary) to wade across a body of water; (bound form) to experience
涉世	to see the world; to go out into society; to gain experience
涉世未深	unpracticed; inexperienced; naive
涉事	to be involved in the matter (Example: 涉事三人[she4 shi4 san1 ren2], the three people involved)
涉及	to involve; to relate to; to concern; to touch upon
涉外	concerning foreigners or foreign affairs
涉嫌	to be a suspect (in a crime); to be suspected of
涉嫌人	(criminal) suspect
涉密	to involve or deal with classified information
涉想	to imagine; to consider
涉案	(of a perpetrator, victim, weapon, sum of money etc) to be involved in the case
涉歷	to experience
涉水靴	wading boots; high-topped waterproof boots
涉水鳥	a wading bird
涉渡	to ford (a stream); to wade across
涉獵	to skim (through a book); to read cursorily; to dip into
涉眾	the stakeholders; a stakeholder
涉筆	to start writing or painting (lit. "wet the brush")
涉縣	She County or Shexian, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
涉覽	to browse; to glance through; to read
涉訟	to be involved in a lawsuit
涉詐	to be linked to fraudulent activity
涉賄	to be suspected of bribery
涉足	to set foot in; to step into; to become involved for the first time
涉過	to ford (a stream, river etc)
涉險	to take risks; involved in adventure
涉黑	gang-related
涉黑案	gang-related case; criminal case
涊	muddy water
涌	(used in place names)
涌泉相報	to repay a kindness many times over (from the saying 滴水之恩，當湧泉相報|滴水之恩，当涌泉相报[di1 shui3 zhi1 en1 , dang1 yong3 quan2 xiang1 bao4])
涎	saliva
涎水	saliva
涎沫	spittle
涐	old name for the Dadu River 大渡河[Da4 du4 He2] in Sichuan
涑	name of a river
涒	planet Jupiter; vomit
涓	brook; to select
涓吉	to choose an auspicious day
涓埃	tiny stream of dust; tiny things; negligible
涓埃之力	negligible force (idiom); tiny force
涓涓	a trickle; tiny stream; sluggish
涓滴	tiny stream; trickle; drops
涓滴歸公	every drop returns to the public good (idiom); not one penny is misused
涔	overflow; rainwater; tearful
涕	tears; nasal mucus
涕唾	nasal mucus and spittle
涕泗橫流	tears and mucus flowing profusely; sniveling; in a tragic state
涕泗滂沱	a flood of tears and mucus; broken-hearted and weeping bitterly
涕泗縱橫	tears and mucus flowing profusely; sniveling; in a tragic state
涕泣	to weep; to shed tears
涕淚交加	(idiom) weeping uncontrollably
涕淚交流	tears and mucus flowing profusely (idiom); weeping tragically
涕零	to shed tears; to weep
涖	river in Hebei
涘	river bank
涪	(name of a river)
涪城區	Fucheng, a district of Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
涪陵區	Fuling, a district in central Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
涫	(classical) to boil
涬	watery expanse
涮	to rinse; to swish (in water); to trick; to fool sb
涮涮鍋	shabu-shabu (Japanese-style hot pot)
涮羊肉	instant-boiled mutton; thinly sliced mutton cooked briefly in a hot pot
涮鍋子	to eat hot pot; to cook thinly sliced meat briefly in boiling broth at the table
涯	border; horizon; shore
液	(bound form) a liquid; also pr. [yi4]
液冷	to liquid-cool
液力	hydraulic power; (attributive) hydraulic
液化	to liquefy
液化氣	liquid gas; bottled gas (fuel)
液化石油氣	liquefied petroleum gas
液壓	hydraulic pressure
液壓傳動	hydraulic drive; hydraulic transmission
液壓千斤頂	hydraulic jack
液態	liquid (state)
液態奶	general term for milk packaged for the consumer, including long-life (UHT) milk, pasteurized milk and reconstituted milk
液態水	liquid water (as opposed to steam or ice)
液晶	liquid crystal
液晶屏	liquid crystal screen
液晶顯示	LCD; liquid crystal display
液晶顯示器	liquid crystal display
液氧	liquid oxygen
液氨	liquid ammonia
液氮	liquid nitrogen
液泡	(biology) vacuole
液流	stream; flow of liquid
液滴	drop of liquid; droplet
液胞	(Tw) vacuole
液面	surface (of a body of liquid)
液體	liquid
涴	to soil
涵	to contain; to include; culvert
涵意	content; meaning; connotation
涵括	to encompass; to cover
涵攝	to assimilate; to subsume
涵江區	Hanjiang, a district of Putian City 莆田市[Pu2 tian2 Shi4], Fujian
涵洞	culvert
涵淡	waves
涵管	culvert pipe
涵義	content; meaning; connotation
涵蓋	to cover; to comprise; to include
涵養	to cultivate (personal qualities)
涷	rainstorm
涸	to dry; to dry up
涸轍之鮒	lit. a fish in a dried-out rut (idiom); fig. a person in dire straits
涼	the five Liang of the Sixteen Kingdoms, namely: Former Liang 前涼|前凉 (314-376), Later Liang 後涼|后凉 (386-403), Northern Liang 北涼|北凉 (398-439), Southern Liang 南涼|南凉[Nan2 Liang2] (397-414), Western Liang 西涼|西凉 (400-421)
涼了半截	felt a chill (in one's heart); (one's heart) sank
涼亭	pavilion
涼城縣	Liangcheng, a county in Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
涼山彝族自治州	Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture, in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
涼州區	Liangzhou, a district of Wuwei City 武威市[Wu3 wei1 Shi4], Gansu
涼快	pleasantly cool (weather etc); to cool oneself; to cool off
涼意	a slight chill
涼拌	to dress cold food with sauce
涼拌麵	cold noodles in sauce
涼棚	mat awning; arbor
涼水	cool water; unboiled water
涼涼	slightly cold; cool; (neologism) (slang) to be done for
涼爽	cool and refreshing
涼白開	cold boiled water
涼皮	liangpi (noodle-like dish)
涼粉	liangfen (Chinese dish); grass jelly (Chinese dish)
涼茶	Chinese herb tea
涼菜	cold dish
涼蓆	summer sleeping mat (e.g. of woven split bamboo)
涼鞋	sandal
涼麵	cold noodles
涿	used in place names
涿州市	Zhuozhou, a county-level city in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
涿鹿縣	Zhuolu, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
淀	(bound form) shallow lake (usu. in place names)
淂	(river)
淄	black; name of a river
淄博市	Zibo, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
淄川區	Zichuan, a district of Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
淄蠹	to be worn out
淅	(onom.) sound of rain, sleet etc
淅川縣	Xichuan, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
淅瀝	(onom.) patter of rain
淆	confused and disorderly; mixed; Taiwan pr. [yao2]
淆亂	to confuse; to befuddle
淆雜	to mix up; to muddle
淇	name of a river
淇淋	cream (loanword)
淇濱區	Qibin, a district of Hebi City 鶴壁市|鹤壁市[He4 bi4 Shi4], Henan
淇縣	Qi County or Qixian, a county in Hebi City 鶴壁市|鹤壁市[He4 bi4 Shi4], Henan
淊	to flood
淋	to filter; to strain; to drain
淋巴	(physiology) (loanword) lymph
淋巴液	lymph
淋巴瘤	lymphoma
淋巴癌	lymphoma (lay term for 淋巴瘤[lin2 ba1 liu2])
淋巴管	lymphatic vessel
淋巴系統	lymphatic system
淋巴細胞	lymphocyte
淋巴結	lymph node; lymph gland
淋巴腺	lymph node; lymph gland
淋浴	to take a shower; shower
淋溶土	argosol (soil taxonomy)
淋溶層	alluvium (soil deposited by rivers)
淋漓	dripping wet; pouring; saturated
淋漓盡致	lit. extreme saturation (idiom); fig. vividly and thoroughly
淋濕	to get soaked
淋球菌	gonococcus; Neisseria gonorrhoeae, the pathogen causing gonorrhea
淋病	gonorrhea; Taiwan pr. [lin2 bing4]
淋雨	to get wet in the rain
淌	to drip; to trickle; to shed (tears)
淌下	to let drip; to trickle down; to shed (tears)
淌口水	to let saliva dribble from the mouth; to slobber
淌淚	to shed a tear
淌眼淚	to shed tears
淏	(literary) (of water) limpid
淑	(bound form) (of women) gentle; kind; lovely; admirable
淑世	to make the world a better place
淑人君子	virtuous gentleman (idiom)
淑女	wise and virtuous woman; lady
淑女車	ladies bicycle
淑靜	gentle; tender
淒	intense cold; frigid; dismal
淒切	mournful
淒厲	mournful (sound)
淒婉	melancholy; moving and sad; sweet and piteous
淒寒	cold and desolate
淒惋	doleful; piteous; also written 淒婉|凄婉[qi1 wan3]
淒惶	distressed and terrified; distraught (literary)
淒暗	dismal; somber
淒涼	desolate (place)
淒淒	cold and dismal
淒清	somber; cheerless
淒美	poignant; sad and beautiful
淒迷	dreary and fuzzy (sight)
淒風苦雨	lit. bleak wind and icy rain (idiom)
淒黯	dismal; somber; also written 淒暗|凄暗[qi1 an4]
淓	name of a river
淖	surname Nao
淘	to wash (rice, sand etc in water to remove impurities)
淘客	talk (loanword); chatline of PRC Internet company Taobao, taokshop.com
淘寶	Taobao, a Chinese online shopping website (abbr. for 淘寶網|淘宝网[Tao2 bao3 Wang3])
淘寶網	Taobao Marketplace, a Chinese website for online shopping
淘析	to strain; to wash and filter
淘氣	naughty; mischievous
淘汰	to wash out; (fig.) to cull; to weed out
淘汰賽	a knockout competition
淘河	pelican
淘洗	to wash
淘神	troublesome; bothersome
淘籮	basket (for washing rice)
淘米	to rinse rice
淘選	to decant; to strain off
淘金	to pan for gold
淘金潮	gold rush
淘金熱	gold rush
淘金者	gold panner; prospector for gold
淙	noise of water
淚	(bound form) tears; teardrops
淚人	person who is crying their eyes out, whose face is wet with tears
淚光	glistening teardrops
淚失禁	(slang) to cry uncontrollably when emotionally overwhelmed
淚奔	(slang) to get emotional
淚如雨下	tears falling like rain (idiom)
淚水	teardrop; tears
淚水漣漣	in floods of tears (idiom)
淚汪汪	tearful; brimming with tears
淚流滿面	cheeks streaming with tears (idiom)
淚液	tears; teardrops
淚滴	teardrop
淚珠	teardrop; tear
淚痕	tear stains
淚痣	mole located just beneath the eye or along the lower eyelid
淚目	tearful eyes; to be moved to tears
淚眼	tearful eyes
淚眼婆娑	tearful (idiom)
淚管	tear duct
淚腺	Lacrimal gland
淚花	tears in the eyes
淚點	(anatomy) lacrimal punctum; (literary) tears
淚點低	(neologism) easily moved to tears
淜	roar of dashing waves
淝	name of a river
淞	name of a river in Jiangsu Province
淟	turbid; muddy
淠	luxuriant (of water plants)
淡	insipid; diluted; weak
淡光	shimmer
淡入	to fade in (cinema)
淡出	to fade out (cinema); to withdraw from (politics, acting etc)
淡化	to water down; to play down; to trivialize
淡啤	light beer
淡喉鷯鶥	(bird species of China) pale-throated wren-babbler (Spelaeornis kinneari)
淡妝	light makeup
淡妝濃抹	in light or heavy makeup (idiom)
淡季	off season; slow business season
淡定	calm and collected; unperturbed
淡尾鶲鶯	(bird species of China) Alström's warbler (Phylloscopus soror)
淡巴菰	tobacco (loanword) (old)
淡忘	to gradually forget as time passes; to have (sth) fade from one's memory
淡水	Tamsui or Danshui, district of New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
淡水區	Tamsui or Danshui District, New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
淡水湖	freshwater lake
淡水魚	freshwater fish
淡泊	living a simple life
淡泊名利	not caring about fame and fortune (idiom)
淡泊明志	living a simple life as one's ideal (idiom)
淡淡	faint; dim; dull
淡漠	apathetic; indifferent; unsympathetic
淡灰眉岩鵐	(bird species of China) rock bunting (Emberiza cia)
淡然	tranquil and calm; indifferent
淡眉柳鶯	(bird species of China) Hume's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus humei)
淡紫鳾	(bird species of China) yellow-billed nuthatch (Sitta solangiae)
淡綠鵙鶥	(bird species of China) green shrike-babbler (Pteruthius xanthochlorus)
淡腳樹鶯	(bird species of China) pale-footed bush warbler (Hemitesia pallidipes)
淡腹點翅朱雀	(bird species of China) Sharpe's rosefinch (Carpodacus verreauxii)
淡色崖沙燕	(bird species of China) pale martin (Riparia diluta)
淡薄	thin; light; flagging
淡藍色	light blue
淡雅	simple and elegant
淡頦仙鶲	(bird species of China) pale-chinned flycatcher (Cyornis poliogenys)
淡黃	light yellow
淡黃腰柳鶯	(bird species of China) lemon-rumped warbler (Phylloscopus chloronotus)
淢	moat; swift current
淤	silt; river sludge; to silt up
淤傷	bruising
淤塞	choked with silt; silted up
淤泥	silt; sludge; ooze
淤淺	to silt up
淤滯	silted up; obstructed by silt
淤灌	to warp (fertilize land by flooding)
淤積	to silt up; silt; sediment
淤血斑	bruise; patch of bruising
淤青	bruise; contusion
淥	clear (water); strain liquids
淥口區	Lukou, a district of Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
淦	(archaic) water leaking into a boat
淨	clean; completely; only
淨值	net value; net worth
淨利	net profit
淨利潤	net profit
淨利率	net profit margin; net margin
淨化	to purify
淨含量	net weight
淨土	(Buddhism) Pure Land, usually refers to Amitabha Buddha's Western Pure Land of Ultimate Bliss (Sukhavati in Sanskrit)
淨土宗	Pure Land Buddhism
淨手	to wash one's hands; (fig.) to go to the toilet
淨收入	net income; net profit
淨水	purified water; to purify water
淨水器	water purifier
淨現值	net present value (NPV)
淨盡	to eliminate; to purge
淨重	net weight
淨零	net zero (net-zero carbon emissions)
淨高	(architecture) clear height; vertical clearance (from the floor to the lowest hanging object, such as a beam, pipe or ceiling)
淪	to sink (into ruin, oblivion); to be reduced to
淪亡	(of a country) to perish; to be annexed
淪喪	to be lost; to be ruined; to perish
淪沒	to sink; to drown
淪浹	to be deeply affected; moved to the core
淪滅	to perish; extinction
淪為	to sink down to; to be reduced to (sth inferior)
淪肌浹髓	lit. penetrate to the marrow (idiom); deeply affected
淪落	to degenerate; impoverished; to fall (into poverty)
淪陷	to fall into enemy hands; to be occupied; to degenerate
淪陷區	enemy-held territory
淫	excess; excessive; wanton
淫亂	promiscuous
淫威	abuse of authority; tyrannical abuse
淫娃	dissolute girl; slut
淫婦	loose woman; prostitute; Jezebel
淫媒	procurer; pimp
淫媒罪	(law) procuring (offense)
淫徑	(old) see 邪路[xie2 lu4]
淫念	lust
淫慾	lust
淫書	obscene book; pornography
淫棍	womanizer; lecher
淫樂	vice; degenerate pleasures
淫水	arousal fluid; vaginal lubrication
淫猥	obscene; indecent
淫畫	obscene picture
淫穢	obscene; indecent; bawdy
淫穴	pussy; cunt; twat
淫羊藿	Epimedium, genus of herbaceous flowering plant, cultivated in the Far East as aphrodisiac
淫蕩	loose in morals; lascivious; licentious
淫蟲	sex maniac
淫行	wanton or lascivious behavior; adulterous behavior
淫褻	obscene
淫詞穢語	(idiom) obscene words; dirty talk
淫詞褻語	dirty words; dirty talk
淫賤	morally loose, lewd and low, lascivious and mean; wanton
淫趴	(slang) sex party
淫辱	fornication and insults; to rape and insult
淫逸	to indulge in; dissipation; debauchery
淫雨	excessive rain
淫靡	profligate; extravagantly showy; (of music) lascivious
淫風	lascivious; wanton
淫鬼	lecherous devil
淫魔	lewd demon; lecher; pervert
淬	dip into water; to temper
淬火	to quench; to temper; to harden by quenching
淬煉	(fig.) to temper; to forge; to toughen (through hardship or repeated trials)
淮	name of a river
淮上區	Huaishang, a district of Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
淮北市	Huaibei, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
淮南	region south of the Huai River and north of the Yangtze River, esp. central Anhui Province
淮南子	miscellany of writing from the Western Han (aka Former Han)
淮南市	Huainan, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
淮安區	Huai'an, a district of Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
淮安市	Huai'an, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
淮山	Chinese yam (Dioscorea polystachya), aka nagaimo
淮河	Huai River, main river of east China, between the Yellow River 黃河|黄河[Huang2 He2] and the Changjiang 長江|长江[Chang2 Jiang1]
淮海	Huaihai, economic hub around Xuzhou 徐州[Xu2 zhou1], including parts of Jiangsu, Shandong, Henan and Anhui provinces
淮海地區	Huaihai, economic hub around Xuzhou 徐州[Xu2 zhou1], including parts of Jiangsu, Shandong, Henan and Anhui provinces
淮海戰役	Huaihai Campaign (Nov 1948-Jan 1949), one of the three major campaigns by the People's Liberation Army near the end of the Chinese Civil War, considered the determining battle of the war
淮濱縣	Huaibin, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
淮陰區	Huaiyin, a district of Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
淮陽區	Huaiyang, a district of Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
淯	name of river; old name of Baihe 白河 in Henan; same as 育水
淯水	name of river; old name of Baihe 白河 in Henan; same as 育水
淰	calm water
深	(lit. and fig.) deep
深不可測	deep and unmeasurable (idiom); unfathomable depths; incomprehensible
深不見底	so deep one cannot see to the bottom; limitless
深井	Sham Tseng (area in Hong Kong)
深仇大恨	(idiom) bitter hatred
深信	to believe firmly
深信不疑	to believe firmly without any doubt (idiom)
深偽	(technology) deepfake
深入	to penetrate deeply; thorough
深入人心	to enter deeply into people's hearts
深入淺出	to explain a complicated subject matter in simple terms (idiom)
深切	deeply felt; heartfelt; sincere
深刻	profound; deep; deep-going
深化	to deepen; to intensify
深厚	deep; profound
深受	to receive in no small measure
深吻	French kissing
深呼吸	to take a deep breath
深喉	deep throating (sex act); a deep throat (anonymous informant)
深圳交易所	Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE)
深圳市	Shenzhen, sub-provincial city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
深圳河	Shenzhen or Shamchun river Guangdong, the border between Hong Kong new territories and PRC
深圳證券交易所	Shenzhen Stock Exchange, abbr. to 深交所[Shen1 Jiao1 suo3]
深夜	very late at night
深奧	profound; abstruse; recondite
深孚眾望	to enjoy the confidence of the people; to be very popular
深密	dense; thick
深層	deep layer; deep; deep-seated; underlying
深層政府	deep state
深層次	deep level; deep-seated; in-depth
深層清潔	deep cleansing
深山	deep in the mountains
深山老林	(idiom) backwoods; wilderness
深州市	Shenzhou, a county-level city in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
深度	depth; (of a speech etc) profundity; advanced stage of development
深度學習	deep learning (artificial intelligence)
深度尺	depth indicator or gauge
深廣	deep and wide; vast; profound (influence etc)
深得民心	to win the hearts of the people; to be popular among the masses
深思	to ponder; to consider
深思熟慮	mature reflection; after careful deliberations
深情	deep emotion; deep feeling; deep love; affectionate; loving
深情厚意	profound love, generous friendship (idiom)
深情厚誼	deep friendship
深情款款	loving; caring; adoring
深惡痛絕	to detest bitterly (idiom); implacable hatred; to abhor
深愛	to love dearly
深感	to feel deeply
深成岩	plutonic rock; abyssal rock
深挖	to dredge
深摯	heartfelt and genuine
深明大義	to have a high notion of one's duty; to be highly principled
深更半夜	in the dead of night (idiom)
深棕	dark brown
深棕色	dark brown
深櫃	(slang) (of an LGBT person etc) closeted
深水埗	Sham Shui Po district of Kowloon, Hong Kong
深水港	deepwater port
深水炸彈	depth charge
深沉	deep; profound; (of a person) reserved
深海	deep sea
深海圍網	purse-seine net (fishing)
深深	deep; profound
深淵	abyss
深淺	deep or shallow; depth (of the sea); limits of decorum
深港	Shenzhen and Hong Kong
深源地震	deep earthquake (with epicenter more than 300 km deep)
深潭	deep natural pond; deep pit; abyss
深澤縣	Shenze, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
深灰色	dark gray
深焙	dark roast (coffee); Taiwan pr. [shen1pei4]
深知	to know well; to be fully aware of
深秋	late autumn
深究	to perform an in-depth investigation
深空	deep space (outer space)
深紅色	deep red; crimson; scarlet
深綠	dark green
深縣	Shen county in Hebei
深耕	deep plowing; thorough penetration
深耕細作	deep plowing and careful cultivation
深色	dark; dark colored
深藍	Deep Blue, chess-playing computer, first to defeat reigning world champion, developed by IBM (1985-1997)
深藏	to be deeply hidden; to lie deep (in some place)
深藏若虛	to hide one's treasure away so that no-one knows about it (idiom); fig. modest about one's talents
深處	abyss; depths; deepest or most distant part
深談	to have an in depth conversation; to have intimate talks
深諳	to know (sth) very well; to be an expert in
深謀	forethought
深謀遠慮	lit. deep plans and distant thoughts; to plan far ahead (idiom)
深謀遠略	a well-thought out long-term strategy
深谷	deep valley; ravine
深蹲	squat (exercise)
深造	to pursue one's studies
深遠	far-reaching; profound and long-lasting
深邃	deep (valley or night); abstruse; hidden in depth
深重	very serious; grave; profound
深鎖	locked up; closed off; (of one's brow) furrowed; frowning
深長	profound (meaning, implications etc)
深閉固拒	deep, closed and refusing (idiom); obstinate; stubborn and perverse
深閨	lady's private room or bedroom; boudoir
深陷	to be deeply in (trouble, debt etc); deep set (eyes)
淳	genuine; pure; honest
淳于	two-character surname Chunyu
淳化縣	Chunhua, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
淳厚	pure and honest; simple and kind
淳安縣	Chun'an, a county in Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
淳樸	simple and honest; unsophisticated; guileless
淵	deep pool; deep; profound
淵博	erudite; profound; learned
淵壑	deep valley
淵富	rich and variegated
淵廣	broad and extensive (of knowledge etc)
淵慮	profound thoughts or ideas
淵沖	(literary) (of sb's mind or intelligence) deep; insightful
淵泉	deep springs
淵泓	vast and profound
淵海	(lit.) abyss and ocean; (fig.) vast and profound
淵深	profound (knowledge); erudite
淵淵	deep and still; sound of a drum
淵渟岳峙	(idiom) to have a serene yet formidable demeanor; to have a commanding presence
淵源	origin; source; relationship
淵玄	profundity; depth
淵藪	(lit.) gathering place of fish or other creatures
淵詣	deep and profound meaning
淵謀	profound or erudite plans
淵識	erudite and sophisticated
淵谷	deep valley
淵遠	deep; profound
淵默	profound silence
淶	brook; ripple
淶水縣	Laishui, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
淶源縣	Laiyuan, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
混	muddy; turbid (variant of 渾|浑[hun2])
混一	to amalgamate; to mix together as one
混世魔王	devil incarnate (idiom); fiend in human form
混亂	confused; chaotic; disorderly
混事	to work half-heartedly; to get by in a job with the minimum effort
混交	mixed (growth of wood)
混交林	mixed forest
混作	mixed cropping (i.e. growing two crops together)
混元	time immemorial; origin of the universe; the world
混充	to pass oneself off as sb; to palm sth off as
混入	to sneak into
混凝劑	coagulant
混凝土	concrete (building material)
混出名堂	to make it; to be somebody
混合	to mix; to blend; hybrid; composite
混合動力車	hybrid vehicle
混合型汽車	hybrid car
混合感染	mixed infection
混合所有制改革	mixed ownership reform (strategy aimed at enhancing the efficiency and competitiveness of state-owned enterprises)
混合模型	hybrid model
混合毒劑	tactical mixture of chemical agents
混合泳	medley (swimming)
混合物	mixture; composite
混合現實	(computing) mixed reality; MR
混合體	mixture; blend
混同	to mix up; to confuse one thing with another
混名	nickname
混和	mixture; amalgam
混唚	vulgar; foul-mouthed
混子	hoodlum; person unfit for society
混成詞	(linguistics) portmanteau
混戰	chaotic warfare; confused fighting; melee; to join in such fighting
混搭	to mix and match (of clothing etc)
混改	mixed ownership reform (abbr. for 混合所有制改革[hun4 he2 suo3 you3 zhi4 gai3 ge2])
混日子	to idle; to waste time
混水牆	plastered masonry wall
混沌	primal chaos (original state of the universe in Chinese mythology)
混沌學	chaos theory (math.)
混沌理論	(math.) chaos theory
混淆	to obscure; to confuse; to mix up
混淆是非	to confuse right and wrong (idiom)
混淆視聽	to obscure the facts (idiom); to mislead the public with prevarication and deliberate falsehoods
混淆黑白	to confuse black and white; to say that black is white
混混兒	ruffian; hoodlum
混濁	turbid; muddy; dirty
混為一談	to confuse one thing with another (idiom); to muddle
混熟	to get familiar with
混球	bastard; wretch; scoundrel
混矇	to deceive; to mislead
混種	hybrid; mixed-breed
混紡	mixed fabric; blended fabric
混編	mixed
混茫	dim; obscure
混號	nickname
混蛋	scoundrel; bastard; hoodlum
混血	(of animals) hybrid; (of people) mixed-blood; mixed-race
混血兒	person of mixed blood
混行	mixed use (e.g. pedestrians and vehicles)
混賬	shameful; absolutely disgraceful!
混跡	mixed in as part of a community; hiding one's identity
混進	to infiltrate; to sneak into
混醬	mixed sauce; (Mexican cuisine) mole
混雜	to mix; to mingle
混雜物	adulteration; impurities
混音	(audio) mixing
混飯	to work for a living
淹	to flood; to submerge; to drown
淹博	widely read; erudite
淹死	to drown
淹水	to be flooded
淹沒	to submerge; to drown; to flood
淹滅	to submerge; to flood; to bury
淹灌	basin irrigation (e.g. paddy fields)
淹留	to stay for a long period
淹蓋	to submerge; to flood; to drown out
淹頭搭腦	listless
淺	shallow; light (color)
淺嘗	to merely have a sip or a bite (of one's food or drink)
淺嘗輒止	(lit.) to stop after taking just a sip (idiom); (fig.) to gain only a superficial knowledge of sth and then stop
淺學	shallow study; superficial; scant knowledge
淺層文字	shallow orthography (governed by simple rules)
淺希近求	to aim low; to aim to get by; without lofty ambition
淺易	easy; simple; suitable for beginners
淺析	primary, elementary or coarse analysis
淺水	shallow water
淺浮雕	bas-relief
淺海	shallow sea; sea less than 200 meters deep
淺淡	light (color); pale; vague (feeling)
淺深	depth (archaic)
淺源地震	shallow earthquake (with epicenter less than 70 km deep)
淺灘	shallows; shoal; sandbar
淺焙	light roast (coffee); Taiwan pr. [qian3pei4]
淺白	simple; easy to understand
淺短	narrow and shallow (knowledge or skill); superficial
淺礁	shallow reef; shoal
淺耕	to scratch; shallow plowing
淺色	light color
淺草	Asakusa (district of Tokyo known for its traditional atmosphere and Sensō-ji, a 7th-century Buddhist temple)
淺薄	superficial
淺見	shallow opinion; humble opinion
淺說	simple introduction; primer
淺近	simple
淺陋	shallow and crude; meager (knowledge or skill)
淺露	blunt; direct (i.e. not tactful)
淺顯	(of written or spoken material) easy to understand; accessible
淺顯易懂	(idiom) easy to understand
淺鮮	meager; slight
淺黃色	buff; pale yellow
淺黑	dark; gray; (of skin) lightly pigmented
添	to add; to increase; to replenish
添丁	to add a son to the family
添亂	(coll.) to cause trouble for sb; to inconvenience
添加	to add; to increase
添加劑	additive; food additive
添加物	additive
添堵	to make people feel even more stressed or annoyed (coll.)
添油加醋	(lit.) to add oil and vinegar (idiom)
添磚加瓦	lit. contribute bricks and tiles for a building (idiom)
添福添壽	to increase luck and longevity
添置	to buy; to acquire; to add to one's possessions
添補	to fill (up); to replenish
添辦	to acquire
添麻煩	to cause trouble for sb; to inconvenience
淼	a flood; infinity
清	Qing (Wade-Giles: Ch'ing) dynasty of China (1644–1911); surname Qing
清一色	(mahjong) flush; a complete hand where all tiles are of the same suit
清亮	(of sound) clear and resonant; bright; (of eyes) bright
清人	Qing dynasty person
清代	Qing dynasty (1644-1911)
清代通史	General History of the Qing dynasty, compiled under Xiao Yishan 蕭一山|萧一山[Xiao1 Yi1 shan1]
清倉	to take an inventory of stock; to clear out one's stock
清倉大甩賣	clearance sale; fire sale
清倉查庫	to make an inventory of warehouses
清償	to repay a debt in full; to redeem; to clear
清兵	Qing troops; Manchu soldiers
清冊	detailed list; inventory
清剿	to suppress (insurgents); clean-up operation
清原滿族自治縣	Qingyuan Manchu Autonomous County, in Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
清史列傳	Biographic History of Qing Dynasty by a succession of authors, published 1928 and revised 1987, with biographies of 2,900 notable Qing commoner citizens, 80 scrolls
清史稿	Draft History of the Qing Dynasty, sometimes listed as number 25 or 26 of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Zhao Erxun 趙爾巽|赵尔巽[Zhao4 Er3 xun4] in 1927 during the Northern Warlords period, 536 scrolls
清史館	office set up in 1914 to compile official history of the Qing dynasty
清君側	to remove the treacherous ministers surrounding the monarch (historically used as a pretext for rebellion)
清唱	to sing opera arias without staging, costume or makeup
清單	list of items
清嗓	to clear one's throat; to hawk
清嗓子	to clear one's throat
清城區	Qingcheng, a district of Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
清場	to clear (a place); to evacuate
清太宗	posthumous title of Hong Taiji 皇太極|皇太极[Huang2 Tai4 ji2] (1592-1643), eighth son of Nurhaci 努爾哈赤|努尔哈赤[Nu3 er3 ha1 chi4], reigned 1626-1636 as Second Khan of Later Jin dynasty 後金|后金[Hou4 Jin1], then founded the Qing dynasty 大清[Da4 Qing1] and reigned 1636-1643 as Emperor
清太祖	posthumous title of Nurhaci 努爾哈赤|努尔哈赤[Nu3 er3 ha1 chi4] (1559-1626), founder and first Khan of the Manchu Later Jin dynasty 後金|后金[Hou4 Jin1] (from 1616)
清婉	clear and soft (voice)
清官	honest and upright official (traditional)
清官難斷家務事	even an honest and upright official will have difficulty resolving a family dispute (proverb)
清寒	poor; underprivileged; (of weather) crisp and clear
清實錄	Qing historical archive, currently 4484 scrolls
清屏	(computing) to clear (all items on the display screen)
清州	Cheongju, capital of North Chungcheong Province, South Korea 忠清北道[Zhong1 qing1 bei3 dao4]
清州市	Cheongju, capital of North Chungcheong Province, South Korea 忠清北道[Zhong1 qing1 bei3 dao4]
清幽	(of a location) quiet and secluded; beautiful and secluded
清廉	honest; uncorrupted
清廷	the Qing court (as government of China)
清徐縣	Qingxu, a county in Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
清心寡慾	(idiom) uninterested in self-indulgence; abstemious; ascetic
清恬	pure and quiet (of life); tranquil and comfortable
清拆	demolition (of buildings for new project)
清拆戶	demolition of homes; to destroy homes (for new building projects)
清掃	to tidy up; to mop up; a sweep (against crime)
清政府	Qing government (1644-1911)
清教徒	Puritan
清新	fresh and clean
清新區	Qingxin, a district of Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
清早	first thing in the morning; at daybreak
清明	Qingming or Pure Brightness, 5th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气[er4 shi2 si4 jie2 qi5] 5th-19th April
清明節	Qingming or Pure Brightness Festival or Tomb Sweeping Day, celebration for the dead (in early April)
清晨	early morning
清晰	clear; distinct
清晰度	definition; sharpness; clarity
清朗	clear and bright; unclouded; clear and sonorous (voice)
清朝	Qing dynasty (1644-1911)
清末	the final years of the Qing dynasty 清朝[Qing1 chao2]; late Qing
清末民初	late Qing and early Republican China
清查	to investigate thoroughly; to carefully inspect; to verify
清楚	clear; distinct; to understand thoroughly
清正	upright and honorable
清正廉明	upright and honest
清水	Shimizu (Japanese surname and place name)
清水寺	Kiyomizu temple in east Kyōto 京都, Japan
清水河縣	Qingshuihe, a county in Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
清水牆	unplastered masonry wall
清水縣	Qingshui, a county in Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
清江	Qingjiang river in Hubei
清江浦區	Qingjiangpu, a district of Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
清河區	Qinghe, a district of Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
清河縣	Qinghe, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
清河門區	Qinghemen, a district of Fuxin City 阜新市[Fu4 xin1 Shi4], Liaoning
清油	vegetable cooking oil
清泉	clear spring
清洗	to wash; to rinse; to clean
清津市	Chongjin, capital of North Hamgyeong province 咸鏡北道|咸镜北道[Xian2 jing4 bei3 dao4], North Korea
清流	clean flowing water
清流縣	Qingliu, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
清涼	cool; refreshing; (of clothing) skimpy
清涼油	soothing ointment; balm
清淡	light (of food, not greasy or strongly flavored); insipid
清淤	to dredge; to remove sludge
清淨	peaceful; quiet; tranquil
清湯	broth; clear soup; consommé
清湯寡水	meager fare; (fig.) insipid; colorless
清滌	to rinse; to wash; to clean
清漿	unsweetened soy milk; plain soy milk
清潔	clean; to clean
清潔劑	detergent; cleaning solution
清潔器	cleaner
清潔工	cleaner; janitor; garbage collector
清潔球	scouring ball
清潔袋	waste disposal bag
清澄	limpid
清澈	clear; limpid
清澈見底	water so clear you can see the bottom
清澈透底	(of a body of water) clear enough to see the bottom; limpid
清澗縣	Qingjian, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
清火	to clear internal heat (Chinese Medicine)
清炒	to stir-fry; to saute
清熱	to alleviate fever (medicine)
清燉	to stew meat without seasoning
清爽	fresh and cool; relaxed
清玩	a refined and elegant object for enjoyment; curio
清理	to clear up; to tidy up; to dispose of
清理隊伍	to purge the ranks
清瑩	limpid; glistening
清甜	(of flavor, voice etc) clear and sweet
清瘦	meager
清癯	lean; thin; spare
清白	pure; innocent
清皇朝	Qing dynasty (1644-1911)
清盤	liquidation
清真	Islamic; Muslim; halal (of food)
清真寺	mosque
清福	carefree and comfortable life (esp. in retirement)
清秀	delicate and pretty
清空	to clear; to empty
清算	to settle accounts; to clear accounts; to liquidate
清算行	clearing bank
清紅幫	traditional secret society, Chinese equivalent of Freemasons
清純	fresh and pure
清綺	beautiful; elegant
清脆	sharp and clear; crisp; melodious
清苑區	Qingyuan, a district of Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
清苦	destitute but honest; poor and simple; spartan
清茶	green tea; only tea (without food)
清華	abbr. for 清華大學|清华大学[Qing1 hua2 Da4 xue2]
清華大學	Tsinghua University, Beijing
清蒸	steamed in broth
清補涼	ching bo leung, an icy, sweet dessert soup
清談	light intellectual conversation
清談節目	talk show
清議	fair criticism; just comment
清豐縣	Qingfeng, a county in Puyang City 濮陽市|濮阳市[Pu2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
清貧	poor but upright; destitute
清越	clear and melodious
清軍	the Qing army
清退	to remove; to dismiss; to phase out; to return; to refund
清逸	fresh and elegant
清道	to clean the street
清道夫	(old) street cleaner; suckermouth catfish (Hypostomus plecostomus)
清遠市	Qingyuan, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
清邁	Chiang Mai, city in Thailand
清酌	wine offered to gods in worship
清酒	sake (Japanese rice wine)
清醒	clear-headed; sober; awake
清醒夢	lucid dream
清鎮市	Qingzhen, a county-level city in Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
清閒	idle; leisurely
清關	customs clearance
清除	to clear away; to eliminate; to get rid of
清隊	to purge the ranks
清雅	refined; elegant
清零	to restore sth to its initial state; to reset (an odometer etc)
清靜	quiet; peaceful and quiet
清音	(phonetics) voiceless sound
清風	cool breeze; fig. pure and honest
清風兩袖	honest and upright (idiom)
清風勁節	pure and high-minded (idiom)
清風明月	lit. cool breeze and bright moon (idiom)
清香	sweet scent; fragrant odor
清高	noble and virtuous; aloof from politics and material pursuits
清麗	(of writing, scenery, a woman etc) graceful; elegant; charming; beautiful
清點	to check; to make inventory
清黨	to purge a political party of undesirable elements
渙	to dissipate; to dissolve
渙散	to slacken; lax; slack
渙然	as if melting
渙然冰釋	(idiom) to melt away; to dissipate
渚	islet; bank
減	to lower; to decrease; to reduce
減低	to lower; to reduce
減俸	to lower salary; to reduce pay
減價	to cut prices; to discount; to mark down
減免	to reduce or waive (taxes, punishment, rent, tuition etc)
減分	to deduct points; to lose points
減刑	to reduce penalty; shortened or commuted (judicial) sentence
減削	to reduce; to cut down
減半	to reduce by half
減去	minus; to subtract
減員	to reduce the number of personnel
減噪	noise reduction
減壓	to reduce pressure; to relax
減壓時間表	decompression schedule (diving)
減壓病	decompression sickness; the bends; also 減壓症|减压症[jian3 ya1 zheng4]
減壓症	decompression sickness; the bends; also 減壓病|减压病[jian3 ya1 bing4]
減壓程序	decompression schedule
減壓表	decompression table
減妝	makeup box (old)
減小	to reduce; to decrease; to diminish
減少	to lessen; to decrease; to reduce; to lower
減幅	amount of reduction; extent of decline; size of discount
減弱	to weaken; to diminish
減息	to lower the interest rate
減慢	to slow down
減持	(of an investor) to reduce one's holdings
減振	shock absorption; vibration dampening
減掉	to subtract; to lose (weight)
減排	to reduce pollutant discharge; to reduce emissions
減損	to impair; to degrade; to decrease
減搖鰭	fin stabilizer (in ships); anti-roll stabilizer
減數	(math.) subtrahend
減數分裂	(biology) meiosis
減核	nuclear weapons reduction (abbr. for 裁減核武器|裁减核武器[cai2 jian3 he2 wu3 qi4])
減毒活疫苗	attenuated live vaccine
減法	subtraction
減災	to take measures to mitigate the impact of disasters (including prevention, preparation, and support for stricken communities)
減產	to produce less; to reduce output; lower yield
減益	debuff (gaming)
減碳	to reduce carbon emissions
減租	to reduce rent
減稅	to reduce the tax rate
減緩	to slow down; to retard
減肥	to lose weight
減脂	to burn fat; to lose weight (through diet or exercise)
減色	to fade; (fig.) to lose luster; (of an event etc) to be spoiled
減薪	to cut wages
減號	minus sign - (math.)
減計	to write down (i.e. to decrease the expected value of a loan)
減負	to alleviate a burden on sb
減貧	to reduce poverty; poverty reduction
減輕	to lighten; to ease; to alleviate
減退	to ebb; to go down; to decline
減速	to reduce speed; to slow down
減速器	moderator; reducer (mechanical gearbox)
減速帶	speed bump
減重	to lose weight
減除	to reduce; to lessen (pain etc); to deduct (from taxes)
減震	shock absorption; damping
減震器	shock absorber
減震鞋	cushioning shoe
減齡	to become more youthful
渝	(literary) (of faith, affection etc) to change; to waver (usu. in 不渝[bu4 yu2])
渝中區	Yuzhong, the central district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
渝水	old name of the Jialing River 嘉陵江[Jia1 ling2 Jiang1] in Sichuan and Chongqing
渝水區	Yushui, a district of Xinyu City 新余市[Xin1 yu2 Shi4], Jiangxi
渟	stagnant water
渠	(artificial) stream; canal; drain; ditch (CL:條|条[tiao2])
渠溝	trench
渠縣	Qu County or Quxian, a county in Dazhou City 達州市|达州市[Da2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
渠道	irrigation ditch; (fig.) channel; avenue
渠魁	rebel leader; ringleader; bandit chieftain
渡	to cross; to pass through; to ferry
渡假	(Tw) to go on holidays; to spend one's vacation
渡口	ferry crossing
渡槽	aqueduct
渡江	to cross a river
渡河	to cross a river
渡海	to cross a sea
渡渡鳥	the dodo (extinct bird)
渡船	ferry
渡輪	ferry boat
渡輪船	ferry ship
渡過	to cross over; to pass through
渡邊	Watanabe (Japanese surname)
渡頭	ferry crossing point
渡鴉	(bird species of China) common raven (Corvus corax)
渢	(onom.) sound of flowing water; sound of wind; Taiwan pr. [feng2]
渣	slag (in mining or smelting); dregs
渣子	dregs; bits; dregs (of society)
渣打銀行	Standard Chartered Bank
渣滓	residue; dregs; disreputable people
渣男	(coll.) jerk; scumbag (esp. in romantic relationships)
渤	used in 渤海[Bo2 Hai3]
渤海	Parhae, Korean kingdom in Manchuria and Siberia, 698–926
渤海灣	Bohai Bay
渤澥桑田	lit. blue seas where once was mulberry fields (idiom, from 史記|史记[Shi3 ji4], Record of the Grand Historian); time brings great changes
渥	to enrich; to moisten
渥堆	wet piling, aka wet pile fermentation (a stage in the production of certain types of tea, notably 熟普洱茶[shou2 Pu3 er3 cha2], ripe Pu'er tea)
渥太華	Ottawa, capital of Canada
渦	name of a river
渦噴	turbojet
渦扇	turbofan
渦旋	eddy; vortex
渦核	eye of a vortex
渦槳	turboprop
渦流	(electronics) eddy current
渦蟲綱	Turbellaria (an order of flatworms)
渦輪	turbine
渦輪噴氣發動機	turbojet
渦輪軸發動機	turboshaft
渦陽縣	Guoyang, a county in Bozhou City 亳州市[Bo2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
渧	to drop, as liquids; a drop
渨	cove; bay; a bend or nook in the hills
渫	to get rid of; to discharge; to dredge
測	to survey; to measure; to conjecture
測地曲率	geodesic curvature
測地線	geodesic; a geodesic (curve)
測地線曲率	geodesic curvature
測報	to estimate and report; to assess
測天	to make astronomical observation
測孕	pregnancy testing
測定	to determine (by measuring or surveying)
測序	(DNA etc) sequencing
測度	to estimate; to conjecture
測徑器	calipers
測心術	mind reading
測控	measurement and control
測深	to sound (sea depth)
測溫	to measure temperature
測溫槍	temperature gun
測知	to detect; to sense
測算	to take measurements and calculate
測繪	to survey and draw; to map
測評	to test and evaluate
測試	to test (machinery etc)
測試器	testing apparatus; monitoring device; checker
測謊儀	lie detector; polygraph
測謊器	lie detector; polygraph
測距	to measure distance
測距儀	electronic equipment used to measure distance (e.g. a rangefinder, telemeter etc)
測速	to measure speed
測量	survey; to measure; to gauge
測量工具	gauge; measuring tool
測量船	survey vessel
測錘	bob of plumb line
測驗	test; to test
渭	the Wei River in Shaanxi through the Guanzhong Plain 關中平原|关中平原[Guan1 zhong1 Ping2 yuan2]
渭南市	Weinan, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
渭城區	Weicheng, a district of Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
渭水	Wei River in Shaanxi, through the Guanzhong Plain 關中平原|关中平原[Guan1 zhong1 Ping2 yuan2]
渭河	Wei River in Shaanxi through the Guanzhong Plain 關中平原|关中平原[Guan1 zhong1 Ping2 yuan2]
渭源縣	Weiyuan, a county in Dingxi City 定西市[Ding4 xi1 Shi4], Gansu
渭濱區	Weibin, a district of Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
渮	place name
港	Hong Kong (abbr. for 香港[Xiang1 gang3]); surname Gang
港交所	Hong Kong Stock Exchange; abbr. for 香港交易所
港人	Hong Kong person or people
港元	Hong Kong dollar
港務局	port authority
港北區	Gangbei, a district of Guigang City 貴港市|贵港市[Gui4 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
港區	Minato area of downtown Tokyo
港區國安法	Hong Kong National Security Law (from 30th June 2020)
港南區	Gangnan, a district of Guigang City 貴港市|贵港市[Gui4 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
港口	port; harbor
港口區	Gangkou, a district of Fangchenggang City 防城港市[Fang2 cheng2 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
港口城市	port city
港埠	port; harbor
港島	Hong Kong Island; abbr. for 香港島|香港岛[Xiang1 gang3 dao3]
港幣	Hong Kong currency; Hong Kong dollar
港府	Hong Kong government
港式	Hong Kong style
港普	Hong Kong pidgin (a mix of Standard Mandarin and Cantonese)
港深	abbr. for Hong Kong 香港[Xiang1 gang3] and Shenzhen 深圳[Shen1 zhen4]
港澳	Hong Kong 香港[Xiang1 gang3] and Macao 澳門|澳门[Ao4 men2]
港澳地區	Hong Kong and Macao area
港澳臺	Hong Kong 香港, Macao 澳門|澳门 and Taiwan 臺灣|台湾[Tai2 wan1]
港澳辦	Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council (abbr. for 國務院港澳事務辦公室|国务院港澳事务办公室[Guo2 wu4 yuan4 Gang3 Ao4 Shi4 wu4 Ban4 gong1 shi4])
港灣	bay serving as a harbor
港燦	(derog.) Hong Konger
港獨	Hong Kong independence
港珠澳	Hong Kong, Zhuhai and Macau (abbr. for 香港[Xiang1 gang3] + 珠海[Zhu1 hai3] + 澳門|澳门[Ao4 men2])
港珠澳大橋	Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge
港督	governor of Hong Kong (during the period of British rule, 1841-1997)
港股	Hong Kong shares
港臺	Hong Kong and Taiwan
港英政府	British colonial administration of Hong Kong 1837-1941 and 1945-1997
港警	Hong Kong police
港鐵	(Hong Kong) MTR (Mass Transit Railway)
港龍航空	Hong Kong Dragon Airlines (operating as Dragonair), Hong Kong-based international airline
渰	(of cloud) forming or rising
渲	wash (color)
渲染	rendering (computing)
渴	thirsty
渴不可耐	to be so thirsty as to no longer be able to tolerate it
渴慕	to thirst for
渴望	to thirst for; to long for
渴求	to long for; to crave for; to greatly desire
渶	river in Shandong Province (old)
游	surname You
游仙區	Youxian, a district of Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
游動	to move about; to go from place to place; roving
游弋	(of a naval vessel) to cruise; to patrol
游戲手柄	gamepad
游戲池	paddling pool; wading pool
游擊	guerrilla warfare
游擊戰	guerrilla warfare
游擊隊	guerrilla band
游標	cursor (computing) (Tw); vernier
游水	to swim
游泳	swimming; to swim
游泳圈	swim ring; swim tube
游泳池	swimming pool
游泳衣	swimsuit; bathing costume
游泳鏡	swimming goggles
游泳館	indoor swimming pool; natatorium
游移	to wander; to shift around; to waver
游移不定	to oscillate without pause (idiom); to fluctuate
游絲	gossamer; hairspring
游蛇	water snake; colubrid; racer
游說團	lobby group
游說團體	lobby group
游資	floating capital; idle fund; hot money
游賞	to enjoy the sights (of)
游走	to swim away
游錫堃	Yu Shyi-kun (1948-) Taiwanese politician
游隼	(bird species of China) peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus)
游魚	a fish moving about in water
渺	(of an expanse of water) vast; distant and indistinct
渺乎其微	remote and insignificant (idiom)
渺子	muon (particle physics)
渺小	minute; tiny; negligible
渺渺茫茫	uncertain; unknown; fuzzy
渺無人煙	remote and uninhabited (idiom); deserted; God-forsaken
渺無音信	to receive no news whatsoever about sb
渺茫	uncertain; remote; distant and indistinct
渺視	to think little of; to look down on
渺遠	distant; remote (spatially or in time)
渼	ripple pattern
渾	muddy; turbid; brainless; foolish; (bound form) simple; natural
渾南區	Hunnan, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
渾厚	simple and honest; unsophisticated; (music etc) deep and resounding
渾圓	perfectly round; (fig.) accommodating; considerate
渾天儀	armillary sphere (astronomy)
渾天說	geocentric theory in ancient Chinese astronomy
渾如	very similar
渾家	wife
渾小子	(derog.) young hooligan (sometimes said in jest)
渾水摸魚	to fish in troubled water (idiom); to take advantage of a crisis for personal gain
渾江區	Hunjiang, a district of Baishan City 白山市[Bai2 shan1 Shi4], Jilin
渾河	Hun River
渾渾噩噩	(idiom) muddleheaded
渾源縣	Hunyuan, a county in Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
渾濁	muddy; turbid
渾然	completely; absolutely; undivided
渾然一體	to blend into one another; to blend together well
渾然不知	to be totally oblivious (to sth); to have no idea about sth
渾然不覺	totally unaware
渾然天成	to resemble nature itself; of the highest quality (idiom)
渾脫	leather float; inflatable raft
渾茫	the dark ages before civilization; limitless reaches
渾號	nickname
渾身	all over; from head to foot
渾身上下	all over; from head to toe
渾身解數	to give it your all; to go at it with all you've got
湃	used in 澎湃[peng2 pai4]
湄	(literary) shore; coast; bank
湄公河	Mekong River
湄公河三角洲	Mekong River Delta
湄南河	Chao Phraya River (aka Menam), the main river of Thailand
湄洲島	Meizhou Island (Putian)
湄潭縣	Meitan, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
湅	to boil raw silk (to soften and clean it)
湉	(literary) smoothly flowing, placid (water)
湉湉	(literary) smoothly flowing, placid (water)
湊	to gather together, pool or collect; to happen by chance
湊付	to put together hastily; to make do with
湊份子	to pool resources (for a gift, project etc)
湊合	to bring together; to make do in a bad situation; to just get by
湊單	to pad an order; to add extra items to an order so as to reach the minimum spend required to use a coupon, get a discount or qualify for free shipping
湊巧	fortuitously; luckily; as chance has it
湊成	to put together; to make up (a set)
湊手	at hand; within easy reach; convenient
湊數	to serve as a stopgap; to make up a shortfall in the number of people
湊熱鬧	to join in the fun; to get in on the action; (fig.) to butt in
湊趣	to comply in order to please others; to accommodate sb else's taste
湊足	to scrape together enough (people, money etc)
湊近	to approach; to lean close to
湊錢	to raise enough money to do sth; to pool money
湊齊	to collect all the bits to make a whole
湋	to flow back (of water)
湍	to rush (of water)
湍急	rapid (flow of water)
湍流	turbulence
湎	used in 沉湎[chen2 mian3]
湑	abundant; bright; strain spirits
湓	flowing of water; name of a river
湔	to wash; to redress (a wrong); name of a river
湔洗	to wash
湔滌	to wash
湔雪	to wipe away (a humiliation); to redress (a wrong)
湖	lake
湖人	Los Angeles Lakers; abbr. for 洛杉磯湖人|洛杉矶湖人[Luo4 shan1 ji1 Hu2 ren2]
湖光山色	scenic lakes and mountain (idiom); beautiful lake and mountain landscape
湖北省	Hubei Province, capital Wuhan 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4] (short name 鄂[E4])
湖北花楸	Chinese Rowan tree; Sorbus hupehensis or Hupeh rowan
湖區	Lake District, north England
湖南大學	Hunan University
湖南省	Hunan Province, capital Changsha 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4] (short name 湘[Xiang1])
湖口縣	Hukou, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
湖州市	Huzhou, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
湖廣	Hubei and Hunan provinces (a Ming dynasty province)
湖心	center of a lake
湖沼	lakes and marshes
湖沼學	limnology
湖泊	lake
湖濱	lake front
湖濱區	Hubin, a district of Sanmenxia City 三門峽市|三门峡市[San1 men2 xia2 Shi4], Henan
湖畔	lakeside
湖邊	lakeside
湖里區	Huli, a district of Xiamen City 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 Shi4], Fujian
湘	abbr. for Hunan 湖南 province in south central China
湘劇	Xiang opera (Hunan)
湘勇	Hunan army, irregular force formed in 1850s to fight the Taiping heavenly kingdom rebellion
湘妃竹	same as 斑竹[ban1 zhu2], mottled bamboo, since according to legend the spots on mottled bamboo are marks left by the tears shed by two of King Shun's 舜[Shun4] concubines (Ehuang 娥皇[E2 huang2] and Nüying 女英[Nu:3 ying1], known as the Concubines of the Xiang 湘妃[Xiang1 Fei1]) upon learning of his death
湘東區	Xiangdong, a district of Pingxiang City 萍鄉市|萍乡市[Ping2 xiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
湘桂運河	Hunan-Guangxi Canal, another name for Lingqu 靈渠|灵渠[Ling2 qu2], canal in Xing'an County 興安|兴安[Xing1 an1], Guangxi
湘橋區	Xiangqiao, a district of Chaozhou City 潮州市[Chao2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
湘江	the Xiangjiang river in Hunan province
湘潭市	Xiangtan, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
湘潭縣	Xiangtan, a county in Xiangtan City 湘潭市[Xiang1 tan2 Shi4], Hunan
湘繡	Hunan embroidery, one of the four major traditional styles of Chinese embroidery (the other three being 蘇繡|苏绣[Su1 xiu4], 粵繡|粤绣[Yue4 xiu4] and 蜀繡|蜀绣[Shu3 xiu4])
湘菜	Hunan cuisine
湘西土家族苗族自治州	Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture, in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
湘語	Xiang (Hunanese) dialect spoken in Hunan Province
湘軍	Hunan army, irregular force formed in 1850s to fight the Taiping heavenly kingdom rebellion
湘鄉市	Xiangxiang, a county-level city in Xiangtan City 湘潭市[Xiang1 tan2 Shi4], Hunan
湘陰縣	Xiangyin, a county in Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
湘黔	Hunan-Guizhou
湛	deep; clear (water)
湛江市	Zhanjiang, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
湛河區	Zhanhe, a district of Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
湛藍	azure
湜	clear water; pure
湝	flowing (of water)
湞	river in Guangdong province
湞江區	Zhenjiang, a district of Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
湟	name of a river
湟中區	Huangzhong, a district of Xining City 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4], Qinghai
湟水	Huangshui River, upper reaches of the Yellow River 黃河|黄河[Huang2 He2], flowing through Qinghai and Gansu
湟源縣	Huangyuan, a county in Xining City 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4], Qinghai
湟魚	naked carp; Gymnocypris przewalskii
湢	public bathhouse
湣	(ancient character used in posthumous titles of monarchs)
湧	to well up; to gush forth; to surge
湧入	to come pouring in; influx
湧出	to gush; to gush out; to pour out
湧動	(of water, people, thoughts etc) to surge; to well up and flow; to move in waves
湧泉	gushing spring
湧泉穴	(TCM) acupuncture point KI-1, located on the sole
湧流	to gush; to spurt
湧浪	swell; billows; surging waves
湧溢	to well up; to spill out (of water from a spring)
湧現	to emerge in large numbers; to spring up; to emerge prominently
湧起	to well up; to boil out; to bubble forth
湧進	to spill; to overflow (of water, crowds); to crowd (into a space)
湩	milk; sound of a drum
湫	marsh
湮	(literary) to sink into oblivion; (literary) to silt up
湮沒	to bury; to submerge; to pass into oblivion
湮沒無聞	to pass into oblivion
湮滅	to sink into oblivion; to bury in obscurity
湯	soup; hot or boiling water; decoction of medicinal herbs
湯劑	decoction; potion
湯力水	tonic water
湯加	Tonga, South Pacific archipelago kingdom
湯加群島	Tonga
湯加里羅	Tongariro, volcanic area on North Island, New Zealand
湯勺	soup ladle
湯包	steamed dumpling
湯匙	soup spoon; tablespoon
湯博樂	Tumblr (microblogging and social networking website)
湯原縣	Tangyuan, a county in Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
湯圓	boiled or deep-fried balls of glutinous rice flour, usually eaten during Lantern Festival
湯塊	bouillon cube
湯姆	Tom (name)
湯姆·克蘭西	Tom Clancy (1947-2013), US author
湯姆·克魯斯	Tom Cruise (1962-), film actor
湯姆·索亞歷險記	Adventures of Tom Sawyer by Mark Twain 馬克·吐溫|马克·吐温[Ma3 ke4 · Tu3 wen1]
湯姆·羅賓斯	Tom Robbins, American novelist
湯姆孫	Thompson or Thomson (name)
湯姆斯杯	Thomas Cup (international badminton team competition)
湯姆索亞歷險記	Adventures of Tom Sawyer by Mark Twain
湯姆遜	Thomson (name)
湯婆	hot-water bottle
湯婆子	hot-water bottle
湯川	Yukawa (name)
湯川秀樹	YUKAWA Hideki (1907-1988), Japanese theoretical physicist and Nobel laureate
湯料	raw materials for making soup; packaged soup mix
湯旺縣	Tangwang, a county in Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
湯普森	(name) Thompson
湯武革命	the Tang and Wu Revolts: the overthrow (c. 1600 BC) of the Xia Dynasty by the first king, Tang 商湯|商汤[Shang1 Tang1], of the Shang Dynasty, and the overthrow (c. 1046 BC) of the Shang Dynasty by the Zhou Dynasty founder, King Wu 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2]
湯汁	soup; broth
湯泉	hot spring (archaic)
湯浴	(old) hot bath
湯玉麟	Tang Yulin (1871-1937), minor warlord in northeast China, sometime governor of Chengde 承德, mostly poor in battle but very successful at accumulating personal wealth
湯盤	soup plate
湯碗	soup bowl
湯種	water roux (aka tangzhong), a gelatinous paste made by heating a mixture of flour and water, used in breadmaking to produce a softer, fluffier loaf (loanword from Japanese 湯種 yudane)
湯藥	tisane; decoction (Chinese medicine)
湯陰縣	Tangyin, a county in Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
湯類	soup dishes (on menu)
湯顯祖	Tang Xianzu (1550-1616), Ming poet and dramatist, author of The Peony Pavilion 牡丹亭[Mu3 dan5 Ting2]
湯餅筵	dinner party given on the third day after the birth of a baby (traditional)
湯麵	noodles in soup
湱	dashing of waves
湲	rushing (water)
湳	(used in place names)
湴	to wade through water or mud
溈	name of a river in Shanxi
溉	to irrigate
溉滌	to wash
溍	water; name of a river
溎	name of a river
溏	half congealed; pond
溏便	(TCM) unformed stool; semiliquid stool
溏心	soft yolk (of a cooked egg)
源	root; source; origin
源代碼	source code (computing)
源匯區	Yuanhui, a district of Luohe City 漯河市[Luo4 he2 Shi4], Henan
源器官	source organ
源城區	Yuancheng, a district of Heyuan City 河源市[He2 yuan2 Shi4], Guangdong
源於	has its origins in
源氏物語	The Tale of Genji, classic Japanese novel by Murasaki Shikibu (c. 11th century)
源泉	fountainhead; well-spring; water source
源流	(of watercourses) source and course; origin and development
源源不斷	(idiom) in an unending stream; continuous
源碼	source code (computing)
源程序	source code (computing)
源自	to originate from
源賴朝	MINAMOTO no Yoritomo (1147-1199), Japanese warlord and founder of the Kamakura shogunate 鐮倉幕府|镰仓幕府[Lian2 cang1 mu4 fu3]
源起	to originate
源遠流長	(idiom) of long standing; with a long history; stretching back to ancient times
源頭	source; origin; fountainhead
源點	source
準	accurate; standard; definitely
準保	certainly; for sure
準信	definite and reliable information
準備	preparation; to prepare; to intend
準備好了	to be ready
準備金	reserve fund
準則	norm; standard; criterion
準噶爾盆地	Junggar Basin, northern Xinjiang
準噶爾翼龍	Dsungaripterus (genus of pterosaur)
準媽媽	mother-to-be
準星	front sight (firearms); the zero point indicator marked on a steelyard
準時	on time; punctual; on schedule
準決賽	semifinal
準的	standard; norm; criterion
準確	accurate; exact; precise
準確性	accuracy
準穩旋渦結構	quasi-stationary spiral structure QSSS (astrophysics)
準線	directrix line of a parabola; guide line
準繩	yardstick; fig. criterion; ground rule
準譜兒	definite idea; certainty; clear plan; definite guidelines
準頭	(physiognomy) the tip of the nose
準點	on time; on schedule
溘	suddenly
溘先朝露	the morning dew will swiftly dissipate (idiom); fig. ephemeral and precarious nature of human existence
溘然	suddenly
溜	to slip away; to escape in stealth; to skate
溜之大吉	to steal away; to beat it
溜冰	ice skating; (slang) to do meth
溜冰場	ice rink; skating rink
溜冰鞋	skating shoes; ice skates; roller skates
溜圓	perfectly round
溜旱冰	roller blading (sport)
溜槽	sluice; chute
溜溜球	yo-yo (loanword)
溜索	zip line
溜肩	sloping shoulders
溜肩膀	sloping shoulders; irresponsible; work-shy
溜舐	to flatter obsequiously; toady
溜號	(coll.) to slink off
溜走	to slip away; to leave secretly
溜達	to stroll; to go for a walk
溜邊	to keep to the edge (of path, river etc); fig. to keep out of trouble
溜邊兒	to keep to the edge (of path, river etc)
溜鬚拍馬	to smooth whiskers and pat a horse's bottom (idiom); to use flatter to get what one wants
溝	ditch; gutter; groove
溝壑	gorge; gulch; ravine
溝子	(coll.) butt crack
溝槽	groove; furrow; trench
溝渠	channel; moat; irrigation canal
溝澗	gully; ravine
溝谷	gully
溝通	to join; to connect; to link up; to communicate
溝道	groove
溟	to drizzle; sea
溟島	an island in the sea
溟池	the northern sea
溟海	a dark sea
溟溟	drizzling; gloomy; dim
溟漭	vast and boundless
溟蒙	drizzling; gloomy; dim
溠	name of a river
溢	to overflow; (literary) excessive
溢價	premium; to charge or pay a premium
溢出	to overflow; to spill over; (computing) overflow
溢出效應	spillover effect
溢於言表	to exhibit one's feelings in one's speech
溢流孔	bleed hole; overflow pipe; spill vent
溢滿	overflowing
溢繳款	credit card overpayment
溢美之詞	flattering words; inflated praise
溤	name of a river
溥	extensive; pervading
溥儀	Puyi, personal name of the last Qing emperor (reigned as child 1909-1911), the subject of Bertolucci's biopic The Last Emperor
溥儁	a Qing prince who was the designated successor to emperor Guangxu until the Boxer uprising
溦	drizzle; fine rain
溧	name of a river
溧水區	Lishui, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
溧陽市	Liyang, a county-level city in Changzhou City 常州市[Chang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
溪	creek; rivulet
溪壑	valley; mountain gorge
溪徑	path; (fig.) way; channel
溪流	stream
溪湖區	Xihu, a district of Benxi City 本溪市[Ben3 xi1 Shi4], Liaoning
溪澗	stream; mountain gorge
溪蟹	crab of the family Potamidae of freshwater crabs
溪谷	valley; gorge
溪黃草	Rabdosia lophanthoides (no common name), herb plant of Lamiaceae family (together with mint and lavender), used in TCM
溫	warm; lukewarm; to warm up; (bound form) temperature
溫乎	warm; lukewarm
溫切斯特	Winchester (town in south England, capital of former kingdom of Wessex)
溫厚	good-natured; warm and generous; gentle
溫吞	tepid; lukewarm; (fig.) apathetic; half-hearted; sluggish
溫和	mild; gentle; moderate
溫和性	tenderness
溫和派	moderate faction
溫哥華	Vancouver (city in Canada)
溫哥華島	Vancouver Island
溫壓	temperature and pressure
溫婉	sweet-tempered; gentle
溫存	tender; affectionate; tenderness
溫室	greenhouse
溫室效應	greenhouse effect
溫室氣體	greenhouse gas
溫家寶	Wen Jiabao (1942-), Premier of PRC from 2003-2013
溫宿縣	Onsu, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
溫尼伯	Winnipeg, capital of Manitoba, Canada
溫居	to have a housewarming party; to celebrate moving into a new home
溫嶺市	Wenling, a county-level city in Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
溫州市	Wenzhou, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
溫差	difference in temperature
溫布爾登	Wimbledon (district of southwest London)
溫布爾登網球公開賽	Wimbledon Championships (tennis)
溫布爾頓	Wimbledon
溫布頓	Wimbledon
溫帶	temperate zone
溫床	hotbed; breeding ground; fig. breeding ground for crimes or sedition
溫度	temperature
溫度梯度	temperature gradient
溫度表	thermometer
溫度計	thermometer; thermograph
溫得和克	Windhoek, capital of Namibia
溫情	tenderness; warmth; warmhearted
溫情脈脈	full of tender feelings (idiom); tender-hearted
溫故知新	to review the old and know the new (idiom, from the Analects)
溫故而知新	to review the old and know the new (idiom, from the Analects)
溫文	genteel
溫文爾雅	cultured and refined (idiom); gentle and cultivated
溫斯頓	Winston (name)
溫暖	warm
溫書	to review lessons; to go over one's lessons
溫柔	gentle and soft; tender; sweet (commonly used to describe a girl or woman)
溫標	temperature scale
溫水煮青蛙	(fig.) introducing change incrementally so that it arouses little resistance; gradual change that goes unnoticed until it's too late
溫江區	Wenjiang, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
溫泉	hot spring
溫泉城	hot springs
溫泉縣	Wenquan, a county in Bortala Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 博爾塔拉蒙古自治州|博尔塔拉蒙古自治州[Bo2 er3 ta3 la1 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
溫泉蛋	onsen tamago; hot spring egg (soft-boiled egg cooked slowly in hot spring water)
溫溫	mild
溫潤	gentle; kindly; mild and humid (climate)
溫煦	warm
溫熱	tepid; to warm up (food etc)
溫特圖爾	Winterthur, Switzerland
溫玉	onsen tamago; hot spring egg (soft-boiled egg cooked slowly in hot spring water) (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 温玉 "ontama", which is an abbr. for 温泉玉子 "onsen tamago")
溫理	to review (a lesson etc); to bring back to one's mind
溫網	Wimbledon Championships (tennis)
溫縣	Wen County or Wenxian, a county in Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
溫習	to review (a lesson etc)
溫良	warm and kind
溫良忍讓	submissive; accommodating
溫良恭儉	temperate, kind, courteous and restrained
溫良恭儉讓	temperate, kind, courteous, restrained and magnanimous
溫藹	gentle and kind
溫血	warm blooded (animal)
溫覺	heat sensation
溫躍層	thermocline
溫酒	to warm up wine
溫雅	gentle; urbane; refined
溫靜	quiet and gentle
溫順	docile; meek
溫飽	to have enough food and warm clothes; adequately provided
溫馨	comfort; soft and fragrant; warm
溫馨提示	Please note:; tip; hint
溫馴	docile; meek; harmless
溫體肉	meat that is not refrigerated after the animal is slaughtered
溫鹽環流	(oceanography) thermohaline circulation
溮	Shi, name of river in Xinyang 信陽|信阳, Henan
溮河	Shi River in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
溮河區	Shihe, a district of Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
溯	to go upstream; to trace the source
溯源	to investigate the origin of sth
溯溪	river tracing; mountain stream climbing (recreational activity)
溱	name of a river
溲	to urinate
溳	(name of a river in Hebei)
溴	bromine (chemistry)
溴化氰	cyanogen bromide
溴化鉀	potassium bromide
溴單質	molecular bromine
溵	used in place-names, e.g. 溵水 was once the name of the Shahe River 沙河, Henan, and 溵州 was a Tang Dynasty prefecture
溶	to dissolve; soluble
溶劑	solvent
溶化	to melt; to dissolve (of sugar etc)
溶小體儲積症	lysosomal storage disease (LSD)
溶栓	thrombolysis (med.)
溶沒	to fade away; to disappear; to hide from view
溶洞	(geology) solutional cave (typically, a limestone cave)
溶液	solution (chemistry)
溶源性	lysogeny (reproduction cycle of bacteriophage 噬菌體|噬菌体[shi4 jun1 ti3])
溶蝕	dissolving; erosion by groundwater; corrosion
溶蝕作用	dissolving; erosion by groundwater; corrosion
溶血	hemolysis (breakdown of red blood cells leading to anemia)
溶血病	hemolytic disease of newborn (breakdown of red blood cells due to alloimmune reaction between mother and fetus)
溶解	to dissolve
溶解度	solubility
溶解性	soluble; solubility
溶質	solute
溶酶體	lysosome
溷	privy; animal pen; muddy
溺	to drown; to indulge; addicted to
溺亡	to drown
溺嬰	to drown a newborn baby (as method of infanticide)
溺愛	to spoil; to pamper; to dote on
溺死	to drown
溺水	to drown
溺職	to neglect one's duty; dereliction of duty
溻	(of clothes) to be soaked with sweat
溽	damp; muggy
溾	light rain
滁	name of a river in Anhui
滁州市	Chuzhou, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
滂	rushing (water)
滂沱	pouring; flooding
滂沱大雨	torrents of rain (idiom)
滂臭	(dialect) stinky; smelly
滃	(of clouds) to rise; (of water) to swell
滄	(bound form) (of water, esp. the ocean) deep blue-green
滄州市	Cangzhou, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
滄桑	great changes; ups and downs; vicissitudes
滄桑感	a sense of having been through good times and bad
滄浪亭	Canglang Pavilion in Suzhou, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
滄海一粟	(lit.) one grain floating on the ocean (idiom)
滄海桑田	lit. the blue sea turned into mulberry fields (idiom)
滄海遺珠	undiscovered talent (idiom)
滄源佤族自治縣	Cangyuan Va Autonomous County, in Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
滄縣	Cang County or Cangxian, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
滄龍	(zoology) mosasaur
滄龍科	(zoology) family Mosasauridae
滅	to extinguish or put out; to go out (of a fire etc)
滅亡	to be destroyed; to become extinct; to perish; to die out
滅口	to kill sb to prevent them from divulging a secret; to silence sb
滅國	to destroy a country; to wipe a nation off the map
滅團	(video gaming) to wipe out an entire team or party
滅失	loss (of sth through natural disaster, theft etc) (law)
滅度	to extinguish worries and the sea of grief; nirvana (Buddhism)
滅掉	to eliminate
滅族	extermination of an entire family (ancient Chinese punishment)
滅此朝食	lit. not to have breakfast until the enemy is destroyed
滅殺	to kill; to exterminate (pests, bacteria etc)
滅活	to inactivate (a virus etc)
滅活疫苗	inactivated vaccine
滅火	to extinguish a fire; firefighting
滅火器	fire extinguisher
滅種	to commit genocide; to become extinct; extinction of a race
滅種罪	genocide
滅絕	to become extinct; to die out; to lose (sth abstract) completely
滅絕人性	(idiom) to be devoid of all humanity; inhuman; bestial
滅絕種族	to commit genocide
滅茬	to clear stubble from fields (agriculture)
滅菌	to sterilize
滅蟲寧	bephenium, anti-parasitic worm medicine
滅門	to exterminate an entire family
滅除	to eliminate; to kill off
滅音器	muffler (of an internal combustion engine)
滅頂	to be drowned (figurative and literal)
滅頂之災	(idiom) catastrophic disaster; devastating calamity
滅鼠藥	rat poison
滇	short name for Yunnan 雲南|云南[Yun2 nan2]
滇東	east Yunnan
滇池	lake Dianchi in Yunnan
滇紅	Dian Hong tea
滇藏	Yunnan and Tibet
滇藏川	Yunnan, Tibet and Sichuan
滇鳾	(bird species of China) Yunnan nuthatch (Sitta yunnanensis)
滉	bright expanse of water
滊	name of a river
滋	to grow; to nourish; to increase
滋事	to cause trouble; to provoke a dispute
滋味	taste; flavor; feeling
滋擾	to cause trouble; to provoke a dispute
滋水槍	water gun
滋潤	moist; humid; to moisten
滋生	to breed; to flourish; to cause
滋芽	(dialect) to sprout; to germinate
滋蔓	(literary) to spread and grow; to proliferate
滋補	nourishing; nutritious
滋補品	tonic; invigorant
滋賀	Shiga (prefecture in Japan)
滋長	to grow (usually of abstract things); to yield; to develop
滋養	to nourish
滋養層	trophoblastic layer (attaches fertilized ovum to the uterus)
滌	to wash; to cleanse
滌卡	polyester khaki (abbr. for 滌綸卡其布|涤纶卡其布[di2 lun2 ka3 qi2 bu4])
滌去	to wash off
滌塵	to wash off dust
滌慮	to free the mind from worries
滌棉	polyester-cotton blend
滌汰	to wash away; to eradicate
滌淨	to cleanse; to purge
滌瑕	to cleanse away a stain
滌硯	to wash an ink-slab; to prepare for study (idiom)
滌綸	polyester fiber
滌罪所	purgatory (religion)
滌蕩	to wash off
滌除	to wash away; to eliminate; to do away with
滍	(used in place names)
滎	used in 滎經|荥经[Ying2 jing1] (the name of a place in Sichuan)
滎經縣	Yingjing, a county in Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
滎陽市	Xingyang, a county-level city in Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
滏	name of a river in Hebei
滑	to slip; to slide; slippery; smooth; sly; slippery; not to be trusted
滑倒	to slip and fall; to lose one's footing and fall
滑冰	to skate; skating
滑出	to slip out
滑動	to slide; sliding movement
滑坡	rockslide; landslip; landslide
滑塊	runner block; sliding block; slider (computer interface element)
滑天下之大稽	to be the most ridiculous thing in the world (idiom)
滑旱冰	(roller)blading; roller skating; inline skating
滑板	skateboard
滑板車	kick scooter; push scooter
滑板鞋	skate shoes
滑梯	(children's) sliding board; a slide
滑步機	elliptical trainer
滑水	water skiing; to water-ski
滑水道	water slide
滑沙	sandboarding
滑溜	to sauté in sticky sauce
滑溜溜	smooth; slick; slippery
滑環	slip ring; collector ring (electrical engineering)
滑石	talc
滑石粉	talcum powder
滑移	to slip; to drift
滑稽	comical; funny; amusing (old pr. [gu3 ji1])
滑竿	a kind of sedan chair, usu. made of bamboo and mounted on a pair of long bamboo poles
滑索	zip line
滑縣	Hua County or Huaxian, a county in Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
滑翔	to glide
滑翔傘	paraglider (equipment); paragliding (sport)
滑翔機	glider
滑翔翼	hang glider (equipment); hang gliding (sport)
滑胎	drift (car racing technique)
滑膛	smoothbore
滑膜	synovial membrane; synovium
滑膩	(of skin) satiny
滑落	to slip and fall; to slide down; to roll down
滑蓋手機	slider phone
滑蛋	soft-scrambled egg (cooked until smooth and tender)
滑行	to slide; to coast; to glide
滑行道	taxiway (at airport)
滑跪	(of a soccer player) to knee slide after scoring a goal
滑車	pulley block
滑輪	block and tackle
滑鐵盧	Waterloo (Belgium); Battle of Waterloo (1815); (fig.) a defeat
滑鐵盧火車站	Waterloo Station (London)
滑門	sliding door
滑雪	to ski; skiing
滑雪場	ski slopes; ski resort
滑雪板	ski; snowboard
滑雪索道	ski-lift
滑雪術	skiing
滑雪運動	skiing
滑音	glissando
滑頭	crafty; slippery; slyboots
滑鼠	(computer) mouse (Tw)
滑鼠墊	mouse pad (Tw)
滑鼠手	carpal tunnel syndrome (Tw)
滑鼠蛇	Oriental rat snake (Ptyas mucosus)
滓	(bound form) dregs; sediment
滔	(bound form) to inundate; deluge; torrent
滔天	(of waves, anger, a disaster, a crime etc) towering; overwhelming; immense
滔天大罪	heinous crime
滔滔	torrential
滔滔不絕	(idiom) to produce a torrent of words; to talk on and on
滕	vassal state of Zhou in Shandong; surname Teng
滕州市	Tengzhou, a county-level city in Zaozhuang City 棗莊市|枣庄市[Zao3 zhuang1 Shi4], Shandong
滕斯貝格	Tønsberg (city in Vestfold, Norway)
滕王閣	Tengwang Tower in Nanchang, Jiangxi
滘	place name in Guangdong
滧	(dialect) natural branching stream; (used in place names)
滫	(literary) water that was used to rinse rice and has become smelly; befouled water
滬	short name for Shanghai
滬上	alternative name for Shanghai 上海[Shang4 hai3]; at (or in) Shanghai
滬劇	Shanghai opera
滬寧	Shanghai and Nanjing
滬寧線	Shanghai-Nanjing line
滬寧鐵路	Shanghai-Nanjing Railway, a.k.a. Huning Railway
滬江	alternative name for Shanghai 上海[Shang4 hai3]
滬深港	abbr. for Shanghai 上海[Shang4 hai3], Shenzhen 深圳[Shen1 zhen4] and Hong Kong 香港[Xiang1 gang3]
滬綜指	Shanghai composite index (stock market index)
滬語	Shanghainese; Shanghai dialect
滮	flowing of water
滯	(bound form) sluggish; stagnant
滯塞	to obstruct
滯後	to lag behind
滯期費	demurrage charge (shipping) (currency)
滯留	(of a person) to remain in (a place) (due to circumstances that prevent one leaving); to be stranded
滯留鋒	stationary front (meteorology)
滯納	overdue (payment); in arrears
滯納金	overdue fine; late fine
滯脹	stagflation (i.e. simultaneous inflation and stagnation)
滯銷	to sell poorly; unmarketable; slow-moving (product, inventory etc)
滲	to seep; to ooze; to horrify
滲人	horrifying; creepy
滲入	to permeate
滲出	to seep out; to exude
滲出物	exudate
滲坑	sewage pit
滲析	dialysis
滲水	water seepage
滲流	to ooze; to seep
滲涼	to feel the penetrating chill of cold air
滲溝	sewer
滲漏	seepage; leakage
滲濾	percolation
滲濾壺	coffee percolator
滲碳	carburization
滲色	bleeding
滲透	(lit. and fig.) to permeate; to seep into
滲透壓	osmotic pressure
滴	to drip; to let drip; to apply (eye drops etc)
滴下	to fall or let fall in drops; to drip
滴劑	to drip (e.g. medical drip feed)
滴定	titration
滴定管	burette
滴度	(chemistry, medicine) titer
滴水	water drop; dripping water
滴水不漏	lit. not one drop of water can leak out; watertight
滴水不羼	not diluted by one drop; hundred percent
滴水嘴獸	gargoyle (architecture)
滴水石穿	dripping water penetrates the stone (idiom); constant perseverance yields success
滴水穿石	dripping water penetrates the stone (idiom); constant perseverance yields success
滴注	to drip into; to transfuse; to percolate
滴流	trickle
滴溜圓	completely round
滴溜溜	whirling; spinning around and around; round and plump (e.g. of fruit)
滴滴	DiDi, app-based transportation company (abbr. for 滴滴出行[Di1 di1 Chu1 xing2])
滴滴出行	Didi Chuxing Technology Co., aka DiDi, app-based transportation company, headquartered in Beijing, founded in 2012
滴滴涕	(loanword) DDT (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane)
滴漏	water clock; clepsydra; to drip
滴漏計時器	hourglass; water clock; clepsydra
滴瀝	to drip (of rainwater)
滴灌	to drip irrigate
滴瓶	(chemistry) dropping bottle
滴眼液	eye drops
滴石	a dripstone (geology); stalactites and stalagmites
滴答	(onom.) pattering sound; drip drip (of water); tick tock (of clock)
滴答聲	tick (tock)
滴管	intravenous drip tube; dropper; eyedropper; (coll.) pipette
滴翠	verdant; green
滴蟲病	trichomoniasis (medicine)
滴蠟	(BDSM) wax play
滴道區	Didao, a district of Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
滴酒不沾	never to touch a drop of alcohol
滴里嘟嚕	cumbersome
滴里耷拉	hanging down loosely; dangling in disorder
滴點	melting point (of lubricating oil)
滷	to stew in soy sauce and spices
滷味	food braised in soy sauce and spices
滷壺	a ceramic teapot
滷汁	gravy; marinade
滷肉	stewed meat
滷菜	pot-stewed dish
滷蛋	peeled boiled egg, stewed in soy sauce and other flavorings
滸	bank of a river
滹	surname Hu; name of a river
滻	name of a river in Shaanxi province
滻河	Chan River (in Shaanxi province)
滾	to boil; to roll; to take a hike
滾刀	(engineering) gear hob (cutting tool used in manufacturing gears)
滾刀塊	chunks obtained by repeatedly cutting a vegetable diagonally and rotating the vegetable after each cut
滾刀肉	annoying person; troublemaker; pain in the neck
滾動	to roll; (to do sth) in a loop; to scroll (computing)
滾動條	(computing) scroll bar
滾圓	as round as a ball
滾奏	drum roll
滾子	roller
滾子軸承	roller bearing
滾床單	(coll.) to have sex
滾彩蛋	egg rolling (rolling of decorated, hard-boiled eggs down hillsides by children at Easter)
滾水	boiling water
滾沸	(of a liquid) to boil
滾油煎心	to suffer mental anguish (idiom)
滾滾	to surge on; to roll on
滾燙	boiling hot
滾犢子	(dialect) Beat it!; Scram!; Fuck off!
滾珠	bearing ball
滾珠軸承	ball bearing
滾球	lawn bowls; bocce; pétanque
滾瓜溜圓	(of animals) round and fat
滾瓜爛熟	lit. ripe as a melon that rolls from its vine (idiom); fig. to know fluently
滾石	Rock Records, Taiwanese record label
滾石上山	(fig.) to press ahead with a difficult undertaking through sustained effort
滾筒	roller; cylinder (machine part); drum
滾筒刷	paint roller
滾粗	(Internet slang) get out!; get lost! (playful contraction of 滾出去|滚出去[gun3 chu1 qu4])
滾落	to tumble
滾蛋	(slang) get out of here!; beat it!
滾裝船	roll-on, roll-off ship (RORO ship); vessel designed to load and unload vehicles by driving them on and off
滾輪	roller; rotating dial; (computer mouse) scroll wheel
滾邊	(of a dress etc) border, edging
滾開	(of a liquid) to boil; boiling hot
滾齒	(engineering) hobbing (process used in manufacturing gears)
滿	to fill; full; filled
滿不在乎	not in the least concerned (idiom); reckless
滿世界	everywhere; across the world
滿人	a Manchu
滿公	altogether; in all
滿分	full marks
滿剌加	Ming Dynasty name for modern day Malacca
滿口	a full mouth of (sth tangible)
滿口之乎者也	mouth full of literary phrases; to spout the classics
滿口應承	to promise readily
滿口稱讚	to praise profusely
滿口答應	to readily consent
滿口胡柴	to spout nonsense; to bullshit endlessly
滿口胡言	to spout nonsense; to bullshit endlessly
滿口謊言	to pour out lies
滿口髒話	to pour out obscenities; filthy mouthed
滿員	full complement; at full strength; no vacancies
滿嘴	a full mouth of (sth physical)
滿嘴噴糞	to talk bullshit
滿嘴起皰	to have lips covered in blisters
滿嘴跑火車	(idiom) to have a glib tongue; to talk big
滿嘴跑舌頭	to talk without thinking; to drivel
滿園春色	everything in the garden is lovely
滿地可	Montreal (chiefly used in Hong Kong and the Chinese community in Canada) (from Cantonese 滿地可|满地可 Mun5 dei6 ho2)
滿地找牙	to be looking for one's teeth all over the floor
滿坐寂然	the whole audience silent with expectation
滿坑滿谷	(idiom) all over the place; in every nook and cranny
滿城區	Mancheng, a district of Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
滿城盡帶黃金甲	Curse of the Golden Flower (2007), period drama movie by Zhang Yimou
滿城風雨	lit. wind and rain sweeping through the town (idiom)
滿堂	whole audience; a sellout (capacity audience); jam-packed
滿堂彩	everyone present applauds; universal acclaim; a standing ovation
滿堂灌	cramming (as a teaching method); rote learning
滿堂紅	success across the board; victory in everything one touches
滿場一致	unanimous
滿壘	(baseball) bases loaded
滿天	whole sky
滿天星	Baby's Breath; Gypsophila paniculata
滿天繁星	lit. whole sky, a multitude of stars
滿天飛	to rush around everywhere; always active
滿孝	at the end of the mourning period
滿射	surjective map (math.)
滿山遍野	covering the whole land; over hills and dales
滿帆	under full sail; going as fast as possible
滿師	to finish apprenticeship; to graduate
滿座	fully booked; every seat taken
滿心	one's whole heart; from the bottom of one's heart
滿意	satisfied; pleased; to one's satisfaction
滿意度	degree of satisfaction
滿懷	to have one's heart filled with; (to collide) full on
滿手	handful
滿打滿算	taking everything into account (idiom); when all is said and done
滿招損，謙受益	(idiom) complacency leads to loss, modesty brings profit
滿擰	totally inconsistent; completely at odds
滿文	Manchurian written language
滿族	Manchu ethnic group
滿月	(of a baby) to reach one month of age
滿月酒	banquet to celebrate a baby reaching one month of age
滿服	at the end of the mourning period
滿期	to fall due; to come to the end of a term; to expire
滿格	(of battery level, signal level etc) at full capacity; at maximum strength
滿江紅	Man Jiang Hong (Chinese poems)
滿洲	Manchuria
滿洲國	Manchukuo
滿洲里市	Manzhouli, a county-level city in Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
滿清	Manchurian Qing (refers to the Qing dynasty, esp. at its decline, or as an anti-Qing slogan)
滿清政府	Manchurian Qing government
滿減	discount after reaching a minimum spend
滿溢	to be full to overflowing; to be brimming over with
滿滿	full; closely packed
滿滿當當	brim full; completely packed
滿滿登登	ample; extremely abundant
滿漢	Manchurian-Chinese (relations)
滿漢全席	the Manchu Han imperial feast, a legendary banquet in the Qing dynasty
滿潮	high tide; high water
滿當當	brim full; completely packed
滿登登	brim full; filled to overflowing
滿盈	full up
滿盤	a plateful; comprehensive; the full works (e.g. a banquet)
滿目	fills the eyes (of a beautiful view, scene of desolation etc)
滿目瘡痍	a scene of devastation meets the eye everywhere one looks (idiom)
滿眼	(of tears etc) filling the eyes
滿福堡	(Tw) McDonald's McMuffin or similar breakfast sandwich made with an English muffin
滿腔	one's heart filled with; full of (joy)
滿腔熱忱	full of enthusiasm
滿腹	filled with; preoccupied with
滿腹牢騷	lit. belly full of complaints (idiom); discontent
滿腹經綸	full of political wisdom (idiom); politically astute
滿臉	across one's whole face
滿臉生花	all smiles; beaming from ear to ear
滿臉風塵	lit. with a face full of dust; showing the hardships of travel (idiom)
滿舵	on full rudder; turning as sharply as possible
滿處	everywhere; all over the place
滿語	Manchurian language
滿貫	to win every trick in a card game; grand slam; fig. total success
滿足	to satisfy; to meet (the needs of); satisfied
滿足感	sense of satisfaction
滿身	covered all over
滿身塵埃	dusty
滿載	full to capacity; fully loaded
滿載而歸	(idiom) to return from a rewarding journey
滿速	full speed; at full speed
滿門	the whole family
滿門抄斬	to execute the whole family and confiscate their property
滿面	across one's whole face; (smiling) from ear to ear
滿面春風	(idiom) radiant with happiness; beaming
滿頭大汗	brow beaded with sweat; perspiring freely
滿額	the full amount; to fulfill the quota
滿點	full working hours; full marks; perfect score
漁	fisherman; to fish
漁人	fisherman
漁具	fishing gear
漁利	to make an unethical profit; benefits gained from others' conflict
漁場	fishing ground
漁夫	fisherman
漁婦	fisherwoman
漁撈	fishing (as a commercial activity)
漁業	fishing industry; fishery
漁樵	(literary) fishermen and woodcutters (used to refer to rustic people or a simple, pastoral lifestyle)
漁民	fisherman; fisher folk
漁汛	fishing season
漁汛期	fishing season
漁港	fishing port
漁獲	fish catch
漁獵	fishing and hunting; fig. to loot; to plunder
漁籠	fishing pot (trap)
漁網	fishing net
漁網襪	fishnet stockings; fishnets
漁線	fishing line
漁翁之利	(idiom) the advantage gained by a third party when two sides are in conflict
漁船	fishing boat
漁船隊	fishing fleet
漁輪	fishing vessel
漁陽	old place name (in Yan of Warring states, in modern Beijing city)
漁雕	(bird species of China) lesser fish eagle (Icthyophaga humilis)
漁鷗	(bird species of China) Pallas's gull (Ichthyaetus ichthyaetus)
漁鼓	percussion instrument in the form of a bamboo fish (traditionally used by Daoist priests)
漂	used in 漂亮[piao4 liang5]
漂亮	pretty; beautiful
漂亮話	fine-sounding but empty words
漂搖	swaying; tottering; unstable
漂染	to bleach and dye
漂泊	(of a boat) to float; to drift; to lie at anchor
漂洋	to cross the ocean
漂洗	to rinse (clothes)
漂流	to float on the current; to drift along or about; rafting
漂流瓶	message in a bottle
漂流者	drifter; whitewater rafter
漂浮	to float; to hover; to drift (also fig., to lead a wandering life)
漂白	to bleach; to whiten
漂白劑	bleach
漂白水	bleach
漂白粉	bleaching powder
漂礫	(geology) glacial erratic; rock transported by a glacier
漂移	to drift
漂綠	to greenwash
漂走	to float away; to drift; to be swept off
漂遊	drift
漂雷	floating mine
漂鷸	(bird species of China) wandering tattler (Tringa incana)
漆	paint; lacquer; to paint (furniture, walls etc)
漆器	lacquerware
漆布	varnished cloth; linoleum
漆彈	paintball (sports)
漆樹	lac tree (Rhus vernicifera)
漆樹科	Anacardiaceae, plant family including lac tree (Rhus vernicifera) 漆樹|漆树[qi1 shu4]
漆皮鞋	patent leather shoes
漆雕	carved or engraved lacquerware
漆黑	pitch-black
漆黑一團	pitch-black; (fig.) to be completely in the dark
漈	river bank
漉	strain liquids
漊	drizzle
漊水	Lou River in Hubei and Hunan
漎	a place where small streams flow into a large one
漏	to leak; to divulge; to leave out by mistake
漏勺	perforated spoon; strainer spoon; skimmer
漏嘴	to make an indiscreet remark
漏壺	water clock; clepsydra
漏夜	(literary) late at night
漏失	to lose sth due to leakage; to let sth slip through; a slip-up
漏掉	to miss; to leave out; to omit
漏斗	funnel
漏斗雲	funnel cloud
漏氣	to leak air or gas
漏水	(of pipes, ceilings, roofs etc) to leak water; to have a water leak
漏水轉渾天儀	water-driven armillary sphere (Zhang Heng's famous astronomical apparatus)
漏油	oil spill; oil leak; (fig.) boo! (opposite of 加油[jia1 you2])
漏洞	leak; hole; gap
漏洞百出	(of an argument, theory etc) full of flaws (idiom)
漏洩	a leak (e.g. of chemicals)
漏洩天機	to divulge the will of heaven (idiom); to leak a secret
漏稅	tax evasion
漏網之魚	(lit.) a fish that escaped the net (idiom)
漏脯充飢	(lit.) to eat rotten meat to assuage hunger (idiom)
漏鍋	colander; strainer; sieve
漏電	to leak electricity
漓	pattering (of rain); seep through
演	to perform (a play etc); to stage (a show)
演出	to act (in a play); to perform; to put on (a performance)
演出地點	performance place
演出者	performer
演劇	to perform a play
演化	to evolve; evolution
演化支	clade (biology)
演員	actor; actress; performer
演員陣容	cast (of a movie etc); lineup of performers; troupe
演唱	to sing (for an audience); vocal performance
演唱會	vocal recital or concert
演奏	to perform on a musical instrument
演奏者	performer; musician
演戲	to put on a play; to perform; fig. to pretend
演技	acting; performing skills
演播	broadcast performance; televised or podcast lecture
演播室	broadcasting studio
演替	succession (of changes in an ecological community)
演歌	enka (Japanese genre of sentimental ballads)
演武	to practice martial arts
演活	(of an actor) to bring (one's character) to life; to act brilliantly
演示	to demonstrate; to show; presentation
演示文稿	(PPT etc) presentation
演算	to perform calculations
演算法	algorithm (Tw)
演練	to drill; to practice
演繹	(of a story etc) to unfold; to play out; to develop (a technique etc)
演繹法	deductive reasoning
演義	to dramatize historical events; novel or play on historical theme
演習	(military, firefighting etc) (verb and noun) drill; exercise; maneuver
演藝	performing arts
演藝人員	entertainer; performer
演藝圈	show business
演藝界	the entertainment world; show business
演說	speech; to deliver a speech
演說者	orator; speaker
演講	to give a lecture; to make a speech
演講家	orator
演變	to develop; to evolve
演進	evolution; gradual forward progress
漕	to transport (esp. grain) by water; (literary) watercourse; canal
漕河	waterway used for the transportation of grain (in ancient times) (esp. the Grand Canal 大運河|大运河[Da4 Yun4 he2])
漕糧	grain transported by water (in ancient times)
漕運	(old) to transport by water; to ship grain as tax
漖	a tributary of a river (used in place names)
漘	shore
漙	heavy dew
漚	to steep; to macerate
漚凼	cesspool; compost pit
漚步	(Tw) dirty trick; unethical tactic (from Taiwanese 漚步, Tai-lo pr. [àu-pōo])
漚肥	to make fertilizer by steeping organic materials in water and leaving them to decompose
漜	mud
漠	desert; unconcerned
漠䳭	(bird species of China) desert wheatear (Oenanthe deserti)
漠不關心	not the least bit concerned; completely indifferent
漠北	Outer Mongolia (lit. north of the Gobi Desert)
漠南	Inner Mongolia (lit. south of the Gobi Desert)
漠河市	Mohe, a county-level city in Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
漠然	indifferent; apathetic; cold
漠然置之	to set to one side and ignore (idiom); quite indifferent
漠視	to ignore; to neglect; to treat with contempt
漢	Han ethnic group; Chinese (language); the Han dynasty (206 BC-220 AD)
漢中市	Hanzhong, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
漢人	Han Chinese person or people
漢他病毒	(Tw) (loanword) hantavirus
漢代	the Han dynasty (206 BC-220 AD)
漢元帝	Yuan Emperor, reign name of Han Dynasty emperor Liu Shi 劉奭|刘奭[Liu2 Shi4], (74-33 BC), reigned 48-33 BC
漢化	to sinicize; sinicization; (software) Chinese localization
漢南區	Hannan, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
漢口	Hankou, part of Wuhan 武漢|武汉 at the junction of Han river and Changjiang in Hubei
漢四郡	four Han commanderies in north Korea 108 BC-c. 300 AD
漢坦病毒	(loanword) hantavirus
漢城	Hanseong, former name of Seoul (capital of South Korea), replaced in 2005 with 首爾|首尔[Shou3 er3]
漢城特別市	Hanseong Special Metropolitan City, old name for Seoul, capital of Korea
漢堡	Hamburg (German city)
漢堡包	(loanword) hamburger
漢堡王	Burger King (fast food restaurant)
漢壽縣	Hanshou, a county in Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
漢奸	traitor (to China)
漢姓	a Han family name (surname)
漢娜	Hannah (name)
漢子	man; fellow; (dialect) husband
漢字	Chinese character(s)
漢字查字法	look-up method for Chinese characters
漢學	sinology; Chinese studies (in foreign schools)
漢學家	sinologist; scholar of Chinese
漢學系	institute of Sinology; faculty of Sinology
漢宣帝	Emperor Xuan (91-48 BC) of the Former Han Dynasty, reigned 74-48 BC
漢密爾頓	Hamilton (name); Hamilton, capital of Bermuda
漢尼拔	Hannibal (name); Hannibal Barca (247-183 BC), Carthaginian general
漢川市	Hanchuan, a county-level city in Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
漢拼	Hanyu Pinyin (abbr. for 漢語拼音|汉语拼音[Han4 yu3 Pin1 yin1])
漢拿山	Hallasan Mountain or Mount Halla, highest mountain in South Korea
漢文	Chinese written language; Chinese literature esp. as taught abroad
漢文帝	Emperor Wen of Han (202-157 BC), fourth Han emperor, personal name Liu Heng 劉恆|刘恒[Liu2 Heng2], reigned 180-157 BC
漢文帝劉恆	Liu Heng (202-157 BC), the fourth Han emperor Han Wendi, reigned 180-157 BC
漢斯	Hans (name); Reims (city in France)
漢族	Han ethnic group, the majority ethnic group in China
漢明帝	Emperor Ming of Han (28-75), Western Han Dynasty Emperor 58-75
漢書	History of the Former Han Dynasty, second of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], composed by Ban Gu 班固[Ban1 Gu4] in 82 during Eastern Han (later Han), 100 scrolls
漢服	traditional Han Chinese attire (including various styles of clothing worn by the Han ethnic group before the Qing Dynasty, and in the 21st century, revived as part of a cultural movement)
漢朝	Han Dynasty (206 BC-220 AD)
漢森	Hansen or Hanson (name)
漢武帝	Emperor Wu of the Han dynasty (141-87 BC)
漢民族	Han ethnic group
漢水	Han River (Hanshui)
漢江	Han River
漢沽	Hangu former district of Tianjin, now part of Binhai subprovincial district 濱海新區|滨海新区[Bin1 hai3 xin1 qu1]
漢沽區	Hangu former district of Tianjin, now part of Binhai subprovincial district 濱海新區|滨海新区[Bin1 hai3 xin1 qu1]
漢源縣	Hanyuan, a county in Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
漢濱區	Hanbin, a district of Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
漢獻帝	Emperor Xian of Han (181-234), the final Han emperor, set up by Dong Zhuo 董卓, reigned 189-220, forced to abdicate 220 by Cao Pi 曹丕
漢白玉	white marble; a type of white marble used for building and sculpting
漢簡	bamboo slip used for record keeping during the Han Dynasty
漢腔	Wuhan accent
漢臺區	Hantai, a district of Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
漢英	Chinese-English
漢英互譯	Chinese and English two-way translation
漢薩同盟	Hanseatic League
漢藏語系	Sino-Tibetan language family
漢語	Chinese language
漢語大字典	Hanyu Da Zidian, one of the most comprehensive Chinese character dictionaries with 54,678 (and later 60,370) entries, first published between 1986-1990
漢語大詞典	Hanyu Da Cidian, the largest Chinese dictionary, with over 375,000 word entries, first published 1986-1994
漢語拼音	Hanyu Pinyin, the romanization system used in the PRC since the 1960s
漢語水平考試	HSK (Chinese Proficiency Test)
漢諾威	Hanover
漢賊不兩立	lit. Shu Han 蜀漢|蜀汉[Shu3 Han4] and Cao Wei 曹魏[Cao2 Wei4] cannot coexist (idiom)
漢辦	abbr. for 國家漢辦|国家汉办[Guo2 jia1 Han4 ban4], Office of Chinese Language Council International
漢陰縣	Hanyin, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
漢陽區	Hanyang, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
漢靈帝	Emperor Ling of Han (156-189), reigned from 168 to 189
漢高祖	posthumous name of the first Han emperor Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦 (256 or 247-195 BC), reigned 202-195 BC
漣	ripple; tearful
漣水縣	Lianshui, a county in Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
漣源市	Lianyuan, a county-level city in Loudi City 婁底市|娄底市[Lou2 di3 Shi4], Hunan
漣漪	ripple
漣漪微漾	ripples; riffles
漤	to soak (fruits) in hot water or limewater to remove astringent taste
漦	go with current; mucus; spittle
漨	(name of an ancient river)
漩	whirlpool; eddy; also pr. [xuan4]
漩渦	whirlpool; eddy; vortex
漪	ripple
漫	free; unrestrained; to inundate
漫不經心	careless; heedless; absent-minded
漫不經意	careless; unconcerned
漫天	lit. to fill the whole sky; everywhere; as far as the eye can see
漫天要價	to ask for sky-high prices
漫天遍地	lit. to fill the whole sky and cover the land (idiom)
漫天遍野	lit. to fill the whole sky and cover the land; everywhere
漫天飛舞	(of snow etc) to fill the sky
漫展	comic convention; anime expo
漫山遍野	lit. covering the mountains and the plains (idiom)
漫應	to reply casually
漫改	adapted from a manga
漫步	to wander; to ramble; recreational hiking
漫步者	rambler; a person strolling about
漫溢	to overflow; to be brimming over
漫漫	long; endless; boundless
漫漫長夜	endless night (idiom); fig. long suffering
漫漶	(of writing etc) indistinct (due to water damage or wear)
漫無目的	aimless; at random
漫無邊際	extremely vast; boundless; limitless
漫畫	caricature; cartoon; Japanese manga
漫畫家	cartoon writer (from Japanese mangaka)
漫說	not to mention ... (i.e. in addition to sth)
漫遊	to travel around; to roam; (mobile telephony) roaming
漫長	very long; endless
漬	to soak; to be stained; stain
漭	vast; expansive (of water)
漯	used in 漯河[Luo4 he2] (the name of a place in Henan)
漯河市	Luohe, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
漰	noise of dashing waves
漱	to rinse one's mouth with water; to gargle
漱口	to rinse one's mouth; to gargle
漱口水	mouthwash
漱洗	to rinse the mouth and wash the face
漱流	to rinse one's mouth with river water; (fig.) to live a hermit's life
漲	to rise (of prices, rivers)
漲停	(of a stock price) to rise to the daily upper limit (resulting in a temporary halt in trading of the stock)
漲停板	daily upper limit on the price of a stock
漲價	to appreciate (in value); to increase in price
漲到	to go up; to rise
漲勢	rising trend; upward momentum (e.g. in prices)
漲奶	to have engorged breasts (after childbirth); to have swollen and painful breasts from excess milk
漲姿勢	Internet slang for 長知識|长知识[zhang3 zhi1 shi5]
漲幅	extent of a rise (in prices etc); amount of increase
漲水	rise of water level
漲滿	full to the point of overflowing (fluid, emotions etc)
漲潮	high tide; rising tide
漲粉	to get more fans; to gain followers
漲紅	to turn red (in the face); to flush (with embarrassment or anger)
漲落	(of water, prices etc) to rise and fall
漲跌	rise or fall in price
漲跌幅限制	limit up, limit down; limit on daily price variation
漲錢	inflation; salary raise
漲風	upward trend (in prices)
漳	Zhang river in Fujian
漳州市	Zhangzhou, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
漳平市	Zhangping, a county-level city in Longyan City 龍巖市|龙岩市[Long2 yan2 Shi4], Fujian
漳浦縣	Zhangpu, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
漳縣	Zhang County or Zhangxian, a county in Dingxi City 定西市[Ding4 xi1 Shi4], Gansu
漵	name of a river
漵浦縣	Xupu, a county in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
漶	(of writing, pictures etc) indistinct due to deterioration (water damage etc)
漷	clashing of two currents
漸	gradual; gradually
漸入佳境	(idiom) to gradually improve; to get better and better
漸凍人症	amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), aka motor neurone disease (MND)
漸凍症	amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; ALS
漸弱	to fade out; gradually weakening; diminuendo
漸快	to speed up gradually; faster and faster; (music) accelerando
漸慢	to slow down gradually; slower and slower; (music) decelerando
漸新世	Oligocene (geological epoch from 34m-24m years ago)
漸新統	Oligocene system (geology)
漸次	gradually; one by one
漸漸	gradually
漸稀	to thin out gradually; to become fainter and fainter
漸行漸遠	gradually proceed, gradually get further apart
漸變	gradual change; (graphic design) gradient
漸變色	color gradient
漸趨	to become more and more; to gradually become
漸近	to approach gradually
漸近線	(math.) asymptote
漸進	progress step by step; gradual progress; to move forward (slowly)
漹	(archaic) river name
漼	having the appearance of depth
漾	to overflow; to ripple; used in place names
漾濞彝族自治縣	Yangbi Yi Autonomous County, in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
漿	thick liquid; to starch
漿果	berry
漿洗	to wash and starch
漿硬	to starch; to stiffen cloth with starch
漿糊	paste; Taiwan pr. [jiang4 hu2]
漿紙	paper pulp
漿膜	serosa
潀	gather; flow into (water); sound of waters flowing together
潁	surname Ying; river in Henan and Anhui
潁上縣	Yingshang, a county in Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
潁州區	Yingzhou, a district of Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
潁東區	Yingdong, a district of Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
潁泉區	Yingquan, a district of Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
潎	rippling; pour
潏	to bubble up
潑	to splash; to spill; rough and coarse
潑冷水	to pour cold water on; (fig.) to dampen sb's enthusiasm
潑出去的水	spilt water; (fig.) sth that can not be retrieved; spilt milk
潑婦	shrew; vixen
潑婦罵街	shouting abuse in the street like a fishwife
潑掉	spill
潑水	to splash water
潑水節	Songkran (Thai New Year)
潑水難收	water once spilt cannot be retrieved (idiom); irreversible change
潑濺	to spatter
潑煙花	low-class prostitute
潑物	evil creature (curse word)
潑賤	base; worthless
潑賤人	slut; tramp (old)
潑辣	shrewish; pungent; forceful
潑髒水	(fig.) to sling mud at; to smear; to slander
潔	clean
潔具	bathroom fittings (washbasin, bathtub, toilet etc)
潔操	unimpeachable conduct; noble behavior; spotless personal integrity
潔本	expurgated edition
潔淨	clean; to cleanse
潔淨無瑕	clean and spotless
潔牙	(dentistry) to perform or undergo scaling (removal of dental plaque and calculus)
潔癖	mysophobia; obsession with cleanliness; extreme fastidiousness
潔白	spotlessly white; pure white
潔西卡	Jessica (name)
潔西卡·艾芭	Jessica Alba, American actress
潔身自好	clean-living and honest (idiom); to avoid immorality
潔面乳	cleansing lotion
潔面露	cleansing lotion
潔食	kosher
潕	river in Henan
潗	friendly; harmonious
潘	(archaic) water in which rice has been washed
潘基文	Ban Ki Moon (1944-), Korean diplomat, UN secretary-general 2007-2016
潘塔納爾	Pantanal (wetland area in Brazil)
潘多拉	Pandora
潘多拉魔盒	a Pandora's box
潘太克斯	Pentax (brand name)
潘婷	Pantene (hair products brand)
潘岳	Pan Yue (247-300), later known as 潘安[Pan1 An1], prominent Western Jin poet, also famous for his good looks, such that his name became a byword for "extremely handsome man"
潘斯	(surname) Pence
潘朵拉	Pandora
潘趣酒	(loanword) punch (drink)
潘通	Pantone color system
潘金蓮	Pan Jinlian (name lit. Golden Lotus), heroine of Ming dynasty vernacular novel Jinpingmei or the Golden Lotus 金瓶梅
潘集區	Panji, a district of Huainan City 淮南市[Huai2 nan2 Shi4], Anhui
潚	sound of rain and wind
潛	hidden; secret; latent
潛伏	to hide; to cover up; to conceal
潛伏期	incubation period (of disease)
潛入	to submerge; to infiltrate; to steal into
潛力	potential; latent capacity
潛力股	stock that has potential to increase in value
潛在	hidden; potential; latent
潛在威脅	potential threat; potential menace
潛在媒介	potential vector
潛山市	Qianshan, a county-level city in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
潛影	to hide; latent image (in photography)
潛心	to concentrate fully on sth; single-minded
潛意識	unconscious mind; subconscious mind; subconsciousness
潛望鏡	periscope
潛水	to dive; to go under water; (in an online forum) to lurk
潛水刀	dive knife
潛水員	diver; frogman
潛水器	submersible
潛水夫病	bends
潛水夫症	bends
潛水服	diving suit; wetsuit
潛水者	(underwater) diver
潛水艇	a submarine
潛水衣	diving suit
潛江	Qianjiang sub-prefecture level city in Hubei
潛江市	Qianjiang sub-prefecture level city in Hubei
潛沒	to submerge; to subduct (of tectonic plates)
潛泳	diving; esp. skin diving
潛熱	latent heat
潛神默記	to devote oneself to a task in silence (idiom)
潛移	intangible changes; unnoticed transformation
潛移默化	imperceptible influence; to influence secretly
潛育土	gleysol (soil taxonomy)
潛能	potential; hidden capability
潛臺詞	unspoken dialogue in a play, left for the audience to infer; subtext
潛艇	a submarine
潛艇堡	submarine sandwich
潛艦	a submarine
潛藏	hidden beneath the surface; buried and concealed
潛行	to slink; to move stealthily; to advance through the water
潛規則	unspoken rules (usually ones that codify improper behaviors such as leveraging guanxi to get favorable treatment, or coercing employees for sexual favors)
潛質	potential
潛蹤	in hiding
潛近	to sneak up on
潛逃	to abscond; to slink off
潛進	to sneak in; to infiltrate
潛鳥	loon (bird of genus Gavia)
潝	to agree
潞	name of a river; surname Lu
潞城區	Lucheng, a district of Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
潞州區	Luzhou, a district of Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
潟	saline land; salt marsh
潟湖	lagoon
潠	spurt out of the mouth
潢	dye paper; lake; pond
潢川縣	Huangchuan, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
潤	moist; glossy; sleek; to moisten; to lubricate
潤唇膏	chapstick; lip balm
潤學	(neologism) (slang) study of how to flee from adverse conditions in China by emigrating
潤州區	Runzhou, a district of Zhenjiang City 鎮江市|镇江市[Zhen4 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangsu
潤格	(old) scale of fees charged by a painter or calligrapher
潤滑	smooth; oily; sleek
潤滑劑	lubricant
潤滑油	lubricating oil
潤滑液	lubricant
潤澤	moist
潤濕	to moisten (e.g. of rain); to wet
潤筆	remuneration for literary or artistic work
潤肺	to moisten the lungs; to make expectoration easy (medicine)
潤腸	to ease constipation (TCM)
潤腸通便	to cure constipation with laxatives
潤膚乳	body lotion; body shampoo
潤膚膏	moisturizing cream
潤膚霜	moisturizer
潤膚露	body lotion
潤色	to polish (a piece of writing)
潤資	remuneration for literary or artistic work
潤飾	to adorn; to embellish
潤餅	soft mixed vegetable and meat roll-up
潤髮乳	hair conditioner
潤髮液	hair conditioner
潤髮露	hair conditioner
潦	used in 潦草[liao2 cao3]; used in 潦倒[liao2 dao3]
潦倒	down on one's luck; in straitened circumstances; disappointed; frustrated
潦草	slipshod; careless; slovenly; (of handwriting) scrawly; illegible
潭	deep pool; pond; pit (dialect)
潭奧	profound; deep
潭子	deep natural pond
潭底	bottom of a (deep) pond
潭府	abyss; imposing dwellings and spacious courtyard; your residence
潭影	reflection in a deep pond
潭柘寺	Tanzhe Temple
潭水	deep water
潭腿	Tantui, a northern school of martial arts boxing
潮	tide; damp; moist; humid; fashionable; trendy
潮人	trendsetter
潮位	tide level
潮南區	Chaonan, a district of Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
潮吹	female ejaculation
潮安區	Chao'an, a district of Chaozhou City 潮州市[Chao2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
潮州	Chaozhou, variant of Minnan dialect 閩南語|闽南语[Min3 nan2 yu3] spoken in east Guangdong
潮州市	Chaozhou, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
潮氣	humidity; moisture
潮水	tide
潮汐	tide
潮汐能	tidal power; tidal energy
潮汐電站	tidal power station
潮汕	Chaoshan, region in the east of Guangdong, encompassing the cities of Chaozhou 潮州市[Chao2 zhou1 Shi4] and Shantou 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], with its own distinct language (Chaoshan Min 潮汕話|潮汕话[Chao2 shan4 hua4]) and culture
潮汕話	Chaoshan or Teo-Swa, a Southern Min language spoken by the Teochew people of the Chaoshan region 潮汕[Chao2 shan4]
潮汛	spring tide
潮流	tide; current; trend
潮湧	to surge like the tide
潮濕	damp; moist
潮熱	hot flush
潮玩	art toy; designer toy (abbr. for 潮流玩具[chao2 liu2 wan2 ju4])
潮男	metrosexual
潮紅	flush
潮蟲	woodlouse (suborder Oniscidea within the order Isopoda)
潮解	to deliquesce; deliquescence (chemistry)
潮解性	deliquescent
潮語	fashionable word or phrase; abbr. for 潮流用語|潮流用语[chao2 liu2 yong4 yu3]
潮間帶	intertidal zone
潮陽區	Chaoyang, a district of Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
潯	name of a river; steep bank
潯陽區	Xunyang, a district of Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
潰	(bound form) (of floodwaters) to break through a dam or dike
潰不成軍	(idiom) (of troops) to be utterly routed and dispersed
潰兵	routed troops; defeated and dispersed troops
潰壩	(of a dam) to be breached; to burst
潰敗	to be utterly defeated; to be routed
潰散	(of troops) to be routed and dispersed
潰敵	to rout the enemy
潰決	(of a dike or dam) to burst
潰爛	to fester; to ulcerate
潰瘍	ulcer; to ulcerate
潰膿	(of a sore etc) to fester; to ulcerate
潰軍	routed troops
潰逃	to flee in disorder
潲	driving rain; to sprinkle
潲水	(dialect) slop; swill
潵	name of a river in Hebei Province
潷	to pour off (the liquid); to decant; to strain off
潸	tearfully
潸然淚下	to shed silent tears (idiom)
潺	flow; trickle (of water)
潺潺	murmur; babble (sound of water)
潼	high; name of a pass
潼南區	Tongnan, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
潼關縣	Tongguan, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
潽	to boil over
潾	clear (as of water)
潿	still water
澀	astringent; tart; acerbity
澀味	acerbic (taste); astringent
澀脈	sluggish pulse
澃	clear
澄	(of liquid) to settle; to become clear
澄城縣	Chengcheng, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
澄江市	Chengjiang, a county-level city in Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
澄海	Sea of Serenity (Mare Serenitatis, on the moon)
澄海區	Chenghai, a district of Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
澄淵	clear, deep water
澄清	clear (of liquid); limpid; to clarify
澄澈	limpid; crystal clear
澄粉	wheat starch
澄邁	Chengmai County, Hainan
澄邁縣	Chengmai County, Hainan
澄麵	wheat starch
澆	to pour liquid; to irrigate (using waterwheel); to water
澆冷水	to pour cold water; fig. to discourage
澆水	to water (plants etc)
澆注	to pour (molten metal, concrete etc) into a mold
澆灌	to water; to irrigate
澆築	to pour (concrete etc)
澆花	to water the plants; to water the garden
澆鑄	to cast (molten metal); to mold
澆頭	topping (mixture of ingredients and sauce poured over noodles or rice, esp. in Shanghainese cuisine)
澇	flooded
澈	clear (water); thorough
澉	place name; wash
澌	drain dry; to exhaust
澍	moisture; timely rain
澎	used in 澎湃[peng2 pai4]; Taiwan pr. [peng1]
澎湃	(of the sea etc) surging; tempestuous
澎湖	Penghu county (Pescadores Islands), Taiwan
澎湖列島	Pescadores Islands, Taiwan
澎湖島	Pescadores Islands, Penghu county, Taiwan
澎湖縣	Penghu county (Pescadores Islands), Taiwan
澎湖群島	Penghu or Pescadores, archipelago of 90 islands to west of Taiwan
澐	river waves
澒	vast; infinite
澔	grand; vast (of water)
澗	mountain stream
澗壑	valley; ravine
澗峽	a gorge
澗水	mountain stream
澗流	mountain stream; stream in a valley
澗溪	mountain stream; stream in a valley
澗西區	Jianxi, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
澠	used in 澠池|渑池[Mian3 chi2] (the name of a place in Henan)
澠池縣	Mianchi, a county in Sanmenxia City 三門峽市|三门峡市[San1 men2 xia2 Shi4], Henan
澡	bath
澡堂	public baths
澡塘	communal bath; common pool in bath house
澡巾	scrub mitt; shower glove
澡盆	bath tub
澡罐	tub (used for ablutions in a monastery)
澡身浴德	to bathe the body and cleanse virtue (idiom); to improve oneself by meditation
澤	pool; pond; (of metals etc) luster
澤塔	zeta (Greek letter Ζζ)
澤州縣	Zezhou, a county in Jincheng City 晉城市|晋城市[Jin4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
澤布呂赫	Zeebrugge (port city in Belgium)
澤庫縣	Zêkog, a county in Huangnan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 黃南藏族自治州|黄南藏族自治州[Huang2 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
澤普縣	Poskam, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
澤瀉	common water plantain (Alisma plantago-aquatica)
澤蘭	Eupatorium, e.g. Japanese bog orchid (Eupatorium japonicum Thunb)
澤西	Jersey (British Crown Dependency)
澤西島	Jersey Island (largest of the Channel Islands)
澤鷸	(bird species of China) marsh sandpiper (Tringa stagnatilis)
澥	(of porridge etc) to become watery
澦	(place name in Sichuan)
澧	Lishui River in north Hunan, flowing into Lake Dongting 洞庭湖[Dong4 ting2 Hu2]
澧水	Lishui river in north Hunan, flowing into Lake Dongting 洞庭湖
澧縣	Li County or Lixian, a county in Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
澨	bank; shore; name of a river
澫	overflow of water; spreading
澬	to rain continuously
澮	drain; stream
澰	(literary) to moisten; to wet; to soak in water
澱	to form sediment; to precipitate
澱山湖	Dianshan Lake in Shanghai
澱積	(geology) to illuviate
澱積物	(geology) illuvial material
澱粉	starch; amylum (C6H10O5)n
澱粉腸	starchy sausage (low-cost sausage made with a high proportion of starch and little meat)
澱粉酶	amylase
澳	Macao (abbr. for 澳門|澳门[Ao4 men2])
澳元	Australian dollar
澳南沙錐	(bird species of China) Latham's snipe (Gallinago hardwickii)
澳大利亞	Australia
澳大利亞國立大學	Australian National University (ANU), Canberra
澳大利亞洲	(geography) the Australian continent (Australia, Tasmania, and New Guinea)
澳大利亞聯邦	Commonwealth of Australia
澳大利亞首都特區	Australian Capital Territory
澳寶	opal (abbr. for 澳洲寶石|澳洲宝石[Ao4 zhou1 bao3 shi2])
澳幣	Australian dollar
澳式	Australian-style; Macanese-style
澳式橄欖球	Australian rules football; Aussie rules
澳新界	Australasian realm
澳新軍團	Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC)
澳新軍團日	Anzac Day
澳洲	Australia
澳洲堅果	macadamia nut
澳洲小鸚鵡	lorikeet
澳洲廣播電臺	Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC), Australian state-run broadcaster
澳洲野犬	dingo (Canis dingo)
澳洲鰻鱺	short-finned eel (Anguilla australis)
澳紐	Australia and New Zealand
澳網	Australian Open (tennis tournament)
澳門	Macao or Macau, special administrative region (SAR) of the PRC (short name 澳[Ao4])
澳門國際機場	Macau International Airport
澳門市	Municipality of Macau
澳門立法會	Legislative Council of Macao
澳際	Aoji, education agent
澴	to return (of waves)
澶	still (as of water); still water
澹	tranquil; placid; quiet
澼	bleach; to clean
澽	(name of a river in Shaanxi Province)
激	to arouse; to incite; to excite
激光	laser
激光二極管	laser diode
激光唱片	compact disk; CD
激光器	laser
激光打印機	laser printer
激光筆	laser pointer
激光雷達	lidar
激凸	protruding nipples or bulging penis (contours of intimate body parts visible through clothing)
激動	to move emotionally; to stir up (emotions); to excite
激勵	to encourage; to urge; motivation
激勵機制	incentive mechanism; incentives
激化	to intensify
激增	to increase rapidly; to shoot up
激奮	aroused; excited
激子	exciton (physics)
激將	to spur sb into action by making negative remarks
激將法	indirect, psychological method of getting sb to do as one wishes (e.g. questioning whether they are up to the task)
激怒	to infuriate; to enrage; to exasperate
激情	passion; fervor; enthusiasm
激憤	to stir up emotions; furious; angry
激戰	to fight fiercely; fierce battle
激打	laser printer; abbr. for 激光打印機|激光打印机[ji1 guang1 da3 yin4 ji1]
激昂	impassioned; worked up
激波	shock wave
激活	to activate
激流	torrent; torrential current; whitewater
激流回旋	canoe slalom
激浪	Mountain Dew
激濁揚清	lit. drain away filth and bring in fresh water (idiom); fig. dispel evil and usher in good
激烈	(of competition or fighting) intense; fierce; (of pain) acute
激發	to arouse; to stimulate; (physics) to excite
激盪	to rage; to dash; to surge
激素	hormone
激蕩	to rage; to dash; to surge
激賞	to be full of admiration
激贊	to heap praise on
激起	to arouse; to evoke; to cause
激越	intense; loud
激進	radical; extreme; extremist
激進主義	radicalism
激進分子	radical; extremist
激進化	radicalization; to radicalize
激進武裝	armed extremists
激酶	kinase (biochemistry)
激靈	to quiver
濁	turbid; murky; impure
濁世	the world in chaos; troubled times; the mortal world (Buddhism)
濁塞音	(linguistics) voiced stop
濁度	turbidity
濁流	turbid flow; muddy waters; fig. a contemptible person
濁積岩	turbidite (geology)
濁臭熏天	stinks to high heaven
濁輔音	voiced consonant (linguistics)
濁酒	unfiltered rice wine
濁音	(phonetics) voiced sound; sonant
濂	name of a river in Hunan
濂溪區	Lianxi, a district of Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
濃	concentrated; dense; strong (smell etc)
濃厚	dense; thick (fog, clouds etc); to have a strong interest in
濃墨重彩	thick and heavy in colors
濃妝	heavy makeup and gaudy dress
濃妝艷抹	to apply makeup conspicuously (idiom)
濃密	thick; murky
濃度	concentration (percentage of dissolved material in a solution)
濃淡	shade (of a color, i.e. light or dark)
濃湯	thick soup; puree
濃烈	strong (taste, flavor, smell)
濃煙	thick smoke
濃眉大眼	thick eyebrows and big eyes
濃稠	thick; dense and creamy
濃縮	to concentrate; to condense; (nuclear energy) to enrich
濃縮咖啡	espresso
濃縮鈾	enriched uranium
濃艷	(of colors) garish; rich
濃郁	rich; strong; heavy (fragrance)
濃重	dense; thick; strong
濃集	to concentrate; to enrich
濃集鈾	enriched uranium
濃霧	thick fog
濃香	strong fragrance; pungent
濆	edge of water
濇	grating (of surfaces)
濈	many
濉	name of a river
濉溪縣	Suixi, a county in Huaibei City 淮北市[Huai2 bei3 Shi4], Anhui
濊	vast; expansive (as of water)
濊貊	Yemaek, ancient ethnic group of Manchuria and Korea, precursors of Korean Goguryeo kingdom
濋	name of an ancient river (in present-day Dingtao County 定陶縣|定陶县[Ding4 tao2 Xian4], Shandong)
濍	(onom.) sound of water
濔	many; numerous
濕	moist; wet
濕吻	French kiss
濕地	wetland
濕婆	Shiva (Hindu deity)
濕巾	wet wipe; towelette
濕度	humidity level
濕氣	moisture; humidity; athlete's foot
濕溫	damp heat; summer fever (TCM)
濕滑	(of floors, roads etc) wet and slippery
濕漉漉	damp; clammy; dripping wet
濕潤	moist
濕潤劑	moistener; wetting agent
濕熱	(of weather) hot and humid; muggy; (TCM) damp-heat
濕疣	condyloma (genital wart of viral origin); Condyloma acuminatum
濕疹	eczema
濕答答	soaking wet
濕衣	wetsuit
濕透	drenched; wet through
濕黏	clammy
濘	muddy
濙	used in 汫濙|汫𣸨[jing3 ying2]
濚	(archaic) (of water) to swirl; to eddy; (used in place names)
濛	drizzle; mist
濛鬆雨	(dialect) drizzle; light rain
濜	river in Hubei province
濞	used in place names
濟	used in place names associated with the Ji River 濟水|济水[Ji3 Shui3]
濟事	(usually used in the negative) to be of help or use
濟公	Jigong or Daoji (1130-1207), Southern Song Dynasty Buddhist monk
濟助	to relieve and help
濟南市	Jinan, sub-provincial city and capital of Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
濟危	to help people in distress
濟危扶困	to help people in difficulty and bring relief to the needy (idiom)
濟困扶危	to help those in distress (idiom)
濟寧市	Jining, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
濟州	Jeju Island special autonomous province (Cheju Island), South Korea, a World Heritage site
濟州島	Jeju Island special autonomous province, South Korea, a World Heritage site
濟州特別自治道	Jeju island special autonomous province, South Korea, a World Heritage site
濟急	to give relief (material)
濟水	Ji River, former river of north-eastern China which disappeared after the Yellow River flooded in 1852
濟源	Jiyuan directly administered city in Henan
濟源市	Jiyuan directly administered city in Henan
濟濟	large number of people
濟濟一堂	to congregate in one hall (idiom); to gather under one roof
濟貧	to help the poor
濟陽區	Jiyang, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
濠	trench
濠江區	Haojiang, a district of Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
濡	dilatory; to moisten
濡忍	compliant; submissive
濡染	to infect; to influence; to dip (in ink)
濡毫	to dip the pen into ink; to write
濡沫涸轍	to help each other out in hard times (idiom)
濡濕	to moisten
濤	big wave; Taiwan pr. [tao2]
濩	cook; dashing of water
濫	overflowing; excessive; indiscriminate
濫交	to fall into bad company; to make acquaintances indiscriminately
濫伐	to denude; illegal logging; forest clearance
濫刑	indiscriminate punishment
濫套子	platitude; pointless talk
濫好人	sb who tries to be on good terms with everyone
濫情	fickle in love; sentimentality
濫權	to abuse one's authority; to misuse power
濫殺	to kill indiscriminately; to massacre
濫殺無辜	willfully slaughter the innocent (idiom)
濫漫	arbitrary; indiscriminate
濫用	to misuse; to abuse
濫用權力	abuse of power
濫用職權	abuse of power
濫砍濫伐	wanton destruction of forested lands
濫竽	indiscriminately included in company (without any qualification)
濫竽充數	lit. to play the yu 竽 mouth organ to make up numbers (idiom); fig. to make up the numbers with inferior products
濫罵	to hurl abuse
濫觴	lit. floating wine goblets on a stream
濫調	hackneyed talk; platitude
濮	name of a river; surname Pu
濮陽市	Puyang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
濮陽縣	Puyang, a county in Puyang City 濮陽市|濮阳市[Pu2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
濯	to wash; to cleanse of evil
濯濯	bare and bald (of mountains); bright and brilliant; fat and sleek
濯盥	to wash oneself
濯足	to wash one's feet
濰	name of a river
濰坊市	Weifang, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
濰城區	Weicheng, a district of Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
濱	(bound form) water's edge; bank; shore
濱城區	Bincheng, a district of Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
濱州市	Binzhou, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
濱松	Hamamatsu (city in Japan)
濱江	along the bank of a river; riverside
濱江區	Binjiang, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
濱海	coastal; bordering the sea
濱海新區	Binhai New District, subprovincial district of Tianjin
濱海縣	Binhai, a county in Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
濱海邊疆區	Primorsky Krai (Russian territory whose administrative center is Vladivostok 符拉迪沃斯托克)
濱湖區	Binhu, a district of Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
濱田	Hamada (name)
濱田靖一	HAMADA Yasukazu (1955-), Japanese defense minister from 2008
濲	name of a river in Hunan
濺	to splash
濺射	sputtering
濺灑	to spill; to splatter; to splash
濺落	(of a spacecraft) to splash down
濺開	splash
濼	name of a river
濾	to strain; to filter
濾光鏡	(photography) filter
濾出	to filter out
濾嘴	cigarette filter
濾器	filter; strainer
濾塵器	dust filter
濾壓壺	French press; press pot
濾毒通風裝置	filtration equipment
濾泡	follicle
濾波	to filter electric signals
濾波器	signal filter
濾液	filtrate
濾清	to filter and purify
濾清器	a filter
濾盆	colander
濾砂	filter sand
濾紙	filter paper
濾網	filter; a sieve
濾色鏡	color filter
濾芯	filter cartridge; filter
濾過	to filter
濾鍋	colander
濾鏡	(photography) filter
濾除	to filter out
濾餅	filtrate; solid residue produced by a filter
瀁	ripples
瀂	(used in place names)
瀅	clear; limpid (of water)
瀆	disrespectful; (literary) ditch
瀆職	to engage in malfeasance; derelict in duty
瀉	to flow out swiftly; to flood; a torrent
瀉劑	laxative
瀉肚	to have diarrhea
瀉藥	laxative
瀉鹽	Epsom salts
瀋	short name for 瀋陽|沈阳[Shen3 yang2]
瀋河區	Shenhe, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
瀋陽市	Shenyang, sub-provincial city and capital of Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
瀋陽故宮	Mukden Palace, aka Shenyang Imperial Palace, the main imperial palace during the early years of the Qing dynasty (1625-1644), a secondary palace in subsequent years, now a museum
瀌	copious (of rain or snow)
瀍	Chanshui river in Henan
瀍水	the Chanshui river in Henan
瀍河	Chan River in Henan province 河南[He2 nan2]
瀍河回族區	Chanhe Hui District, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
瀏	clear; deep (of water); swift
瀏覽	to skim over; to browse
瀏覽器	browser (software)
瀏覽軟件	a web browser
瀏覽量	(website) traffic; page views; volume of website traffic
瀏陽市	Liuyang, a county-level city in Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
瀑	shower (rain)
瀑布	waterfall
瀔	river name in Henan province
瀕	to approach; to border on; near
瀕危	endangered (species); in imminent danger; critically ill
瀕危物種	endangered species
瀕危野生動植物種國際貿易公約	Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
瀕於	near to; approaching (collapse)
瀕死	nearing death; on the point of demise; approaching extinction
瀕河	bordering a river; riparian
瀕海	coastal; bordering the sea
瀕滅	on the brink of extinction
瀕臨	on the edge of; (fig.) on the verge of; close to
瀕近	on the brink
瀘	old name of a river in Jiangxi; place name
瀘定橋	Luding Bridge over Dadu river 大渡河[Da4 du4 he2] in Sichuan, built by Kangxi in 1706, linking Luding county Sichuan Luding county 瀘定縣|泸定县[Lu2 ding4 xian4] with Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州|甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
瀘定縣	Luding, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
瀘州市	Luzhou, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
瀘水市	Lushui, a county-level city in Nujiang Lisu Autonomous Prefecture 怒江傈僳族自治州[Nu4 jiang1 Li4 su4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
瀘沽湖	Lugu Lake, alpine lake on the border of Yunnan and Sichuan
瀘溪縣	Luxi, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
瀘縣	Lu County or Luxian, a county in Luzhou City 瀘州市|泸州市[Lu2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
瀘西縣	Luxi, a county in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
瀚	ocean; vastness
瀛	ocean
瀛洲	Yingzhou, easternmost of three fabled islands in Eastern sea, home of immortals and source of elixir of immortality
瀛臺	Yingtai, artificial island in Zhongnanhai 中南海[Zhong1 nan2 hai3], now serves as the site to host national banquets and receptions
瀝	to drip; to strain or filter; a trickle
瀝乾	to drain
瀝水架	dish rack
瀝青	asphalt; bitumen; pitch
瀝青鈾礦	pitchblende (uranium ore)
瀞	(archaic) clean
瀟	(of water) deep and clear
瀟湘	other name of the Xiangjiang river 湘江[Xiang1 jiang1] in Hunan province
瀟瀟	(of wind and rain) howling and pounding; (of light rain) pattering
瀟瀟細雨	soft, misty rain
瀟灑	confident and at ease; free and easy
瀠	eddy; small river
瀡	slippery
瀣	mist; vapor
瀦	pool; pond
瀦留	retention (medicine)
瀧	Shuang river in Hunan and Guangdong (modern Wu river 武水)
瀧水	Shuang river in Hunan and Guangdong (modern Wu river 武水)
瀧澤	Takizawa or Takesawa (Japanese name)
瀧船	boat or raft adapted to handle rapids; white-water raft
瀨	name of a river; rushing of water
瀰	brimming or overflowing
瀰漫星雲	diffuse nebula
瀱	(literary) spring water gushing out
瀲	full of water; trough
瀳	to arrive (of water)
瀵	name of a river; valley vapor
瀹	to cleanse; to boil
瀺	sound of water
瀼	dewy
瀾	swelling water
瀾滄拉祜族自治縣	Lancang Lahu Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
瀾滄江	Lancang River, the upper course (in southwestern China) of the Mekong River 湄公河[Mei2 gong1 He2]
灃	rainy; place name in Shaanxi
灃水	Feng River in Shaanxi 陝西|陕西[Shan3 xi1], tributary of Wei River 渭水[Wei4 Shui3]
灄	name of a river
灈	ancient name of a river in Henan
灉	name of a river; sluice
灋	law
灌	to irrigate; to pour; to install (software)
灌區	area under irrigation
灌南縣	Guannan, a county in Lianyungang City 連雲港市|连云港市[Lian2 yun2 gang3 Shi4], Jiangsu
灌叢	scrub; shrubland; undergrowth
灌木	bush; shrub
灌木叢	shrub; shrubbery
灌木林	shrubbery; low wood
灌水	to irrigate; to pour water into
灌注	to pour or inject (a liquid or substance) into sth
灌渠	irrigation channel
灌溉	to irrigate
灌溉渠	irrigation channel
灌漿	grouting; (of grain) to be in the milk; to form a vesicle (medicine)
灌濯	to wash; to rinse
灌站	pumping station in irrigation system
灌籃	slam dunk
灌米湯	to flatter; to butter sb up
灌腸	sausage with a starchy filling
灌製	to record (songs, albums, CDs etc)
灌輸	to imbue with; to inculcate; to instill into
灌迷魂湯	to butter sb up; to try to impress sb
灌酒	to force sb to drink alcohol
灌醉	to fuddle; to befuddle; to inebriate
灌鉛	to weight sth with lead; (of a die) loaded
灌錄	to record (audio)
灌陽縣	Guanyang, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
灌雲縣	Guanyun, a county in Lianyungang City 連雲港市|连云港市[Lian2 yun2 gang3 Shi4], Jiangsu
灑	to sprinkle; to spray; to spill
灑家	(archaic) I; me (used by males during the Song and Yuan dynasties)
灑布	to spread
灑水	to sprinkle
灑水機	sprinkler
灑水車	sprinkler truck
灑滿	to sprinkle over sth
灑狗血	to overreact; melodramatic
灑脫	free and at ease; natural; unconstrained
灑落	to fall downward in a scattered, lightly sprinkled manner (as light, petals, leaves etc)
灒	to spatter, to splash, to scatter
灕	name of a river
灕江	River Li, Guangxi
灖	(used to describe flowing water)
灘	beach; shoal; rapids
灘塗	mudflat
灘頭	beach; sand bank
灘頭堡	beachhead (military)
灝	vast (of water)
灞	name of a river
灞橋區	Baqiao, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
灢	muddy; thick, muddy water
灣	bay; gulf; to cast anchor
灣仔	Wan Chai district of Hong Kong
灣沚區	Wanzhi, a district of Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
灣環	twisting river
灤	river and county in Hebei Province
灤南縣	Luannan, a county in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
灤州市	Luanzhou, a county-level city in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
灤平縣	Luanping, a county in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
灤河	Luan River
灥	a group of springs
灩	tossing of billows
灪	(literary) (of waves) huge
火	fire; urgent; ammunition
火上加油	to add oil to the fire (idiom); fig. to aggravate a situation
火上澆油	to pour oil on the fire (idiom); fig. to aggravate a situation
火中取栗	lit. to pull chestnuts out of the fire (idiom)
火併	(of rival gangs or armed factions etc) to engage in internecine violence; to have an open fight; to clash on the streets; to have a shootout
火候	heat control; (fig.) mastery; (fig.) crucial moment
火光	flame; blaze
火兒	fire; fury; angry
火冒三丈	to get really angry
火冠雀	(bird species of China) fire-capped tit (Cephalopyrus flammiceps)
火刑	execution by fire; burning at the stake
火力	fire; firepower
火力發電	thermal power generation
火力發電廠	fired power plant (i.e. fired by coal, oil or gas)
火勢	intensity and spread of a fire
火化	to cremate; to incinerate
火化場	crematorium
火印	branded mark; brand
火器	gunpowder weapon (esp. firearm)
火地群島	Tierra del Fuego, Patagonia
火坑	pit of fire; fig. living hell
火堆	bonfire; to open fire
火場	the scene of a fire
火塘	indoor fire pit
火大	to get mad; to be very angry
火奴魯魯	Honolulu, capital of Hawaii; also called 檀香山
火尾太陽鳥	(bird species of China) fire-tailed sunbird (Aethopyga ignicauda)
火尾希鶥	(bird species of China) red-tailed minla (Minla ignotincta)
火尾綠鶥	(bird species of China) fire-tailed myzornis (Myzornis pyrrhoura)
火山	volcano
火山口	volcanic crater
火山學	volcanology
火山岩	volcanic rock
火山島	volcanic island
火山帶	volcanic belt
火山毛	(geology) Pele's hair
火山活動	volcanic activity; volcanism
火山灰	volcanic ash
火山灰土	andosol (soil taxonomy)
火山爆發	volcanic eruption
火山爆發指數	volcanic explosivity index (VEI)
火山碎屑流	pyroclastic flow
火山礫	lapillus; lapilli
火山豆	macadamia nut
火影忍者	Naruto, manga and anime series
火德星君	spirit of the planet Mars
火急	extremely urgent
火成	(geology) igneous; volcanic (rock)
火成岩	igneous rock (geology); volcanic rock
火成碎屑	pyroclastic
火把	torch
火把節	Torch Festival
火控	fire control (gunnery)
火摺子	traditional portable firelighter (bamboo tube of smoldering tinder)
火斑鳩	(bird species of China) red collared dove; red turtle dove (Streptopelia tranquebarica)
火星	spark (from a fire)
火星人	Martian
火星哥	nickname of American singer Bruno Mars
火星子	(coll.) spark; ember
火星快車	Mars Express, a European Space Agency spacecraft launched in 2003
火星撞地球	clash that leaves both sides shattered
火星文	lit. Martian language
火曜日	Tuesday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
火柱	column of flame
火柴	match (for lighting fire)
火柴人	stick figure; stick person
火槍	firearms (in historical context)
火槍手	gunman; musketeer
火樹銀花	display of fireworks and lanterns
火氣	anger; internal heat (TCM)
火油	(dialect) kerosene
火流星	(astronomy) bolide; fireball
火浣布	asbestos cloth
火海	a sea of flames
火湖	burning lake; lake of burning sulfur; inferno (in Christian mythology)
火災	serious fire (in a city or a forest etc)
火炎焱燚	hot (i.e. popular) (emphatic form of 火[huo3]) (neologism c. 2016)
火炬	(flaming) torch
火炬手	(lit. and fig.) torchbearer
火炭	live coal; ember; burning coals
火炮	cannon; gun; artillery
火烈鳥	flamingo
火焰	blaze; flame
火焰噴射器	flamethrower
火焰山	Mountain of Flames of legend; fig. insurmountable obstacle
火熱	fiery; burning; fervent
火燎	to singe; to scorch
火燒	to set fire to; to burn down; burning hot
火燒火燎	restless with anxiety; to feel unbearably painful or hot
火燒眉毛	lit. the fire burns one's eyebrows (idiom); fig. desperate situation
火燒雲	nuée ardente; hot cloud of volcanic ash
火燙	burning hot; fiery; to have one's hair permed with hot curling tongs
火燭	fire and candles; household things that burn
火爆	fiery (temper); popular; flourishing
火爐	stove
火牆	firewall
火犁	mechanical plow
火狐	red panda (Ailurus fulgens); red fox (Vulpes vulpes)
火球	fireball
火環	Ring of Fire (circum-Pacific seismic belt)
火盆	brazier; fire pan; hibachi
火眼	pinkeye
火眼金睛	piercing eyes; discerning eyes
火石	flint
火砲	cannon; gun; artillery
火神	god of fire
火種	tinder; source of a fire; inflammable material
火筷子	fire tongs; hair curling tongs
火箭	rocket
火箭彈	rocket (artillery)
火箭推進榴彈	rocket-propelled grenade (RPG)
火箭炮	rocket artillery
火箭筒	bazooka; rocket launcher
火箭軍	Rocket Force, branch of the PLA responsible for tactical and strategic missiles
火紅	fiery; blazing
火絨草	edelweiss (Leontopodium alpinum)
火線	FireWire (IEEE 1394 data-transfer interface)
火腿	ham
火腿腸	ham sausage
火舌	tongue of flame
火色	(dialect) intensity of the fire (in cooking, kiln firing etc)
火花	spark; sparkle
火花塞	spark plug
火苗	flame
火葬	to cremate
火葬場	crematorium
火藥	gunpowder
火藥味	smell of gunpowder; (fig.) combative tone; belligerence
火藥味甚濃	strong smell of gunpowder; fig. tense situation; standoff
火蜥蜴	salamander
火衛	moon of Mars
火衛一	Phobos (moon of Mars), aka Mars I
火衛二	Deimos (moon of Mars), aka Mars II
火警	fire alarm
火車	train
火車票	train ticket
火車站	train station
火車頭	train engine; locomotive
火輪	(old) steamboat
火輪船	(old) steamboat
火辣	painful heat; scorching; rude and forthright
火辣辣	scorching hot; (of a burn or other injury) painful; burning
火速	at top speed; at a tremendous lick
火鉗	fire tongs
火鍋	hotpot; (basketball) a blocked shot; a block
火險	fire danger (abbr. for 火災危險|火灾危险[huo3 zai1 wei1 xian3])
火雞	turkey
火雞麵	buldak ramen (a type of spicy Korean instant noodles)
火電	thermal power
火鶴	flamingo lily (Anthurium andraeanum)
火鶴花	flamingo lily (Anthurium andraeanum)
火鹼	caustic soda; sodium hydroxide NaOH
火麻	hemp
火龍	a lantern or torchlight procession (resembling a fiery dragon)
火龍果	red pitaya; dragon fruit; dragon pearl fruit (genus Hylocereus)
灬	"fire" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 86), occurring in 熙, 然, 熊 etc
灰	ash; dust; lime
灰不喇唧	dull gray; gray and loathsome
灰不溜丟	gloomy and dull (idiom); boring and gray; unpleasantly murky
灰伯勞	(bird species of China) northern shrike (Lanius borealis)
灰冠鴉雀	(bird species of China) Przevalski's parrotbill; rusty-throated parrotbill (Suthora przewalskii)
灰冠鶲鶯	(bird species of China) grey-crowned warbler (Phylloscopus tephrocephalus)
灰卷尾	(bird species of China) ashy drongo (Dicrurus leucophaeus)
灰喉山椒鳥	(bird species of China) grey-chinned minivet (Pericrocotus solaris)
灰喉柳鶯	(bird species of China) ashy-throated warbler (Phylloscopus maculipennis)
灰喉針尾雨燕	(bird species of China) silver-backed needletail (Hirundapus cochinchinensis)
灰喉鴉雀	(bird species of China) ashy-throated parrotbill (Suthora alphonsiana)
灰喜鵲	(bird species of China) azure-winged magpie (Cyanopica cyanus)
灰土	dust; (soil taxonomy) spodosol
灰塵	dust
灰奇鶥	(bird species of China) grey sibia (Heterophasia gracilis)
灰姑娘	Cinderella; a sudden rags-to-riches celebrity
灰孔雀雉	(bird species of China) grey peacock-pheasant (Polyplectron bicalcaratum)
灰尾漂鷸	(bird species of China) grey-tailed tattler (Tringa brevipes)
灰山椒鳥	(bird species of China) ashy minivet (Pericrocotus divaricatus)
灰山鶉	(bird species of China) grey partridge (Perdix perdix)
灰岩	limestone (abbr. for 石灰岩[shi2 hui1 yan2])
灰岩柳鶯	(bird species of China) limestone leaf warbler (Phylloscopus calciatilis)
灰岩鷦鶥	(bird species of China) Annam limestone babbler (Gypsophila annamensis)
灰巖殘丘	mogote (steep-sided pointed hill in karst landform)
灰度	grayscale
灰心	to lose heart; to be discouraged
灰心喪氣	downhearted; downcast; in despair
灰斑鳩	(bird species of China) Eurasian collared dove (Streptopelia decaocto)
灰斑鴴	(bird species of China) grey plover (Pluvialis squatarola)
灰斑鶲	(bird species of China) grey-streaked flycatcher (Muscicapa griseisticta)
灰暗	dull gray; drab; murky
灰林䳭	(bird species of China) grey bush chat (Saxicola ferreus)
灰林鴞	(bird species of China) Himalayan owl (Strix nivicolum)
灰林鴿	(bird species of China) ashy wood pigeon (Columba pulchricollis)
灰柳鶯	(bird species of China) sulphur-bellied warbler (Phylloscopus griseolus)
灰椋鳥	(bird species of China) white-cheeked starling (Spodiopsar cineraceus)
灰樹鵲	(bird species of China) grey treepie (Dendrocitta formosae)
灰水	gray water
灰泥	plaster; mortar
灰溜溜	dull gray; gloomy; dejected
灰漿	mortar (for masonry)
灰熊	grizzly bear
灰燕鴴	(bird species of China) small pratincole (Glareola lactea)
灰燕鵙	(bird species of China) ashy woodswallow (Artamus fuscus)
灰燼	ashes
灰獴	gray mongoose (Herpestes edwardsii)
灰獵犬	greyhound
灰瓣蹼鷸	(bird species of China) red phalarope (Phalaropus fulicarius)
灰產	gray-market industry; industry operating in legal or ethical gray areas (abbr. for 灰色產業|灰色产业[hui1 se4 chan3 ye4])
灰白	ash-colored
灰白喉林鶯	(bird species of China) common whitethroat (Curruca communis)
灰白色	ash gray
灰皮諾	Pinot gris (grape type); Pinot grigio
灰眶雀鶥	(bird species of China) David's fulvetta (Alcippe davidi)
灰眼短腳鵯	(bird species of China) grey-eyed bulbul (Iole propinqua)
灰短腳鵯	(bird species of China) ashy bulbul (Hemixos flavala)
灰翅噪鶥	(bird species of China) moustached laughingthrush (Ianthocincla cineracea)
灰翅鶇	(bird species of China) grey-winged blackbird (Turdus boulboul)
灰翅鷗	(bird species of China) glaucous-winged gull (Larus glaucescens)
灰背伯勞	(bird species of China) grey-backed shrike (Lanius tephronotus)
灰背椋鳥	(bird species of China) white-shouldered starling (Sturnia sinensis)
灰背燕尾	(bird species of China) slaty-backed forktail (Enicurus schistaceus)
灰背隼	(bird species of China) merlin (Falco columbarius)
灰背鶇	(bird species of China) grey-backed thrush (Turdus hortulorum)
灰背鷗	(bird species of China) slaty-backed gull (Larus schistisagus)
灰胸竹雞	(bird species of China) Chinese bamboo partridge (Bambusicola thoracicus)
灰胸藪鶥	(bird species of China) Emei Shan liocichla (Liocichla omeiensis)
灰胸鷦鶯	(bird species of China) grey-breasted prinia (Prinia hodgsonii)
灰脅噪鶥	(bird species of China) grey-sided laughingthrush (Pterorhinus caerulatus)
灰腳柳鶯	(bird species of China) pale-legged leaf warbler (Phylloscopus tenellipes)
灰腹噪鶥	(bird species of China) brown-cheeked laughingthrush (Trochalopteron henrici)
灰腹地鶯	(bird species of China) grey-bellied tesia (Tesia cyaniventer)
灰腹繡眼鳥	(bird species of China) Indian white-eye (Zosterops palpebrosus)
灰腹角雉	(bird species of China) Blyth's tragopan (Tragopan blythii)
灰臉鵟鷹	(bird species of China) grey-faced buzzard (Butastur indicus)
灰臉鶲鶯	(bird species of China) grey-cheeked warbler (Phylloscopus poliogenys)
灰色	gray; ash gray; grizzly
灰色地帶	gray area
灰菜	fat hen (Chenopodium album), edible annual plant
灰蒙蒙	dusky; overcast (of weather)
灰藍姬鶲	(bird species of China) slaty-blue flycatcher (Ficedula tricolor)
灰藍山雀	(bird species of China) azure tit (Cyanistes cyanus)
灰藍鵲	(bird species of China) white-winged magpie (Urocissa whiteheadi)
灰質	(anatomy) gray matter
灰赤楊	gray alder (Alnus incana); speckled alder
灰雁	(bird species of China) greylag goose (Anser anser)
灰霾	dust haze; dust storm
灰領	gray collar; specialist; technical worker
灰頭啄木鳥	(bird species of China) grey-headed woodpecker (Picus canus)
灰頭土臉	head and face filthy with grime (idiom); covered in dirt
灰頭斑翅鶥	(bird species of China) streaked barwing (Actinodura souliei)
灰頭柳鶯	(bird species of China) grey-hooded warbler (Phylloscopus xanthoschistos)
灰頭椋鳥	(bird species of China) chestnut-tailed starling (Sturnia malabarica)
灰頭灰雀	(bird species of China) grey-headed bullfinch (Pyrrhula erythaca)
灰頭綠鳩	(bird species of China) ashy-headed green pigeon (Treron phayrei)
灰頭藪鶥	(bird species of China) red-faced liocichla (Liocichla phoenicea)
灰頭雀鶥	(bird species of China) grey-hooded fulvetta (Fulvetta cinereiceps)
灰頭鴉雀	(bird species of China) grey-headed parrotbill (Paradoxornis gularis)
灰頭鵐	(bird species of China) black-faced bunting (Emberiza spodocephala)
灰頭鶇	(bird species of China) chestnut thrush (Turdus rubrocanus)
灰頭鸚鵡	(bird species of China) grey-headed parakeet (Psittacula finschii)
灰頭麥雞	(bird species of China) grey-headed lapwing (Vanellus cinereus)
灰頸鵐	(bird species of China) grey-necked bunting (Emberiza buchanani)
灰飛煙滅	lit. scattered ashes and dispersed smoke (idiom)
灰鵐	(bird species of China) grey bunting (Emberiza variabilis)
灰鶴	(bird species of China) common crane (Grus grus)
灰鶺鴒	(bird species of China) grey wagtail (Motacilla cinerea)
灰鸌	(bird species of China) sooty shearwater (Ardenna grisea)
灴	to bake, to roast; to dry at a fire
灶	kitchen stove; kitchen; mess; canteen
灶具	stove; cooker; (dialect) cooking utensils
灶台	stovetop; rangetop
灶君	Zaoshen, the god of the kitchen; also written 灶神
灶屋	(dialect) kitchen
灶房	(dialect) kitchen
灶火	stove; kitchen
灶王	Zaoshen, the god of the kitchen; also written 灶神
灶王爺	Zaoshen, the god of the kitchen; also written 灶神
灶眼	stovetop burner
灶神	Zaoshen, the god of the kitchen
灶神星	Vesta, an asteroid, second most massive object in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter, discovered in 1807 by H.W. Olbers
灶間	(dialect) kitchen
灶馬	camel cricket
灸	moxibustion (TCM)
灸法	moxibustion (TCM)
灺	(literary) candle stub
灼	to burn; to sear; to scorch; (bound form) bright; luminous
灼傷	a burn (tissue damage from heat, chemicals etc)
灼急	worried
灼熱	burning hot; scorching
灼燒	to burn; to scorch
灼痛	burn (i.e. wound); burning pain
灼見	to see clearly; deep insight; profound view
災	disaster; calamity
災區	disaster area; stricken region
災厄	adversity; catastrophe; disaster
災害	calamity; disaster
災害鏈	series of calamities; disaster following on disaster
災年	disaster year; (esp.) year of poor harvest
災後	after a catastrophe; post-traumatic
災情	disastrous situation; calamity
災星	comet or supernova viewed as evil portent
災殃	disaster
災民	victim (of a disaster)
災禍	disaster
災荒	natural disaster; famine
災變	catastrophe; cataclysmic change
災變說	catastrophism (theory that geological changes are brought about by catastrophes such as the biblical flood)
災變論	catastrophism
災難	disaster; catastrophe
災難性	catastrophic
災難片	disaster movie
炁	(Daoism) Qi; vital force; life force (variant of 氣|气[qi4])
炅	(literary) bright; shining; brilliance
炆	(Cantonese) to simmer; to cook over a slow fire
炊	to cook food
炊事	cooking
炊事員	cook; kitchen worker
炊具	cooking utensils; cookware; cooker
炊器	cooking vessels (archaeology)
炊帚	pot-scrubbing brush, made from bamboo strips
炊煙	smoke from kitchen chimneys
炊爨	to light a fire and cook a meal
炌	flaming fire
炎	flame; inflammation; -itis
炎亞綸	Aaron Yan (1986-), Taiwanese singer
炎夏	hot summer; scorching summer
炎帝	Flame Emperors (c. 2000 BC), legendary dynasty descended from Shennong 神農|神农[Shen2 nong2] Farmer God
炎帝陵	Fiery Emperor's tomb in Yanling county, Zhuzhou 株洲, Hunan
炎性	inflammatory (medicine)
炎性反應	inflammation response
炎炎	scorching
炎熱	blistering hot; sizzling hot (weather)
炎症	inflammation
炎陵縣	Yanling, a county in Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
炎黃子孫	descendants of the Fiery Emperor and the Yellow Emperor (i.e. Han Chinese people)
炒	to sauté; to stir-fry; to speculate (in real estate etc); to scalp
炒作	to hype; to promote (in the media)
炒信	(of a business operator) to inflate one's reputation by dishonest means (e.g. posting fake reviews)
炒冷飯	to stir-fry leftover rice; fig. to rehash the same story
炒勺	wok with a long handle; wok spatula; ladle
炒匯	to speculate in foreign currency
炒地皮	to speculate in building land
炒家	speculator
炒房	to speculate in real estate
炒更	to moonlight
炒氣氛	to liven up the atmosphere
炒熱	to raise prices by speculation; to hype
炒熱氣氛	to liven up the atmosphere
炒米	fried rice; millet stir-fried in butter
炒粿條	char kway teow (stir-fried flat rice noodles, a Southeast Asian dish)
炒股	(coll.) to speculate in stocks
炒股票	to speculate in stocks
炒菜	to stir-fry; to do the cooking; stir-fried dish
炒蛋	scrambled eggs
炒貨	roasted snacks (peanuts, chestnuts etc)
炒鍋	wok; frying pan
炒雞蛋	scrambled eggs
炒飯	fried rice; (Tw) (slang) to have sex
炒魷魚	(coll.) to fire sb; to sack sb
炒麵	stir-fried noodles; "chow mein"
炔	alkyne; also pr. [jue2]
炔烴	(chemistry) alkyne
炕	kang (a heatable brick bed); to bake; to dry by the heat of a fire
炕床	heatable brick bed
炘	mid-day glare; heat
炙	to broil; to roast
炙手可熱	lit. burn your hand, feel the heat (idiom)
炙熱	extremely hot (weather); blazing (sun); (fig.) burning (enthusiasm)
炟	(used in transliterating foreign words); (used in names)
炣	(literary) fire; flame
炤	to shine; to illuminate
炫	to dazzle; (bound form) to boast; to show off; (slang) cool; awesome
炫富	to flaunt one's wealth
炫弄	to show off; to flaunt
炫技	to show off one's skills; to put on a dazzling display of one's talents
炫目	to dazzle; to inspire awe
炫耀	dazzling; to show off; to flaunt
炫酷	(slang) cool; awesome
炬	torch
炭	wood charcoal; coal
炭墼	coal briquette
炭焙	charcoal-roasted
炭疽	(medicine) anthrax; (horticulture) anthracnose; canker
炭疽桿菌	anthrax bacterium (Bacillus anthracis)
炭疽熱	anthrax
炭疽病	(medicine) anthrax; (horticulture) anthracnose; canker
炮	to prepare herbal medicine by roasting or parching (in a pan)
炮仗	firecracker
炮兒局	police station (Beijing slang)
炮兵	artillery soldier; gunner
炮友	fuck buddy; friend with benefits
炮塔	gun turret
炮彈	artillery shell
炮彈坑	shell crater; shell hole
炮戰	artillery bombardment; artillery battle
炮擊	to shell; to bombard; bombardment
炮決	to execute sb by cannon
炮火	artillery barrage; gunfire
炮灰	cannon fodder
炮烙	form of torture said to have been used by King Zhou of Shang 商紂王|商纣王[Shang1 Zhou4 Wang2] in which the victim was forced onto a bronze pillar heated by a fire
炮煉	to parch and refine medicinal herbs
炮竹	firecracker
炮耳	trunnion
炮艇機	gunship (aircraft)
炮艦	gunship
炮製	to concoct; to invent; to fabricate
炮轟	to bombard; to bomb; (fig.) to criticize
炮釺	a drill; a hammer drill for boring through rock; same as 釺子|钎子
炮銅	gunmetal (alloy of copper, tin and zinc)
炮銅色	gunmetal gray
炯	bright; clear
炯炯	(literary) (of eyes) bright; shining
炯炯有神	(idiom) (of eyes) bright and full of spirit; shining with vitality and presence
炰	to roast
炱	soot
炳	bright; brilliant; luminous
炳文	luminous style
炳然	to be manifest for everyone to see
炳煥	bright and brilliant
炳燭	by bright candlelight
炳耀	bright and luminous
炳著	eminent; renowned
炳蔚	splendid (of writing style)
炴	firelight; blaze
炷	wick of an oil lamp; to burn (incense etc)
炸	to burst; to explode; to blow up; to bomb; (coll.) to fly into a rage
炸丸子	croquettes; deep fried food balls
炸兩	(Cantonese cuisine) zhaliang, rice noodle rolls 腸粉|肠粉[chang2 fen3] stuffed with youtiao 油條|油条[you2 tiao2]
炸土豆條	french fries; (hot) potato chips
炸土豆片	potato chips; crisps; fried potato
炸垮	to blow up (demolish with an explosion)
炸子雞	crispy fried chicken
炸彈	bomb
炸彈之母	Massive Ordinance Air Blast (MOAB), or Mother of All Bombs, a powerful American bomb
炸彈之父	Aviation Thermobaric Bomb of Increased Power (ATBIP), or Father of All Bombs, a powerful Russian bomb
炸掉	to bomb
炸死	to kill with an explosion
炸油餅	deep-fried cake
炸燬	to blow up; to destroy with explosives
炸物	(Tw) deep-fried food
炸碎	to destroy in an explosion; to break (by bombing)
炸糕	fried glutinous rice dough cake
炸膛	(of a gun) to explode; to blow up
炸薯條	french fries
炸薯片	potato chip
炸薯球	tater tot
炸藥	explosive; blasting agent; dynamite
炸藥獎	(slang) Nobel Prize
炸街	(slang) (of a car driver) to engage in noisy, disruptive showboating
炸裂	to burst; to explode; to rupture
炸醬麵	zhajiang mian, thick wheat noodles served with ground pork simmered in salty fermented soybean paste (or other sauce)
炸鍋	(of food) to burst out of the pot; (fig.) to be in an uproar
炸雞	fried chicken
炸雷	thunderclap
炸魚	deep-fried fish
為	as (in the capacity of); to take sth as; to act as
為上	to be valued above all else
為主	to rely mainly on; to attach most importance to
為之一振	to be energized by it; to receive a boost from it
為了	for; for the purpose of; in order to
為五斗米折腰	(allusion to Tao Qian 陶潛|陶潜[Tao2 Qian2], who used this phrase when he resigned from government service rather than show subservience to a visiting inspector) to bow and scrape for five pecks of rice (that being a part of his salary as a local magistrate)
為人	to conduct oneself; behavior; conduct; personal character
為人師表	to serve as a model for others (idiom); to be a worthy teacher
為人民服務	Serve the People!, CCP political slogan
為什麼	why?; for what reason?
為仁不富	(idiom) benevolent people can't get rich
為伍	to associate with; to keep company with
為何	why
為例	used in the construction 以...為例|以...为例, "to take ... as an example"
為啥	dialectal equivalent of 為什麼|为什么[wei4 shen2 me5]
為善最樂	doing good deeds brings the greatest joy (idiom)
為夫	(archaic) term used by a husband to refer to himself when speaking to his wife
為害	to cause harm
為富不仁	(idiom) to be wealthy and heartless
為富不仁，為仁不富	(proverb, from Mencius) the rich are not benevolent, and the benevolent are not rich
為己任	to make it one's business; to take upon oneself to
為師	term used by a teacher or master to refer to themself when speaking to their student
為德不卒	to start on virtue but give up (idiom); to fail to carry things through
為德不終	to start on virtue but give up (idiom); to fail to carry things through
為愛鼓掌	(neologism) (slang) to have sex
為所欲為	(idiom) to do whatever one pleases
為數	(used before 不少[bu4 shao3] or 不多[bu4 duo1]) in terms of quantity; (before a number) numbering; amounting to
為數不多	not many; only a few
為時	timewise; pertaining to time
為時不晚	it is not too late (idiom)
為時已晚	already too late
為時未晚	it is not too late (idiom)
為時過早	premature; too soon
為期	(to be done) by (a certain date); lasting (a certain time)
為止	until
為此	for this reason; with regards to this; in this respect
為毛	(Internet slang) why?
為民除害	(idiom) to rid the people of a scourge
為準	to serve as the norm
為父	term used by a father to refer to himself when speaking to his child
為生	to make a living
為的是	for the sake of; for the purpose of
為著	in order to; because of; for the sake of
為虎作倀	(idiom) to act as accomplice to a villain; to assist in wrongdoing
為重	to attach most importance to
為難	to feel embarrassed or awkward; to make things difficult (for someone)
為非作歹	to break the law and commit crimes (idiom); malefactor; evildoer
為首	head; be headed by
炻	stoneware
炻器	stoneware
炾	bright and spacious
烀	to cook in a small quantity of water
烈	ardent; intense; fierce
烈士	martyr
烈士陵	memorial mound; heroes' memorial
烈女	a woman who dies fighting for her honor or follows her husband in death
烈屬	family or dependents of martyr (in PRC, esp. revolutionary martyr)
烈山區	Lieshan, a district of Huaibei City 淮北市[Huai2 bei3 Shi4], Anhui
烈度	intensity
烈性	strong; intense; spirited; virulent
烈日	Liege, town in Belgium
烈火	raging inferno; blaze
烈焰	raging flames
烈酒	strong alcoholic drink
烈馬	spirited or untamed horse
烊	molten; smelt
烋	to boil or fumigate
烏	abbr. for country names that begin with 烏|乌[wu1]: Ukraine 烏克蘭|乌克兰[Wu1 ke4 lan2], Uzbekistan 烏茲別克斯坦|乌兹别克斯坦[Wu1 zi1 bie2 ke4 si1 tan3] etc
烏七八糟	everything in disorder (idiom); in a hideous mess; obscene
烏亮	lustrous and black; jet-black
烏什縣	Uqturpan, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
烏來區	Wulai, a district of New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
烏倫古河	Ulungur River in Xinjiang
烏倫古湖	Ulungur Lake in Xinjiang
烏克蘭	Ukraine
烏克蘭人	Ukrainian (person)
烏克麗麗	(Tw) ukulele (loanword)
烏冬麵	udon noodles
烏加利	ugali (aka nshima)
烏合之眾	(idiom) rabble; disorderly band
烏嘴柳鶯	(bird species of China) large-billed leaf warbler (Phylloscopus magnirostris)
烏塌菜	rosette bok choy (Brassica rapa var. rosularis)
烏塗	unclear; not straightforward; (of drinking water) lukewarm
烏壓壓	forming a dense mass
烏孜別克	Uzbek ethnic group
烏孜別克族	Uzbek ethnic group
烏孜別克語	Uzbek language
烏孫國	Wusun kingdom of central Asia (c. 300 BC-300 AD)
烏審	Uxin or Wushen banner in southwest Ordos prefecture 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
烏審旗	Uxin or Wushen banner in southwest Ordos prefecture 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
烏干達	Uganda
烏德勒支	Utrecht
烏恰縣	Ulugqat, a county in Kizilsu Kyrgyz Autonomous Prefecture 克孜勒蘇柯爾克孜自治州|克孜勒苏柯尔克孜自治州[Ke4 zi1 le4 su1 Ke1 er3 ke4 zi1 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
烏托邦	(loanword) utopia
烏拉	leather shoe stuffed with Carex meyeriana 烏拉草|乌拉草[wu4 la5 cao3], worn in northeastern China during winter
烏拉圭	Uruguay
烏拉爾	the Ural mountains in Russia, dividing Europe from Asia
烏拉爾山	the Ural mountains in Russia, dividing Europe from Asia
烏拉爾山脈	Ural Mountains
烏拉特	Urat plain in Bayan Nur 巴彥淖爾|巴彦淖尔[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3], Inner Mongolia
烏拉特中旗	Urat Center banner or Urdyn Dund khoshuu in Bayan Nur 巴彥淖爾|巴彦淖尔[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3], Inner Mongolia
烏拉特前旗	Urat Front banner or Urdyn Ömnöd khoshuu in Bayan Nur 巴彥淖爾|巴彦淖尔[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3], Inner Mongolia
烏拉特後旗	Urat Rear banner or Urdyn Xoit khoshuu in Bayan Nur 巴彥淖爾|巴彦淖尔[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3], Inner Mongolia
烏拉特草原	Urat plain in Bayan Nur 巴彥淖爾|巴彦淖尔[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3], Inner Mongolia
烏拉草	Carex meyeriana
烏日	Wuri, a district of Taichung, Taiwan
烏普薩拉	Uppsala, Swedish university city just north of Stockholm
烏有	(literary) not to exist; nonexistent; illusory
烏木	ebony
烏東德	Wudongde, the name of a hydroelectric dam on the Jinsha River 金沙江[Jin1 sha1 Jiang1] at a point where the river forms a border between Yunnan and Sichuan
烏林鴞	(bird species of China) great grey owl (Strix nebulosa)
烏桓	Wuhuan (nomadic tribe)
烏桕	Tallow tree; Sapium sebiferum
烏梁海	Mongol surname
烏欖	black olive (Canarium tramdenum)
烏氣	anger
烏泱烏泱	in great number
烏洛托品	hexamine (CH2)6N4
烏海市	Wuhai, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
烏漆墨黑	jet-black; pitch-dark
烏灰銀鷗	(bird species of China) lesser black-backed gull (Larus fuscus)
烏灰鶇	(bird species of China) Japanese thrush (Turdus cardis)
烏灰鷂	(bird species of China) Montagu's harrier (Circus pygargus)
烏煙瘴氣	(idiom) full of smoke and noxious fumes; (fig.) toxic atmosphere; chaotic environment
烏燕鷗	(bird species of China) sooty tern (Onychoprion fuscatus)
烏爾	Ur (Sumerian city c. 4500 BC in modern Iraq)
烏爾姆	Ulm (city in Germany)
烏爾根奇	Urgench, city in Uzbekistan
烏爾格	ancient name of Ulan Bator
烏爾禾區	Orku, a district of Karamay City 克拉瑪依市|克拉玛依市[Ke4 la1 ma3 yi1 Shi4], Xinjiang
烏爾都語	Urdu (language)
烏特列支	Utrecht, city in Netherlands
烏當區	Wudang, a district of Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
烏節路	Orchard Road, Singapore (shopping and tourist area)
烏紗帽	black gauze hat (worn by an imperial official as a sign of his position)
烏翠區	Wucui, a district of Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
烏良哈	Mongol surname
烏茲別克	Uzbek; abbr. for Uzbekistan
烏茲別克人	Uzbek (person)
烏茲別克斯坦	Uzbekistan
烏茲別克族	the Uzbek people (race)
烏茲衝鋒槍	Uzi submachine gun
烏藍	dark blue
烏蘇市	Wusu, a county-level city in Tacheng Prefecture 塔城地區|塔城地区[Ta3 cheng2 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
烏蘇里斯克	Ussuriisk city in Russian Pacific Primorsky region
烏蘇里江	Ussuri River
烏蘭夫	Ulanhu (1906-1988), Soviet-trained Mongolian communist who became important PRC military leader
烏蘭察布市	Ulanqab, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
烏蘭巴托	Ulaanbaatar or Ulan Bator, capital of Mongolia
烏蘭浩特市	Ulanhot, a county-level city in Hinggan League 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
烏蘭縣	Ulan, a county in Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
烏西亞	Uzziah (son of Joram)
烏訥楚	Uxin or Wushen banner in southwest Ordos prefecture 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
烏語	Uzbek language
烏賊	cuttlefish
烏達區	Wuda, a district of Wuhai City 烏海市|乌海市[Wu1 hai3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
烏里雅蘇台	Uliastai, the Qing name for outer Mongolia
烏雞	black-boned chicken; silky fowl; silkie
烏雲	black cloud
烏青	bluish black; bruise; bruising (CL:塊|块[kuai4])
烏飯果	fruit of Vaccinium bracteatum
烏骨雞	black-boned chicken; silky fowl; silkie
烏魚	gray mullet (Mugil cephalus); snakehead fish (family Channidae)
烏魚子	mullet roe (salted and dried); bottarga
烏魯木齊市	Ürümqi, prefecture-level city and capital of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
烏魯木齊縣	Ürümqi, a county in Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
烏魯汝	Uluru, iconic large rock formation in central Australia, sacred to Aboriginals, a World Heritage Site
烏魯魯	Uluru, massive sandstone outcrop in central Australia
烏鯧	black pomfret
烏鱧	northern snakehead (Channa argus)
烏鳥私情	lit. the solicitude of the crow (who provides for his old parent)(idiom)
烏鴉	crow; raven
烏鴉嘴	crow's beak; (fig.) person who makes an inauspicious remark
烏鴉座	Corvus (constellation)
烏鵑	(bird species of China) square-tailed drongo-cuckoo (Surniculus lugubris)
烏鵰	(bird species of China) greater spotted eagle (Clanga clanga)
烏鵰鴞	(bird species of China) dusky eagle-owl (Ketupa coromanda)
烏鶇	(bird species of China) Chinese blackbird (Turdus mandarinus)
烏鶲	(bird species of China) dark-sided flycatcher (Muscicapa sibirica)
烏黎雅	Uriah (name)
烏黑	jet-black; dark
烏黑色	black; crow-black
烏齊雅	Uzziah son of Amaziah, king of Judah c. 750 BC
烏龍	black dragon; unexpected mistake or mishap; own goal (soccer)
烏龍指	fat finger error (finance)
烏龍球	own goal (ball sports)
烏龍茶	oolong tea
烏龍麵	udon, a thick Japanese-style wheat-flour noodle
烏龜	tortoise; cuckold
烏龜殼	tortoise shell
烓	three-cornered stove
烔	hot; heated
烗	to burn; to blaze
烘	to bake; to heat by fire; to set off by contrast
烘乾	to dry over a stove
烘乾機	clothes dryer
烘手器	hand dryer
烘手機	hand dryer
烘托	background (of a painting); backdrop
烘染	relief shading (in a picture); fig. to throw into relief
烘烤	to roast; to bake
烘焙	to cure by drying over a fire (tea, meat etc); to bake
烘焙師	baker
烘焙店	bakery
烘焙雞	homepage (loanword) (humorous)
烘爐	oven
烘碗機	dish dryer
烘箱	oven
烘籠	bamboo drying frame
烘籠兒	bamboo drying frame
烘製	to bake
烘襯	to set off; to highlight by contrast
烘豆	baked beans
烘雲托月	lit. to shade in the clouds to offset the moon (idiom); fig. a foil
烙	to brand; to iron; to bake (in a pan)
烙印	to brand (cattle etc); brand; (fig.) to leave a lasting mark
烙鐵	flatiron; iron; branding iron
烙餅	pancake; flat bread; griddle cake
烜	brilliant
烜赫	famous; prestigious
烜赫一時	to enjoy a short-lived fame or position of power
烝	multitudinous; the masses; to present (to sb)
烝民	people; the masses
烝黎	people; the masses
烤	to roast; to grill; to broil; to bake; to toast (bread)
烤串	grilled food on skewers
烤布蕾	(loanword) crème brûlée
烤房	drying room; oven
烤架	grill (of a cooker etc)
烤火	to warm oneself at a fire
烤炙	to scorch; (of the sun) to beat down on
烤焦	to burn (food by overroasting etc)
烤煙	flue-cured tobacco; tobacco for flue-curing
烤爐	oven
烤盤	baking tray
烤箱	oven
烤肉	to barbecue meat; to roast meat; barbecued meat; roast meat
烤肉醬	barbecue sauce
烤腸	grilled sausage; roasted sausage
烤雞	roast chicken
烤電	diathermia (medical treatment involving local heating of body tissues with electric current)
烤餅	scone
烤鴨	roast duck
烤麩	kao fu, a spongy wheat gluten product used in Chinese cuisine
烤麵包	to toast bread; toasted bread; toast; to bake bread
烤麵包機	toaster
烯	(chemistry) alkene; -ene (suffix used in chemical names)
烯烴	(chemistry) alkene
烳	to travel by the light of torch
烴	hydrocarbon
烴化作用	alkylation
烴蠟	hydrocarbon wax
烶	(literary) in flames; on fire
烷	alkane
烷基	alkyl
烷基苯	alkyl benzene; dodecylbenzene C18H30
烷基苯磺酸鈉	sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate (used as a bubbling agent in detergents)
烷氧基	alkoxy (chemistry)
烷烴	alkane
烹	to boil; to brew (tea)
烹煮	to cook; to boil
烹茶	to brew tea
烹製	to cook; to prepare (food)
烹調	to cook
烹調術	cookery
烹飪	cooking; culinary arts
烹飪法	cuisine; culinary art; cookery
烺	blaze; light
烽	beacon fire
烽火	fire beacon (to give alarm)
烽火四起	the fire of war in all four directions (idiom); the confusion of war
烽煙	fire beacon (used as alarm signal over long distance)
烽煙四起	lit. fire beacons in all four directions (idiom); the confusion of war
烽煙遍地	fire beacons on all sides (idiom); enveloped in the flames of war
烽燧	fire beacon tower (used in frontier regions in former times to relay information about the enemy, using smoke by day and fire at night)
焃	fiery; bright
焄	fumes from sacrifice
焆	(literary) bright
焉	where; how
焉知	(literary) how is one to know?
焉耆回族自治縣	Yanqi Hui Autonomous County, in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
焉耆盆地	Yanqi basin in northeast of Tarim basin
焊	to weld; to braze; to solder
焊工	welder; solderer; welding
焊接	to weld; welding
焊料	solder
焊槍	welding torch
焊盤	(electronics) pad; land (a connection on a circuit board)
焊絲	welding wire
焊錫	solder
焊點	welding point; (electronics) solder joint
焌	to extinguish a burning object
焌油	to pour heated oil and seasonings over food (e.g. a cooked fish)
焌黑	pitch black
焐	to warm sth up
焓	enthalpy
焗	(dialect) to cook in salt or sand, inside a sealed pot; to steam
焗油	to condition or dye the hair using hair treatment product in conjunction with a hair steamer
焗油機	hair steamer
焗烤	to bake; gratin
焗飯	rice au gratin
焙	to dry over a fire; to bake
焙乾	to dry over a fire; to roast
焙火	to roast (in tea leaf processing)
焙烤	to bake; to roast; to kiln
焙煎	to dry and roast over a low fire (tea, chestnuts, seaweed etc)
焙燒	to roast; to bake (e.g. mineral ore)
焙粉	baking powder
焚	to burn
焚化	to cremate
焚屍	to cremate
焚屍爐	crematorium; crematory oven
焚書坑儒	to burn the Confucian classics and bury alive the Confucian scholars (acts supposedly committed by the first emperor 秦始皇[Qin2 Shi3 huang2])
焚毀	to burn down; to destroy with fire
焚燒	to burn; to set on fire
焚燬	to burn down; to destroy with fire
焚琴煮鶴	lit. to burn zithers and cook cranes; fig. to waste valuable resources
焚硯	to destroy one's ink-slab (i.e. to write no more because others write so much better)
焚膏繼晷	to burn the midnight oil (idiom); to work continuously night and day
焚風	foehn wind (loanword)
焚香	to burn incense
焚香敬神	to burn incense in prayer to a God
焜	brilliant
焞	bright; radiant; Taiwan pr. [chun2]
焟	dry
焠	to temper (as steel)
無	used in 南無|南无[na1 mo2]
無上	supreme
無不	none lacking; none missing; everything is there
無不達	nothing he can't do
無中生有	to create something from nothing (idiom)
無主失物	unclaimed lost property
無主見	without one's own opinions
無事不登三寶殿	lit. one doesn't visit a temple without a cause (idiom)
無事可做	to have nothing to do; to have time on one's hands
無事獻殷勤，非姦即盜	one who is unaccountably solicitous is hiding evil intentions (idiom)
無事生非	to make trouble out of nothing
無人	unmanned; uninhabited
無人不	no man is not...
無人不曉	known to everyone
無人不知	known to everybody
無人區	uninhabited region
無人售票	self-service ticketing; automated ticketing
無人問津	to be of no interest to anyone (idiom)
無人機	drone; unmanned aerial vehicle
無人能及	nobody can compete with; unmatched by anybody; without rival
無人飛行器	drone; unmanned aerial vehicle
無人駕駛	unmanned; unpiloted
無以復加	in the extreme (idiom); incapable of further increase
無以為報	unable to return the favor
無以為生	no way to get by
無任	extremely (pleased, grateful etc)
無任感激	deeply obliged
無休無止	ceaseless; endless (idiom)
無伴奏合唱	a cappella (music)
無似	extremely; unworthy (self-deprecatory term)
無何	(literary) soon; before long; (literary) nothing; nothing else
無依無靠	(idiom) having nothing to rely on; on one's own
無信義	in bad faith; false; perfidious
無倫	(literary) incomparable; matchless
無做作	unaffected (i.e. behaving naturally)
無傷大雅	(of a defect etc) to be of no great matter (idiom); harmless
無價	invaluable; priceless
無價之寶	(idiom) priceless treasure
無價珍珠	Pearl of Great Price (Mormonism)
無償	free; no charge; at no cost
無兩	unparalleled; matchless; unique
無冬無夏	regardless of the season; all the year round
無出其右	(idiom) matchless; without equal; there is nothing better
無利	no profit; not profitable; a hindrance
無利不起早	(saying) people don't get up early unless there is some benefit in doing so
無力	to lack strength; to feel weak
無力回天	(idiom) powerless to save the situation; unable to avert disaster
無力感	feeling of powerlessness; sense of helplessness
無功不受祿	Don't get a reward if it's not deserved. (idiom)
無功受祿	to get undeserved rewards (idiom)
無功而返	to return without any achievement (idiom); to go home with one's tail between one's legs
無助	helpless; helplessness; feeling useless
無助感	to feel helpless; feeling useless
無動於衷	aloof; indifferent; unconcerned
無匹	incomparable; matchless; unrivalled
無厘頭	silly talk or "mo lei tau" (Cantonese), genre of humor emerging from Hong Kong late in the 20th century
無原則	unprincipled
無可	can't
無可匹敵	unsurpassed; unparalleled
無可奈何	have no way out; have no alternative; abbr. to 無奈|无奈[wu2 nai4]
無可奉告	(idiom) no comment
無可挑剔	excellent in every respect; flawless
無可挽回	irrevocable; the die is cast
無可救藥	(idiom) (of an illness) incurable; (of a person, behavior etc) incorrigible; beyond any possibility of correction
無可無不可	neither for nor against sth; indifferent
無可爭議	undeniable; uncontroversial
無可置疑	cannot be doubted (idiom)
無可非議	irreproachable (idiom); nothing blameworthy about it at all
無名	nameless; obscure
無名之輩	unknown person; nobody
無名小卒	insignificant soldier (idiom); a nobody; nonentity
無名戰士墓	Tomb of the Unknown Soldier
無名指	ring finger
無名氏	anonymous person
無名烈士墓	tomb of the unknown soldier
無名英雄	unnamed hero
無味	flavorless; unpalatable; odorless; dull; uninteresting
無咖啡因	decaffeinated; decaf
無品	fretless (stringed instrument)
無國界	without borders (used for organizations such as Médecins sans Frontières)
無國界料理	fusion cuisine (Tw)
無國界記者	Reporters Without Borders (pressure group)
無國界醫生	Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF charity); Doctors Without Borders
無土栽培	soilless cultivation (e.g. hydroponics)
無地自容	(idiom) ashamed and unable to show one's face
無垠	boundless; vast
無堅不摧	no stronghold one cannot overcome (idiom); to conquer every obstacle
無奇不有	nothing is too bizarre; full of extraordinary things
無奈	to have no alternative; frustrated; exasperated
無奸不商	all businessmen are evil (idiom)
無妨	no harm (in doing it); One might as well.; It won't hurt.
無孔不鑽	lit. leave no hole undrilled (idiom); to latch on to every opportunity
無字碑	stone tablet without inscription; blank stele
無定形碳	amorphous carbon
無害	harmless
無家可歸	(idiom) homeless
無容置疑	cannot be doubted (idiom)
無尾熊	koala
無尾猿	ape
無局	non-vulnerable (in bridge)
無巧不成書	curious coincidence
無已	endlessly; to have no choice
無師自通	self-taught; to learn without a teacher (idiom)
無常	variable; changeable; fickle
無干	to have nothing to do with
無幾	very little; hardly any
無序	disorderly; irregular; lack of order
無底	bottomless
無底坑	the bottomless pit (Hell in the Bible); pitless (elevator)
無底洞	bottomless pit
無度	immoderate; excessive; not knowing one's limits
無形	incorporeal; virtual; formless
無形中	imperceptibly; virtually
無形貿易	invisibles (trade)
無形輸出	invisible export
無影無蹤	(idiom) (to disappear) without a trace
無往不利	(idiom) to be successful in every endeavor
無後	(literary) to have no descendants; to have no son to continue one's lineage
無後坐力炮	recoilless rifle
無從	not to have access; beyond one's authority or capability
無從下手	not know where to start
無微不至	in every possible way (idiom); meticulous
無徵不信	without proof one can't believe it (idiom)
無心	unintentionally; not in the mood to
無心插柳	(idiom) (of a good outcome) unanticipated; serendipitous; fortuitous
無心插柳柳成陰	lit. idly poke a stick in the mud and it grows into a tree to shade you
無思無慮	(idiom) carefree; untroubled
無性	sexless; asexual (reproduction)
無性生殖	asexual reproduction
無性繁殖	asexual reproduction
無怨無悔	no complaints; to have no regrets
無怪	No wonder!; not surprising
無怪乎	no wonder (that...)
無恆	to lack patience
無恙	in good health
無恥	without any sense of shame; unembarrassed; shameless
無息	interest-free
無悔	to have no regrets
無患子	Sapindales
無情	pitiless; ruthless; merciless
無情無義	completely lacking any feeling or sense of justice (idiom); cold and ruthless
無惡不作	not to shrink from any crime (idiom); to commit any imaginable misdeed
無意	inadvertent; accidental; to have no intention of (doing sth)
無意中	accidentally; unintentionally; unexpectedly
無意識	unconscious; involuntary
無意間	inadvertently; unintentionally
無感	not felt or perceived; to feel nothing about; indifferent; unimpressed
無愧	to have a clear conscience; to feel no qualms; to be worthy of (sth)
無憂無慮	(idiom) carefree; without worries
無懈可擊	(idiom) impossible to fault; impeccable
無成	achieving nothing
無我	anatta (Buddhist concept of "non-self")
無所不包	(idiom) not excluding anything; all-encompassing
無所不在	omnipresent
無所不為	not stopping at anything; all manner of evil
無所不用其極	committing all manner of crimes; completely unscrupulous
無所不知	omniscient
無所不能	omnipotent
無所不至	to reach everywhere; to stop at nothing; to do one's utmost
無所不談	to talk about everything
無所不賣	to sell anything; to sell everything
無所事事	to have nothing to do; to idle one's time away (idiom)
無所作為	attempting nothing and accomplishing nothing (idiom); without any initiative or drive
無所屬	unaffiliated; non-party
無所用心	not paying attention to anything (idiom); to idle time away
無所畏忌	without any fear of consequences; totally devoid of scruples
無所謂	to be indifferent; not to matter; cannot be said to be
無所適從	not knowing which course to follow (idiom); at a loss what to do
無把握	uncertain
無拘無束	free and unconstrained (idiom); unfettered; unbuttoned
無措	helpless
無援	without support; helpless
無損	to do no harm (to sth); intact; (computing) lossless
無支祁	a water goblin in Chinese mythology usually depicted as a monkey
無政府主義	anarchism
無故	without cause or reason
無效	not valid; ineffective; in vain
無效社交	unproductive social interaction
無敵	unequalled; without rival; a paragon
無數	countless; numberless; innumerable
無明	avidya (Buddhism); ignorance; delusion
無時無刻	(idiom) (when followed by 不[bu4]) at no time; never (Note: 無時無刻不|无时无刻不[wu2 shi2 wu2 ke4 bu4] therefore means "at no time not ...", i.e. "at all times".)
無晶圓	fabless (semiconductor company)
無暇	too busy; to have no time for; fully occupied
無望	without hope; hopeless; without prospects
無期	unspecified period; in the indefinite future; no fixed time
無期別	to part for an unspecified period; to take leave from indefinitely
無期徒刑	life imprisonment
無核	nonnuclear; seedless (botany)
無核化	to make nuclear-free; to de-nuclearize
無核區	nuclear weapon-free zone
無條件	unconditional
無條件投降	unconditional surrender
無棣縣	Wudi, a county in Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
無業	unemployed; jobless; out of work
無業遊民	unemployed person; vagrant; rogue
無業閑散	unemployed and idle
無極	everlasting; unbounded
無極縣	Wuji, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
無機	inorganic (chemistry)
無機化學	inorganic chemistry
無機物	inorganic compound
無機肥	inorganic fertilizer
無機鹽	inorganic salt
無權	to have no right; to have no authority
無欲無求	(idiom) to be free of worldly desires and ambitions; to neither want nor seek (fame, profit, material gain etc)
無止盡	endless
無殼蝸牛	fig. people who cannot afford to buy their own house
無毒	harmless; innocuous; lit. not poisonous
無毒不丈夫	no poison, no great man (idiom); A great man has to be ruthless.
無比	incomparable; matchless
無毛	hairless
無氧	anaerobic
無水	anhydrous (chemistry); waterless; dehydrated
無法	unable to; incapable of
無法可施	nothing can be done (about it)
無法無天	(idiom) defiant of the law and lacking any sense of morality; lawless; out of control; unruly
無濟於事	(idiom) to no avail; of no use
無為	the Daoist doctrine of inaction; let things take their own course
無為市	Wuwei, a county-level city in Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
無煙	nonsmoking (e.g. environment)
無煙炭	smokeless coal
無煙煤	anthracite
無照	without a license; without a permit
無爭議	uncontroversial; accepted
無牌	unlicensed; unlabeled (goods)
無牙	toothless; (fig.) powerless; ineffectual
無物	nothing; empty
無牽無掛	(idiom) unburdened by obligations or attachments; carefree
無狀	insolence; insolent; ill-mannered
無猜	unsuspecting; innocent and without apprehension
無獨有偶	not alone but in pairs (idiom, usually derog.); not a unique occurrence
無理	irrational; unreasonable
無理取鬧	(idiom) to make trouble without reason; to be deliberately provocative
無理數	irrational number
無瑕	faultless; perfect
無生命	non-living; inanimate; lifeless
無產者	proletariat; non-propertied person
無產階級	proletariat
無用	useless; worthless
無用之樹	useless person (originally from Zhuangzi's "A Happy Excursion" 逍遙遊|逍遥游)
無由	to be unable (to do sth); no reason to ...; without rhyme or reason
無異	nothing other than; to differ in no way from; the same as
無疑	undoubtedly; without doubt; for sure
無疾而終	(lit.) to die without illness (idiom)
無病呻吟	(idiom) to moan and groan despite not being sick; to feign illness; to complain without cause; (of writing) to indulge in confected sentimentality
無病自灸	lit. to prescribe moxibustion for oneself when not ill; to cause oneself trouble with superfluous action
無症狀	asymptomatic
無痕	traceless
無痕模式	(computing) incognito mode
無痛	painless; pain-free
無的放矢	to shoot without aim (idiom); fig. to speak without thinking
無益	no good; not good for; not beneficial
無盡	endless; inexhaustible
無知	ignorant; ignorance
無知覺	senseless
無碼	unpixelated or uncensored (of video)
無礙	without inconvenience; unimpeded; unhindered
無神論	atheism
無神論者	atheist
無祿	to be unsalaried; to be unfortunate; death
無福消受	unfortunately cannot enjoy (idiom)
無禮	rude; rudely
無私	selfless; unselfish; disinterested
無秩序	disorder
無稽	nonsense
無稽之談	(idiom) complete nonsense
無窮	endless; boundless; inexhaustible
無窮大	(math.) infinity; infinite
無窮小	(math.) infinitesimal; infinitely small
無窮序列	infinite sequence
無窮無盡	(idiom) endless; boundless; infinite
無窮遠點	point at infinity (math.); infinitely distant point
無窮集	infinite set (math.)
無端	for no reason at all
無端端	for no reason
無符號	(computing) unsigned (having no sign bit and representing only non-negative values)
無筋麵粉	wheat starch
無算	(literary) innumerable; countless
無籽	seedless
無精打彩	dull and colorless (idiom); lacking vitality; not lively
無精打采	dispirited and downcast (idiom); listless; in low spirits; washed out
無精症	azoospermia (medicine)
無糖	sugar free
無紙化	paperless
無紙化辦公	paperless office
無結網	(textiles) knotless netting
無絲分裂	amitosis
無維度	dimensionless (math.)
無網格法	meshless method (numerical simulation); meshfree method
無線	wireless
無線熱點	Wi-Fi hotspot
無線網絡	wireless network; Wi-Fi
無線網路	(Tw) wireless network; Wi-Fi
無線電	radio; wireless (i.e. the technology used in radio telecommunication)
無線電廣播	radio broadcast
無線電接收機	receiver (radio)
無線電收發機	transceiver; radio frequency receiver, broadcaster or relay
無線電波	radio wave
無線電話	radio telephony; wireless telephone
無緣	to have no opportunity; no way (of doing sth); no chance
無緣無故	(idiom) no cause or reason; completely uncalled for
無縫	seamless
無縫接軌	(Tw) to transition smoothly with no gap, interruption or adjustment period; to move directly from one position, stage or relationship to another; to dovetail seamlessly
無縫連接	seamless connection
無缺	whole
無罪	innocent; guileless; not guilty (of crime)
無罪抗辯	plea of not guilty
無罪推定	presumption of innocence (law)
無義	without meaning; nonsense; immoral
無翅	wingless
無聊	bored; boring; senseless
無聲	soundless; silent
無聲無息	wordless and uncommunicative (idiom); without speaking; taciturn
無能	incompetence; inability; incapable
無能為力	(idiom) powerless to do anything about it
無脊椎	invertebrate
無脊椎動物	invertebrate
無腦	brainless
無腳蟹	helpless lonely person
無與倫比	incomparable
無船承運人	non-vessel-owning common carrier (NVOCC) (transportation)
無色	colorless
無花果	fig (Ficus carica)
無菌	sterile; aseptic
無菌性	aseptic
無葉風扇	bladeless fan
無著	(of income etc) to be unassured; to lack a reliable source
無薪假	unpaid leave; leave without pay
無處	nowhere
無處不在	to be everywhere
無處容身	nowhere to hide
無虞	not to be worried about; all taken care of
無表情	expressionless; wooden (expression); blank (face)
無補	of no avail; not helping in the least
無襯線	(typography) sans serif
無視	to ignore; to disregard
無解	to have no solution
無言	to remain silent; to have nothing to say
無言以對	to be left speechless; unable to respond
無言可對	unable to reply (idiom); left speechless; at a loss for words
無計可施	(lit.) to have no strategy to apply (idiom)
無記名	(of a document) not bearing a name
無話不說	(of close friends etc) to tell each other everything
無話不談	not to hold anything back (idiom)
無話可說	to have nothing to say (idiom)
無語	to remain silent; to have nothing to say; (coll.) speechless
無誤	verified; unmistaken
無論	no matter what or how; regardless of whether...
無論何事	anything; whatever
無論何人	whoever
無論何時	whenever
無論何處	anywhere; wherever
無論如何	(idiom) whatever the case; in any event; no matter what; by all possible means
無謂	pointless; meaningless; unnecessarily
無貨	out of stock; product unavailable
無賴	hoodlum; rascal; rogue
無趣	dull; vapid; colorless
無足輕重	insignificant
無跡可尋	(idiom) to leave no trace; to have no detectable clues or signs
無路可走	nowhere to go; at the end of one's tether
無路可退	without a retreat route; caught in a dead end
無路可逃	no way out; nowhere to go; trapped beyond hope of rescue
無蹤	(to vanish) without a trace
無軌	trackless
無軌電車	trolleybus
無辜	blameless; innocent; the innocent
無農藥	without agricultural chemicals; pesticide-free
無連接	connectionless
無道	tyrannical; brutal (regime)
無遠弗屆	to extend all over the globe (idiom); far-reaching
無遺	completely; fully; without omission
無邊	without boundary; not bordered
無邊無際	(idiom) boundless; limitless
無邪	without guilt
無醇啤酒	low-alcohol beer; non-alcoholic beer (typically, 0.5% ABV or less)
無量	measureless; immeasurable
無量壽	boundless life (expression of good wishes)
無針注射器	jet injector
無鉤絛蟲	beef tapeworm
無鋼圈	wireless (bra)
無錫市	Wuxi, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
無間	very close; no gap between them; continuously
無關	unrelated; having nothing to do (with sth else)
無關痛癢	(idiom) to not affect sb; irrelevant; of no importance; insignificant
無關緊要	indifferent; insignificant
無限	unlimited; unbounded
無限制	limitless; unrestricted
無限小	infinitesimal; infinitely small
無限小數	infinitesimal; infinite decimal expansion
無限期	indefinitely; of unlimited duration
無限風光在險峰	The boundless vista is at the perilous peak (proverb)
無際	limitless; boundless
無障礙	barrier-free; (esp.) accessible (to people with a disability)
無雙	incomparable; matchless; unique
無需	needless
無霜期	frost-free period
無非	only; nothing else
無須	need not; not obliged to; not necessarily
無頜	jawless (primitive fish)
無頭蒼蠅	headless fly (a metaphor for sb who is rushing around frantically)
無題	untitled
無顏見江東父老	(idiom) to be unable to return to one's hometown due to the shame of failure (originally referred to Xiang Yu 項羽|项羽[Xiang4 Yu3], who chose not to retreat to Jiangdong after his humiliating defeat)
無風三尺浪	lit. large waves in windless conditions (idiom)
無風不起浪	lit. without wind there cannot be waves (idiom); there must be a reason
無麩質	gluten-free
無麩質飲食	gluten-free diet
無黨派	politically unaffiliated; independent (candidate)
無齒翼龍	Pteranodon (genus of pterosaur)
焢	(Tw) to roast; (Tw) to braise until tender
焢肉	(Tw) slow-braised pork belly
焦	burnt; scorched; charred
焦作市	Jiaozuo, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
焦化	to coke
焦土	scorched earth
焦外	bokeh (photography)
焦急	anxiety; anxious
焦慮	anxious; worried; apprehensive
焦慮不安	worried too much
焦慮症	neurosis; anxiety
焦油	tar
焦灼	(literary) deeply worried
焦炙	to scorch; to burn to charcoal; sick with worry
焦炭	coke (processed coal used in blast furnace)
焦爐	coking furnace
焦糖	caramel
焦耳	(loanword) joule
焦距	focal length; focal distance
焦躁	fretful; impatient
焦頭爛額	lit. badly burned about the head (from trying to put out a fire) (idiom)
焦香	burnt aroma
焦黃	sallow; yellow and withered; sickly
焦點	(lit. and fig.) focal point; focus
焮	heat; flame; inflammation
焯	to blanch; to parboil
焯水	to blanch; to parboil
焰	flame
焰火	fireworks
然	correct; right; so
然並卵	(Internet slang) ultimately useless
然則	that being the case; then; in that case
然後	then; after that; afterwards
然而	however; but; yet
然頃	in a short time; soon; before long
然鵝	(Internet slang for 然而[ran2 er2]) however
煁	brazier
煃	fiery; blazing
煅	to calcine
煅燒	to calcine (purify by heating)
煅爐	forge; fig. extremely hot environment
煅石膏	plaster of Paris; calcined gypsum
煆	a raging fire
煇	bright; glorious
煉	to refine; to smelt
煉丹	to concoct pills of immortality
煉丹術	maker of immortality pill; concocting magic pills
煉之未定	to spend a long time thinking about sth while unable to reach a decision
煉乳	to condense milk (by evaporation); condensed milk
煉化	to refine; refining (e.g. oil, chemicals etc)
煉句	to polish a phrase
煉奶	condensed milk
煉字	to craft one's words
煉油	to refine crude oil; to render animal fat
煉油廠	oil refinery
煉焦	coking; the process of producing coke from coal
煉焦爐	coking furnace
煉獄	purgatory
煉珍	a delicacy (food)
煉製	(chemistry) to refine
煉金術	alchemy
煉金術士	alchemist
煉鋼	to make steel; steelmaking
煉鋼廠	steel mill
煉鐵	smelting iron
煉鐵廠	iron foundry
煋	(literary) (of a fire) fierce; intense; blazing
煌	brilliant
煌熠	bright
煍	to color by smoke
煎	to pan fry; to sauté
煎炒	to lightly fry
煎炸	to fry
煎炸油	frying oil
煎炸食品	fried food
煎熬	to suffer; to torture; to torment
煎牛扒	beef steak
煎蛋	fried egg
煎蛋卷	omelet
煎豬扒	pork steak
煎鍋	frying pan
煎餃	fried dumpling
煎餅	jianbing, a savory Chinese crêpe; pancake
煏	(dialect) to dry by a fire
煐	(used in names); British thermal unit (BTU)
煒	glowing; bright; brilliant
煓	(literary) (of a fire) lively; blazing
煙	cigarette or pipe tobacco; smoke; mist
煙台市	Yantai, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
煙囪	chimney; smokestack; stovepipe
煙圈	smoke ring
煙土	raw opium
煙塵	smoke and dust; air pollution
煙屁	cigarette butt
煙屁股	cigarette butt
煙幕	smokescreen; fig. a diversion
煙幕彈	smoke bomb; smoke grenade
煙廠	cigarette factory
煙彈	vape pod
煙徑	misty lane
煙捲	cigarette; cigar
煙捲兒	cigarette
煙斗	(smoking) pipe
煙柳鶯	(bird species of China) smoky warbler (Phylloscopus fuligiventer)
煙槍	opium pipe
煙民	smoker; tobacco user
煙氣	smoke
煙波	mist covered water
煙海	the vast ocean
煙消雲散	(idiom) to vanish like smoke in thin air; to disappear
煙火	smoke and fire; cooked food; (literary) beacon fire
煙火氣	cooking smells; (fig.) lively atmosphere
煙灰	cigarette ash
煙灰缸	ashtray
煙熏妝	smoky-effect makeup around the eyes
煙熏眼	smoky eyes look (cosmetics)
煙燻	smoke; to fumigate
煙燻火燎	smoke and baking fire (idiom); surrounded by flames and smoke
煙癮	the urge to smoke; tobacco addiction
煙突	chimney
煙筒	chimney; stovepipe; smokestack
煙管	smoking pipe
煙管麵	elbow pasta
煙絲	loose tobacco; fine-cut tobacco
煙缸	ashtray
煙肉	bacon; smoked ham
煙腹毛腳燕	(bird species of China) Asian house martin (Delichon dasypus)
煙花	fireworks; prostitute (esp. in Yuan theater)
煙花債	involved in a love affair
煙花場	brothel (esp. in Yuan theater)
煙花女	prostitute (esp. in Yuan theater)
煙花寨	brothel (esp. in Yuan theater)
煙花巷	red-light district
煙花市	(old) red-light district; brothel
煙花廠	firework factory
煙花柳巷	red-light district
煙花爆竹	fireworks (i.e. pyrotechnic devices, not the display they produce)
煙花簿	catalog of prostitutes (esp. in Yuan theater)
煙花粉黛	woman; prostitute; lovemaking
煙花行院	brothel (esp. in Yuan theater)
煙花陣	brothel (esp. in Yuan theater)
煙花風月	refers to lovemaking (idiom)
煙草	tobacco
煙葉	leaf tobacco
煙袋	tobacco pipe
煙豆	variable glycine (Glycine tabacina), a scrambling plant in the bean family
煙酒	tobacco and alcohol
煙酒不沾	abstaining from liquor and tobacco
煙酸	niacin (vitamin B3); 3-Pyridinecarboxylic acid C6H5NO2; nicotinic acid
煙雨	misty rain; drizzle
煙霞	haze
煙霧	smoke; mist; vapor
煙霧劑	aerosol
煙霧彈	smoke bomb; smoke grenade
煙霧症	moyamoya disease (rare brain disease first diagnosed in Japan)
煙霾	smoke; pollution
煙靄	mist and clouds
煙鬼	heavy smoker; chain smoker
煙黑叉尾海燕	(bird species of China) Wilson's storm petrel (Oceanites oceanicus)
煙點	smoke point (of a cooking oil)
煚	fire
煜	brilliant; glorious
煜煜	dazzling; bright
煜熠	bright
煝	be radiant; flaming; drought
煞	to terminate; to cut short; to bring to a stop
煞住	to brake; to stop; to forbid
煞到	(Tw) to like; to fall in love with
煞尾	to finish off; to wind up
煞性子	to vent anger
煞是	extremely; very
煞有介事	to make a show of being very much in earnest (idiom)
煞氣	to vent one's anger on (an innocent party); to take it out on (sb)
煞白	deathly white
煞神	demon; fiend
煞筆	to stop one's pen; to break off writing
煞費苦心	to take a lot of trouble (idiom); painstaking
煞賬	to settle an account
煞車	to brake (when driving)
煞風景	to be an eyesore; (fig.) to spoil the fun; to be a wet blanket
煟	radiance of fire
煠	to fry in fat or oil; to scald
煢	alone; desolate
煢煢孑立	to stand all alone
煤	coal
煤儲量	coal reserves
煤屑	coal dust; coal slack
煤層	a coal bed; a coal seam
煤層氣	coalbed methane
煤山雀	(bird species of China) coal tit (Periparus ater)
煤氣	coal gas; gas (fuel)
煤油	kerosene
煤渣	slack
煤灰	soot
煤炭	coal
煤焦油	coal tar
煤爐	coal stove
煤球	charcoal briquette
煤田	a coalfield
煤矸石	(mining) coal gangue
煤磚	briquette
煤礦	coal mine; coal seam
煤箱	coal box
煤製氣	coal gasification
煤製油	coal liquefaction
煥	(bound form) shining; glowing; lustrous
煥新	to renew; to refresh
煥然一新	to look completely new (idiom); brand new; changed beyond recognition
煥發	to shine; to glow; to irradiate
煦	balmy; nicely warm; cozy
煦仁孑義	petty kindness
煦暖	to warm; warming
煦煦	kind; gracious; benevolent
照	according to; in accordance with; to shine
照亮	to illuminate; to light up; lighting
照付	to pay as charged
照例	as a rule; as usual; usually
照做	to do as instructed; to comply
照像機	camera
照單全收	to accept without question; to take sth at face value
照壁	a screen wall across the gate of a house (for privacy)
照妖鏡	magic mirror for revealing goblins
照射	to shine on; to light up; to irradiate
照常	as usual
照度	level of illumination; (physics) illuminance
照得	seeing that
照應	to look after; to take care of; to attend to
照抄	to copy word for word
照排	phototypesetting; photocomposition
照搬	to copy; to imitate
照料	to tend; to take care of sb
照明	lighting; illumination; to light up
照明彈	flare; star shell
照映	to shine; to illuminate
照會	a diplomatic note
照本宣科	a wooden word-by-word reading
照樣	as before; (same) as usual; in the same manner
照準	request granted (formal usage in old document); to aim (gun)
照燒	teriyaki (Japanese cooking technique)
照片	photograph
照片子	to take an X-ray
照片底版	a photographic plate
照理	according to reason; usually; in the normal course of events
照登	to publish unaltered
照發	approved for distribution
照直	directly; straight; straight ahead
照相	to take a photograph
照相排版	phototypesetting; photocomposition
照相機	camera
照相館	photo studio
照看	to look after; to attend to; to have in care
照眼	glare; dazzling
照章	according to the regulations
照管	to look after; to provide for
照耀	to shine; to illuminate
照舊	as before; as in the past
照葫蘆畫瓢	lit. to draw a dipper with a gourd as a model (idiom)
照說	normally; ordinarily speaking
照護	care; treatment (e.g. nursing care); to look after
照貓畫虎	lit. drawing a tiger using a cat as a model (idiom); fig. to follow a model and get things more or less right but without capturing the spirit of the subject
照買不誤	to keep on buying (a product) regardless (of price increases, adverse publicity etc)
照辦	to follow the rules; to do as instructed; to play by the book
照進度	on schedule
照鏡子	to look in the mirror
照面	to meet face-to-face
照顧	to take care of; to show consideration; to attend to
照騙	(Internet slang) deceptive photo (pun on 照片[zhao4 pian4]) (esp. one misleadingly presenting sth in a favorable light)
煨	to simmer; to roast in ashes
煩	to feel vexed; to bother; to trouble
煩亂	anxious; agitated
煩人	to annoy; annoying; irritating
煩冗	diverse and complicated (of one's affairs)
煩冤	frustrated; agitated; distressed
煩勞	to put sb to trouble (of doing sth); vexation; inconvenience
煩心	annoying; vexing
煩心事	troubles; worries; sth on one's mind
煩悶	moody; gloomy
煩惱	to be worried; to be distressed; worries
煩憂	to worry; to fret
煩擾	to bother; to disturb; to vex
煩瑣	tedious; convoluted; fiddly
煩膩	fed up
煩請	(courteous) would you please ...
煩躁	jittery; twitchy; fidgety
煩雜	many and disorderly; muddled
煬	molten; smelt
煮	to cook; to boil
煮沸	to boil
煮法	cooking method
煮熟	to boil thoroughly; to cook thoroughly
煮熟的鴨子飛了	the cooked duck flew away (proverb)
煮蛋	boiled egg
煮蛋計時器	egg timer
煮豆燃萁	burning beanstalks to cook the beans (idiom); to cause internecine strife
煮鍋	cooking pot
煮開	to boil (food)
煮飯	to cook
煰	dry (old variant of 燥[zao4])
煲	deep cooking pot; to cook slowly in such a pot
煲湯	to make soup; slow-simmered soup
煲電話粥	to talk endlessly on the phone
煲飯	to cook rice
煳	burnt; to char
煸	to stir-fry before broiling or stewing
煸炒	to stir-fry in a small quantity of oil
煺	to pluck poultry or depilate pigs using hot water
煻	to warm; to toast
煽	to fan into a flame; to incite
煽動	to incite; to instigate
煽動性	provocative
煽動顛覆國家政權	incitement to subvert state power (criminal charge used to gag free speech)
煽動顛覆國家罪	crime of conspiring to overthrow the state
煽情	to stir up emotion; to arouse sympathy; moving
煽陰風	to raise an ill wind
煽風點火	(idiom) to fan the flames; to incite people; to stir up trouble
熀	bright; dazzling
熁	(meaning uncertain)
熄	to extinguish; to put out (fire); to quench
熄滅	to stop burning; to go out (of fire); to die out
熄火	(of fire, lamp etc) to go out; to put out (fire); (fig.) to die down
熄燈	turn out the lights; lights out
熇	dry
熉	(yellow color)
熊	bear; (coll.) to scold; to rebuke; (coll.) weak; incapable
熊倪	Xiong Ni (1974-), Chinese diving athlete
熊包	worthless person; good-for-nothing
熊孩子	(dialect) little devil; brat
熊市	bear market
熊成基	Xiong Chengji (1887-1910), anti-Qing revolutionary and martyr
熊抱	bear hug; to give (sb) a bear-hug
熊掌	bear paw (as food)
熊本	Kumamoto (prefecture and city in Japan)
熊熊	raging; flaming
熊狸	binturong; bearcat
熊猴	Assamese macaque
熊皮帽	bearskin hat
熊瞎子	bear; bruin
熊羆	fierce fighters; valiant warriors
熊耳山	Mt Xiong'er national geological park in 棗莊|枣庄[Zao3 zhuang1], south Shandong
熊腰虎背	waist of a bear and back of a tiger; tough and stocky build
熊膽	bear gall (used in TCM)
熊膽草	Conyza blinii
熊蜂	bumblebee
熊親戚	(coll.) busybody relative
熊貓	panda
熊貓眼	to have dark circles under one's eyes; to have eyes like a panda
熊貓血	(coll.) Rh-negative blood type
熏	to smoke; to fumigate; to assail the nostrils
熏天	overpowering (of a stench)
熏染	to exert a gradual influence; to nurture; a corrupting influence
熏烤	to smoke; to cure over a wood fire
熏製	to smoke; to cure over a fire
熏陶成性	(idiom) nurture makes second nature
熏風	warm south wind
熏香	incense
熒	a glimmer; glimmering; twinkling
熒光	fluorescence; fluorescent light
熒光屏	fluorescent screen; screen (of a TV or monitor etc)
熒光幕	screen (of a TV, computer etc) (Tw)
熒光棒	glow stick
熒光燈	a fluorescent light; a fluorescent lamp
熒光筆	highlighter pen; fluorescent marker
熒屏	fluorescent screen; TV screen
熒幕	TV screen
熒惑	to bewilder; to dazzle and confuse; the planet Mars
熒惑星	Mars in traditional Chinese astronomy
熒熒	a glimmer; twinkling (of stars, phosphorescence, candlelight)
熔	to smelt; to fuse
熔化	to melt (of ice, metals etc)
熔化點	melting point
熔岩	(geology) lava
熔岩流	lava flow
熔岩湖	lava lake
熔岩穹丘	magma dome
熔斷	(of fuse wire) to melt; to blow; (fig.) to halt stock trading
熔斷機制	(finance) trading curb; circuit breaker
熔斷絲	fuse wire
熔核	weld nugget
熔毀	meltdown; (of nuclear fuel) to melt down
熔渣	slag (smelting)
熔漿	lava, magma or other molten material (metal, glass etc)
熔煉	to smelt
熔爐	smelting furnace; forge
熔礦爐	furnace
熔融	to melt; to fuse
熔解	fusion
熔點	melting point
熗	to briefly boil (a vegetable etc), then dress with soy sauce, oil, vinegar etc
熘	quick-fry; sim. to stir-frying, but with cornstarch added
熙	(used in names); (bound form) (literary) bright; prosperous
熙來攘往	a place buzzing with activity (idiom)
熙提	stilb, unit of luminance
熙攘	restless
熙熙攘攘	(idiom) bustling with activity
熛	blaze; flame flaring
熜	torch made from hemp straw (old)
熟	ripe; mature; thoroughly cooked; done; familiar; acquainted
熟人	acquaintance; friend
熟人熟事	(idiom) to be familiar with; to have regular dealings with
熟化	to cure; to mature
熟啤酒	pasteurized beer
熟地	cultivated land
熟女	stylish and confident middle-aged woman
熟字	familiar words; known Chinese character
熟客	frequent visitor
熟思	deliberation
熟悉	to be familiar with; to know well
熟慮	careful thought
熟成	(of wine, cheese, beef etc) to age; to mature
熟手	skilled person; an experienced hand
熟料	worked material; chamotte (refractory ceramic material)
熟炒	to stir-fry ingredients that have been cooked or partially cooked
熟男	middle-aged man (often with connotations of confidence, success and attractiveness)
熟睡	asleep; sleeping soundly
熟知	to be well acquainted with
熟石灰	slaked lime; hydrated lime
熟石膏	plaster of Paris; calcined gypsum
熟稔	(literary) to be very familiar with (sb or sth); well acquainted with; fully conversant with
熟絡	familiar; close
熟絲	silk raw material (prepared by boiling in soap)
熟練	practiced; proficient; skilled
熟練工	skilled worker; journeyman
熟練工人	skilled worker; journeyman
熟習	to understand profoundly; well-versed; skillful
熟能生巧	with familiarity you learn the trick (idiom); practice makes perfect
熟荒	abandoned land
熟菜	cooked food (ready to eat)
熟視無睹	(idiom) to turn a blind eye to (sth one sees regularly)
熟記	to learn by heart; to memorize
熟詞僻義	uncommon meaning of a common word
熟語	idiom
熟諳	to know sth fluently; well-versed
熟識	to be well acquainted with; to know well
熟讀	to read and reread sth until one is familiar with it
熟路	familiar road; beaten track
熟透	completely ripe; ripened; well-cooked
熟道	familiar road; well-trodden path
熟道兒	familiar road; well-trodden path
熟鐵	wrought iron
熟門熟路	familiar
熟食	cooked food; prepared food; deli food
熟食店	deli; delicatessen
熟齡	(neologism) middle age; mature age; prime years
熠	to glow; to flash
熠煜	to shine; to glitter
熠熠	glistening; bright
熠爍	to twinkle; to glimmer; to glisten
熠耀	to shine; to glitter
熤	(person)
熥	to heat up (cooked food) by baking or steaming; Taiwan pr. [tong1]
熨	reconciled; smooth
熨斗	clothes iron
熨法	application of a hot compress (TCM)
熨燙	to iron (clothes)
熬	to cook on a slow fire; to extract by heating; to decoct; to endure
熬出頭	to break clear of all the troubles and hardships; to achieve success
熬夜	to stay up late or all night
熬更守夜	to stay up through the night (idiom)
熬煎	suffering; torture
熬稃	(old) popped glutinous rice (term used during the Song dynasty)
熬膏	to simmer to a paste
熬藥	to decoct medicinal herbs
熬頭兒	(coll.) the reward of one's efforts
熯	to dry with fire
熰	copious smoke produced by smoldering firewood; half alight
熱	to warm up; to heat up; hot (of weather)
熱中子	thermal neutron
熱乎	warm; hot; affectionate
熱乎乎	warm; (of food) piping hot; (fig.) roused to warm feelings
熱乾麵	noodles served hot, with toppings including sesame paste and soy sauce – popular in Wuhan as a breakfast dish or late-night snack
熱值	calorific value
熱傳導	heat transfer; thermal conduction
熱傷風	summer cold
熱兵器	weapon using gunpowder or explosives (opposite: 冷兵器[leng3 bing1 qi4])
熱函	enthalpy; heat content (thermodynamics)
熱切	fervent
熱力	heat
熱力學	thermodynamics
熱力學溫度	thermodynamic temperature (temperature above absolute zero)
熱力學溫標	thermodynamic temperature scale (in degrees Kelvin, measured above absolute zero)
熱動平衡	thermodynamic equilibrium
熱吻	to kiss passionately
熱土	homeland; hot piece of real estate
熱壓	(manufacturing) hot pressing
熱天	hot day
熱容	thermal capacity
熱寂	(physics) heat death of the universe
熱射病	heatstroke
熱對流	heat convection
熱導	thermal conduction
熱導率	thermal conductivity; heat conductivity
熱層	(meteorology) thermosphere
熱島效應	urban heat island effect
熱帖	hot thread (in an Internet forum)
熱帶	the tropics; tropical
熱帶地區	the tropics
熱帶雨林	tropical rain forest
熱帶風暴	tropical storm
熱帶魚	tropical fish
熱度	level of heat; (fig.) zeal; fervor
熱得快	immersion heater; electric heater for liquid
熱心	enthusiastic; ardent; zealous
熱心腸	warmhearted; willing to help others
熱忱	zeal; enthusiasm; ardor
熱情	cordial; enthusiastic; passion
熱情果	sweet granadilla (Passiflora ligularis)
熱情款待	to provide warm hospitality
熱情洋溢	brimming with enthusiasm (idiom); full of warmth
熱愛	to love ardently; to adore
熱戀	to fall head over heels in love; to be passionately in love
熱成像	thermal imaging
熱成層	thermosphere (nonstandard synonym of 熱層|热层[re4 ceng2])
熱戰	hot war
熱捧	a craze; a popular wave; a hit with the public
熱插拔	hot swapping
熱搜	(Internet) popular search query
熱播	to broadcast (or be broadcast) to an enthusiastic audience; to broadcast (or be broadcast) and get high ratings
熱播劇	popular show (on TV or other media)
熱敏	heat-sensitive; thermal (printing)
熱敏紙	thermal paper
熱敷	to apply a hot compress
熱敷布	hot compress
熱昏	to be overcome by the heat
熱映	(of a film or TV show) currently screening as a popular hit
熱望	to aspire
熱核	thermonuclear
熱核反應堆	thermal reactor
熱核武器	fusion weapon; thermonuclear weapon
熱核聚變反應	thermonuclear fusion reaction
熱機	heat engine
熱比亞	(name) Rabiye or Rebiya
熱比亞·卡德爾	Rebiya Kadeer (1946–), Uyghur businesswoman and activist, imprisoned 1999–2005, then president of the World Uyghur Congress
熱比婭	(name) Rabiye or Rebiya
熱比婭·卡德爾	Rebiya Kadeer (1946–), Uyghur businesswoman and activist, imprisoned from 1999 to 2005, later president of the World Uyghur Congress
熱氣	steam; heat
熱氣球	hot air balloon
熱氣騰騰	piping hot
熱水	hot water
熱水器	water heater
熱水澡	hot bath or shower
熱水瓶	thermos bottle; vacuum bottle; hot water dispenser (appliance)
熱水袋	hot-water bottle
熱河	Rehe, Qing dynasty province abolished in 1955 and divided among Hebei, Liaoning and Inner Mongolia
熱泵	heat pump
熱浪	heat wave
熱淚	hot tears
熱淚盈眶	eyes brimming with tears of excitement (idiom); extremely moved
熱源	heat source
熱潮	wave of enthusiasm; craze; upsurge
熱火朝天	in full swing (idiom); (in a) frenzy; buzzing with activity
熱炒	stir-fried dish (Tw)
熱炒熱賣	lit. to sell hot food freshly cooked; fig. to teach what one has just learned
熱烈	enthusiastic; ardent; warm
熱焓	enthalpy; heat content (thermodynamics)
熱熔膠	hot-melt adhesive; hot glue
熱燙	to burn
熱爾韋	Gervais (name); Paul Gervais (1816-1879), French geologist
熱狗	hot dog (loanword)
熱病	fever; pyrexia
熱痙攣	heat cramps
熱管	heat pipe
熱紅酒	mulled wine
熱絡	intimate; friendly; warm
熱線	hotline (communications link)
熱縮管	heat shrink tubing (aka heatshrink) (shrinkable plastic tube used to insulate wires)
熱能	heat energy
熱脈衝	thermal pulse
熱脹冷縮	thermal expansion and contraction
熱腸	warmhearted; enthusiastic
熱臉貼冷屁股	to show warm feelings but meet with cold rebuke (idiom)
熱茶	hot tea
熱蓬蓬	steaming (hot)
熱處理	hot treatment (e.g. of metal)
熱血	hot blood; warm-blooded (animal); endothermic (physiology)
熱血沸騰	(idiom) to be fired up; to have one's blood racing; to be burning (with excitement, passion, anger etc)
熱衰竭	heat exhaustion
熱衷	to feel strongly about; to be fond of; obsession
熱補	hot patching (of insulating material in a furnace)
熱褲	hot pants
熱解	thermal cleavage (i.e. sth splits when heated)
熱評	popular comment; trending comment
熱詞	buzzword
熱誠	devotion; fervor
熱議	to discuss passionately; heated debate
熱賣	to sell strongly; to be in great demand
熱賣品	hot-selling property
熱身	to warm up (sports); (fig.) to prepare; to get in condition
熱身賽	warm-up match; a friendly
熱軋	(metallurgy) hot-rolled; hot-rolling
熱輻射	thermal radiation
熱辣辣	burning hot; scorching; (of food) spicy hot
熱那亞	Genoa
熱釋光	thermoluminescence
熱量	heat; quantity of heat; calorific value
熱量單位	thermal unit; unit of heat
熱銷	to sell well; hot-selling
熱錢	(finance) hot money
熱鍋上的螞蟻	(like) a cat on a hot tin roof; anxious; agitated
熱鍵	hotkey; keyboard shortcut
熱門	popular; hot; in vogue
熱門貨	goods in great demand
熱電	pyroelectric
熱電偶	thermocouple
熱電廠	thermoelectric power plant
熱風槍	heat gun
熱食	hot food
熱飲	hot drink
熱香餅	pancake
熱騰騰	steaming hot; (fig.) bustling; hectic
熱鬧	bustling with noise and excitement; lively
熱點	hot spot; point of special interest
熲	blaze; bright
熳	used in 爛熳|烂熳[lan4 man4]
熵	entropy (character created in 1923)
熸	to extinguish (of fire)
熹	bright; warm
熹平石經	Xiping steles, calligraphic work on carved steles of the Eastern Han Dynasty (25-220 AD)
熾	to burn; to blaze; splendid
熾烈	burning fiercely; flaming; blazing
熾熱	red-hot; glowing; blazing
熾盛	ablaze (fire); intense (anger, desire etc); prosperous
熿	brilliant
燀	to make a fire
燁	blaze of fire; glorious
燂	to heat; to scorch
燃	to burn; to ignite; to light
燃放	to light; to set off (firecrackers etc)
燃料	fuel
燃料循環	fuel cycle
燃料油	fuel oil
燃料芯塊	fuel pellets
燃料電池	fuel cell
燃氣	fuel gas (coal gas, natural gas, methane etc)
燃氣輪機	gas turbine
燃氣電廠	gas fired power station
燃油	fuel oil
燃油艙	fuel tank (of a ship)
燃油車	fuel-powered car; internal-combustion vehicle
燃煤	coal fuel
燃煤鍋爐	coal burning boiler
燃燈佛	Dipamkara Buddha, the former Buddha before Shakyamuni Buddha and the bringer of lights
燃燒	to ignite; to combust; to burn
燃燒劑	incendiary agent
燃燒匙	deflagrating spoon; combustion spoon
燃燒彈	fire bomb; incendiary device
燃燒瓶	Molotov cocktail
燃爆	to cause to explode; to fire; to set off
燃眉	to burn one's eyebrows; fig. desperately serious situation
燃眉之急	lit. the fire burns one's eyebrows (idiom); fig. desperate situation
燃素說	phlogiston theory
燃耗	fuel consumption
燃脂	to burn fat
燃起	to ignite; to light
燃香	to burn incense
燃點	to ignite; to set fire to; to light
燈	lamp; light; lantern
燈下黑	(lit.) it's dark right under the lamp
燈光	(stage) lighting; light
燈塔	lighthouse
燈塔守	lighthouse keeper
燈塔市	Dengta, a county-level city in Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
燈塔水母	immortal jellyfish (Turritopsis dohrnii)
燈帶	LED strip light
燈心	lampwick
燈心草	rush (botany); Juncaceae
燈會	carnival during the Lantern Festival, with lantern displays and traditional folk performances such as stilt walking and lion dance
燈柱	lamppost
燈條	LED strip light
燈泡	light bulb
燈火	lights
燈火通明	brightly lit
燈珠	LED lamp bead; small light bulb
燈盞	lantern; uncovered oil lamp
燈管	fluorescent light
燈節	the Lantern Festival (15th of first month of lunar calendar)
燈籠	lantern
燈籠果	cape gooseberry; Peruvian ground-cherry; Physalis peruviana
燈籠花	Chinese enkianthus
燈籠褲	bloomers; plus fours; knickerbockers
燈籠魚	lantern fish
燈紅酒綠	lanterns red, wine green (idiom); feasting and pleasure-seeking
燈絲	filament (in a lightbulb)
燈罩	cover of lamp; lampshade; glass cover of oil lamp
燈臺	lampstand
燈芯絨	(textiles) corduroy
燈草	the spongy, white pulp inside the stem of rush plants, used as a wick for oil lamps
燈蕊	lamp wick
燈號	flashing light; indicator light
燈蛾	moth
燈謎	riddles written on lanterns (e.g. for the Lantern Festival at the end of Chinese New Year)
燈頭	electric light socket; burner (component of a kerosene lamp)
燉	to stew
燉煮	to stew
燉肉	to stew meat; stewed meat
燉鍋	stew pot; stew pan; saucepan
燉飯	risotto
燊	brisk; vigorous (of fire)
燋	to cauterize; to scorch
燎	to burn; to set afire
燎原	to start a prairie fire
燎泡	blister (caused by burns)
燏	radiance of fire
燒	to burn; to set on fire
燒傷	burn (injury)
燒利市	(old) to burn paper money as an offering
燒到	to have a fever reaching (a certain temperature)
燒包	to forget oneself in extravagance; to burn money
燒味	siu mei; Cantonese-style barbecue (roasted meats, such as pork, duck or chicken, seasoned and cooked to a crispy, flavorful finish)
燒埋	to bury; funeral rites
燒夷彈	incendiary bomb
燒寫器	programmer (electronics)
燒屏	(electronics) screen burn-in
燒心	to worry
燒杯	beaker (glassware)
燒死	to burn to death
燒毛	(textiles) to singe
燒水	to heat water; to boil water
燒水壺	kettle
燒火	to light a fire for cooking
燒火棍	stick or rod used to tend a fire
燒灼	to burn; to scorch
燒灼傷	burn (injury); scorching
燒灼感	burning pain
燒灼疼	burning pain
燒炭	to manufacture charcoal
燒烤	barbecue; to roast
燒烤醬	barbecue sauce
燒焊	to weld
燒焦	to burn; to scorch; burned
燒煤	to burn coal
燒煮	to cook
燒燬	to destroy (or be destroyed) by fire
燒瓶	laboratory flask
燒硬	to fire (pottery)
燒紅	to heat until red-hot
燒紙	to burn paper offerings (as part of religious ceremony)
燒結	to sinter; to agglomerate ore by burning
燒胎	burnout; peel out
燒腦	(neologism, attested by 2016) (coll.) (of a situation, problem or piece of content) intensely demanding on the brain; brain-bending
燒臘	siu mei (燒味|烧味[shao1 wei4]) made from cured meat 臘肉|腊肉[la4 rou4]
燒茄子	stewed eggplant
燒茶	to make tea
燒荒	to clear waste land or forest by burning; slash-and-burn (agriculture)
燒菜	to cook
燒製	to fire (in a kiln)
燒賣	shumai (shao mai) steamed dumpling; also written 燒麥|烧麦[shao1 mai4]
燒酒	name of a famous Tang dynasty wine; same as 白酒[bai2 jiu3]
燒錄	to burn (a CD or DVD)
燒錢	to burn joss paper; (fig.) to flush money down the toilet
燒鍋	a still (for distilling alcohol)
燒開	to boil
燒餅	baked sesame seed-coated cake
燒香	to burn incense
燒香拜佛	to burn incense and worship Buddha
燒高香	to burn incense; to thank profusely
燒鳥	yakitori, a Japanese dish of skewered grilled chicken
燒鹼	caustic soda; sodium hydroxide NaOH
燔	burn; to roast meat for sacrifice
燕	Yan, a vassal state of Zhou in present-day Hebei and Liaoning
燕京	Yanjing, an old name for Beijing; capital of Yan at different periods
燕京啤酒	Yanjing beer (Beijing beer brand)
燕京大學	Yanjing or Yenching University, Christian university in Beijing founded in 1919
燕國	Yan, a vassal state of Zhou in modern Hebei and Liaoning; north Hebei
燕太子丹	Prince Dan of Yan (-226 BC), commissioned the attempted assassination of King Ying Zheng of Qin 秦嬴政[Qin2 Ying2 Zheng4] (later the First Emperor 秦始皇[Qin2 Shi3 huang2]) by Jing Ke 荊軻|荆轲[Jing1 Ke1] in 227 BC
燕子	swallow
燕子銜泥壘大窩	the swallow's nest is built one beakful of mud at a time (idiom)
燕尾服	swallow-tailed coat; tails
燕尾蝶	swallowtail butterfly (family Papilionidae)
燕山	Yan mountain range across north Hebei
燕梳	(dialect) insurance (loanword)
燕科	Hirundinidae (the family of swallows and martins)
燕窩	edible bird's nest
燕菜精	agar-agar powder
燕趙	Yan and Zhao, two of the Warring States in Hebei and Shanxi
燕趙都市報	Yanzhao Metropolis Daily
燕隼	(bird species of China) Eurasian hobby (Falco subbuteo)
燕雀	(bird species of China) brambling (Fringilla montifringilla)
燕雀安知鴻鵠之志	lit. can the sparrow and swallow know the will of the great swan? (idiom)
燕雀焉知鴻鵠之志	lit. can the sparrow and swallow know the will of the great swan? (idiom); fig. how can we small fry predict the ambitions of the great?
燕雀相賀	lit. sparrow and swallow's congratulation (idiom); fig. to congratulate sb on completion of a building project
燕雀處堂	lit. a caged bird in a pavilion (idiom); fig. to lose vigilance by comfortable living
燕麥	oats
燕麥片	rolled oats
燕麥粥	oatmeal; porridge
燖	warm up (food)
燙	to scald; to burn (by scalding); to blanch (cooking)
燙傷	to scald
燙平	to press (clothes); to iron out (wrinkles)
燙手山芋	hot potato; problem; trouble
燙斗	clothes iron
燙衣	to iron (clothes)
燙衣板	ironing board
燙金	(printing) to stamp with gold foil; to bronze
燙頭髮	perm; to perm hair
燙髮	perm (hairstyle)
燚	to blaze; (used in given names)
燜	to cook in a covered vessel; to casserole; to stew
燜燒鍋	thermal cooker; insulated retained-heat cooker
營	camp; barracks; battalion
營利	for profit; to seek profit
營口市	Yingkou, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
營地	camp
營壘	army camp
營妓	military prostitute
營寨	barracks
營山縣	Yingshan, a county in Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
營巢	to nest
營工	to sell one's labor
營帳	tent; camp
營建	to build; to construct
營房	barracks; living quarters
營收	sales; income; revenue
營救	to rescue
營業	to do business; to trade
營業員	clerk; shop assistant
營業收入	revenue
營業時間	business hours; opening hours; office hours
營業稅	tax on turnover; sales tax
營業額	sum or volume of business; turnover
營求	to seek; to strive for
營火	campfire
營生	(coll.) job; work
營盤	(old) military camp
營私	to gain from corrupt dealing; to engage in graft
營謀	to do business; to manage; to strive for
營辦	to handle; to undertake; to run (a business)
營造	to build (housing); to construct; to make
營造商	builder; contractor
營運	running; operation (of airport, bus service, business etc)
營運資金	(accounting) working capital
營運長	chief operating officer (COO) (Tw)
營銷	marketing
營銷號	(Internet slang) clickbait account; content farm account
營長	battalion commander
營養	nutrition; nourishment
營養不良	malnutrition; undernourishment; deficiency disease
營養品	nourishment; nutrient
營養學	nutriology
營養師	nutritionist; dietitian
營養液	nutrient fluid
營養物質	nutrient
營養素	nutrient
燠	warm
燡	blazing; radiant
燥	dry; parched; impatient; vexed
燥子	minced meat; Taiwan pr. [sao4 zi5]
燥熱	uncomfortably hot and dry; stiflingly hot; (of the body) flushed and feverishly warm; (fig.) agitated; restless; irritable; (TCM) dry-heat
燦	glorious; bright; brilliant
燦爛	to glitter; brilliant; splendid
燦爛多彩	multicolored splendor (of fireworks, bright lights etc)
燦笑	to smile brightly
燦若繁星	bright as a multitude of stars (idiom); extremely able talent
燧	(bound form) material or tool used to light a fire by means of friction or the sun's rays
燧人	Suiren, legendary inventor of fire
燧人氏	Suirenshi, legendary inventor of fire
燧發槍	flintlock
燧石	flint
燨	fire
燬	to destroy by fire
燭	candle; (literary) to illuminate
燭光	candlelight; candlelit (vigil etc)
燭光晚餐	candlelit dinner
燭架	candlestick holder; candlestand; candelabra
燭淚	drop of melted wax that runs down the side of a candle
燭火	candle flame
燭臺	candlestick; candle holder
燮	to blend; to adjust; to harmonize
燮理	to harmonize; to adapt; to adjust
燴	to braise; to cook (rice etc) with vegetables, meat and water
燴飯	rice in gravy, typically with meat and vegetables
燴麵	braised noodles; stewed noodles
燶	(dialect) to burn; to scorch
燹	conflagration
燻肉	bacon
燻蒸	(of sultry weather) to be stifling
燻蒸劑	fumigant
燼	(bound form) cinders; ashes
燽	salience; prominent; notable
燾	cover over; to envelope
燿	brilliant; glorious
爆	to explode; to burst; to stir-fry briefly; to quick-boil
爆乳	large breasts (slang)
爆仗	(coll.) firecracker
爆光	photographic exposure; public exposure
爆冷	an upset (esp. in sports); unexpected turn of events
爆冷門	an upset (esp. in sports); unexpected turn of events
爆出	to burst out; to appear unexpectedly; to break (media story)
爆吧	spam flooding
爆彈	bomb
爆改	to dramatically modify
爆料	to reveal inside or previously undisclosed information
爆棚	full to bursting
爆款	(retail) hot item
爆滿	filled to capacity (of theater, stadium, gymnasium etc)
爆火	to skyrocket in popularity; to go viral
爆炒	to stir-fry rapidly using a high flame; to conduct a media blitz
爆炸	explosion; to explode; to blow up
爆炸力	explosive force; strength of an explosion
爆炸性	explosive; fig. shocking
爆炸物	explosive (material)
爆炸頭	afro (hairstyle)
爆照	(Internet slang) to post a photo of oneself online
爆燃	to deflagrate
爆玉米花	to make popcorn; popcorn
爆痘	to break out with acne
爆發	to break out; to erupt; to explode; to burst out
爆發力	explosive power (in athletics, music, dance etc); dynamic intensity
爆發性	explosive power; explosive
爆破	to blow up; to demolish (using explosives); dynamite
爆破手	dynamiter
爆竹	firecracker
爆笑	to burst out laughing; hilarious; burst of laughter
爆管	cartridge igniter; squib
爆米花	puffed rice; popcorn
爆粗	to say offensive words; to swear
爆紅	to burst onto the scene; to shoot to fame; to become suddenly popular
爆聲	explosion; bang; sonic boom
爆肚	deep fried tripe
爆胎	(of a car, bike etc) to get a flat tire
爆艙	to run out of cargo space (on a ship or plane)
爆菊花	(slang) to stick sth up the anus; to have anal intercourse
爆表	off the charts; extreme; beyond the normal range of measurement
爆裂	to rupture; to burst; to explode
爆裂物	explosives
爆金幣	(gaming) (of a monster etc) to drop gold coins when defeated
爆雷	(of a P2P lending platform) to collapse
爆震	knocking (fault in internal combustion engine)
爆音	sonic boom
爆頭	(neologism) (slang) (often used in video gaming) to shoot sb in the head
爆鳴	sound of an explosion
爇	heat; to burn
爌	bright and spacious
爌肉	slow-braised pork belly (Tw)
爍	bright; luminous
爍爍	flickering; glittering
爐	stove; furnace
爐子	stove; oven; furnace
爐床	hearth
爐架	stove stand; grate (supporting a pot over the stove)
爐渣	furnace slag; ashes from a stove
爐火	the fire of a stove
爐火純青	(lit.) the stove fire has turned bright green (allusion to Daoist alchemy) (idiom)
爐灶	stove
爐膛	furnace chamber; stove chamber
爐臺	stove top; hob
爐邊	fireside
爐霍縣	Luhuo, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
爐頂	furnace top
爓	flame
爔	(archaic) fire
爚	bright; fiery
爛	soft; mushy; well-cooked and soft; to rot; to decompose
爛人	(coll.) scumbag; lowlife; asshole
爛俗	clichéd
爛大街	(coll.) (of a fashion item, song etc) to be everywhere now; to be nothing special anymore; to have lost its novelty
爛好人	sb who tries to be on good terms with everyone
爛尾	(of a construction project etc) unfinished; derailed (due to critical setbacks)
爛尾樓	uncompleted building; building whose construction has run into difficulties and stopped
爛崽	(dialect) hooligan; low-life
爛攤子	terrible mess; shambles
爛桃花	unhappy love affair
爛梗	lame joke
爛橘子	(slang) EA's Origin platform
爛污貨	loose woman; slut
爛泥	mud; mire
爛泥扶不上牆	useless (idiom); worthless; inept
爛漫	unaffected; unpretentious; (literary) brightly colored; vibrant
爛熟	(of fruit) fully ripe; overripe; (of food) cooked until very soft
爛片	dud movie
爛糊	(of food) very soft and mushy from prolonged cooking
爛舌頭	to gossip; to blab; a blab-mouth
爛賬	disorganized accounts; uncollectable debts; bad debt
爛透	rotten to the core
爛醉	dead drunk; completely drunk
爛醉如泥	(idiom) to be dead drunk; to be plastered
爝	torch
爟	light a fire
爨	cooking-stove; to cook
爪	foot of a bird or animal; paw; claws
爪兒	paws (of small animal); foot of a utensil; stupid person
爪印	paw print
爪哇	Java (island of Indonesia)
爪哇八哥	(bird species of China) Javan myna (Acridotheres javanicus)
爪哇國	ancient state located in present-day Java 爪哇[Zhao3 wa1]
爪哇島	Java (island of Indonesia)
爪哇池鷺	(bird species of China) Javan pond heron (Ardeola speciosa)
爪哇禾雀	(bird species of China) Java sparrow (Lonchura oryzivora)
爪子	(animal's) claw
爪字頭	Chinese character component 爫, used in 受, 妥, 乳 etc
爪尖兒	pig's trotters
爪機	(Internet slang) mobile phone
爪牙	pawn; lackey; accomplice (in crime)
爪蟾	Xenopus (type of frog)
爫	"claw" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 87)
爬	to crawl; to climb; to get up or sit up
爬上	to climb up
爬升	to rise; to ascend; to climb (airplane etc)
爬坡	to climb a slope; to go uphill
爬山	to go for a hike (esp. in the hills or mountains)
爬山涉水	to climb mountains and wade rivers (idiom); fig. to make a long and difficult journey
爬山虎	Boston ivy or Japanese creeper (Parthenocissus tricuspidata)
爬格子	(oral) to write (esp. for a living)
爬梳	to comb through (historical documents etc); to unravel
爬泳	(swimming) the crawl (front crawl stroke)
爬牆	to climb a wall; (fig.) to be unfaithful
爬犁	sledge
爬竿	pole-climbing (as gymnastics or circus act); climbing pole
爬蝦	mantis shrimp
爬蟲	reptile; (Internet) web crawler
爬蟲動物	reptile
爬蟲類	reptiles; also written 爬行類|爬行类
爬行	to crawl; to creep
爬行動物	reptile
爬行類	reptiles; also written 爬行動物|爬行动物
爭	to strive for; to vie for; to argue or debate
爭上游	to strive to be among the best; zheng shangyou (card game)
爭先	to compete to be first; to contest first place
爭先恐後	(idiom) to compete to be first; to scramble to get ahead; to rush forward for fear of falling behind
爭光	to win an honor; to strive to win a prize
爭分奪秒	lit. fight minutes, snatch seconds (idiom); a race against time
爭取	to fight for; to strive for; to win over
爭取時效	to strive to get sth done while the timing is right
爭取時間	to act with urgency; to buy time
爭名奪利	to fight for fame, grab profit (idiom); scrambling for fame and wealth
爭吵	to quarrel; dispute
爭嘴	to quarrel; to argue; to fight over food
爭執	to dispute; to disagree; to argue opinionatedly
爭執不下	to quarrel endlessly
爭奪	to fight over; to contest; to vie over
爭奪戰	struggle
爭妍鬥艷	contending for supreme beauty (esp. of flowers, scenery, painting etc)
爭寵	to strive for favor
爭強好勝	competitive; ambitious and aggressive; to desire to beat others
爭得	to obtain by an effort; to strive to get sth
爭戰	fight
爭持	to refuse to concede; not to give in
爭搶	to fight over; to scramble for
爭斤論兩	to haggle over every ounce (idiom); to to fuss over minor points
爭權奪利	scramble for power and profit (idiom); power struggle
爭氣	to work hard for sth; to resolve on improvement
爭球線	scrimmage line (American football)
爭相	to fall over each other in their eagerness to ...
爭端	dispute; controversy; conflict
爭臣	minister not afraid to give forthright criticism
爭衡	to struggle for mastery; to strive for supremacy
爭訟	dispute involving litigation; legal dispute
爭論	to argue; to debate; to contend
爭論點	contention
爭議	controversy; dispute; to dispute
爭議性	controversial
爭購	to compete; to fight for; to rush to purchase
爭辯	a dispute; to wrangle
爭鋒	to strive
爭長論短	lit. to argue who is right and wrong (idiom)
爭雄	to contend for supremacy
爭霸	to contend for hegemony; a power struggle
爭面子	to do (sb) proud; to be a credit to (one's school etc)
爭風吃醋	to rival sb for the affection of a man or woman
爭鬥	to struggle; to fight; struggle
爭鳴	to contend
爰	therefore; consequently; thus
爵	ancient bronze wine holder with 3 legs and loop handle; nobility
爵位	order of feudal nobility, namely: Duke 公[gong1], Marquis 侯[hou2], Count 伯[bo2], Viscount 子[zi3], Baron 男[nan2]
爵士	knight; Sir; (loanword) jazz
爵士樂	jazz (loanword)
爵士舞	jazz (loanword)
爵士音樂	jazz (loanword)
爵士鼓	drum kit (Tw)
爵祿	rank and emolument of nobility
父	(bound form) father
父上	(slang) father; dad (playful honorific, orthographic borrowing from Japanese "chichi-ue")
父兄	father and elder brother(s); head of the family; patriarch
父喪	the death of one's father
父執	(literary) father's friends (of the same generation)
父執輩	person of one's father's generation
父女	father and daughter
父子	father and son
父愛	paternal love
父慈子孝	benevolent father, filial son (idiom)
父本	(genetics) male parent
父權制	patriarchy
父母	father and mother; parents
父母之命，媒妁之言	(idiom) parents' orders and matchmaker's services (in establishing an arranged marriage)
父母親	parents
父母雙亡	to have lost both one's parents
父皇	(historical) term used by an emperor's son or daughter to address him
父目錄	(computing) parent directory
父系	paternal line; patrilineal
父級	(computing) (attributive) parent (in a hierarchy)
父老	elders
父親	father; also pr. [fu4 qin5]
父親節	Father's Day
父輩	people of one's parents' generation
爸	father; dad; pa
爸媽	dad and mom
爸比	(loanword) daddy
爸爸	(coll.) father; dad
爹	dad
爹地	daddy (loanword)
爹娘	(dialect) parents
爹爹	daddy; granddad
爺	grandpa; old gentleman
爺倆	(coll.) father and his child
爺們	menfolk (collective term for men of different generations)
爺爺	(coll.) paternal grandfather; grandpa
爻	the solid and broken lines of the eight trigrams 八卦[ba1 gua4], e.g. ☶
爽	bright; clear; crisp
爽亮	clear; open; bright
爽健	to feel well; healthy and carefree
爽利	efficient; brisk; neat
爽口	fresh and tasty
爽心悅目	beautiful and heartwarming
爽心美食	comfort food
爽快	refreshed; rejuvenated; frank and straightforward
爽意	pleasant
爽捷	readily; in short order
爽暢	pleasant
爽朗	clear and bright (of weather); straightforward; candid
爽歪了	(slang) awesome; amazing; too cool!; sick
爽歪歪	to feel great; blissful; to be in bliss
爽氣	cool fresh air; straightforward
爽然	open and happy; carefree; at a loss
爽然若失	at a loss; confused; not know what to do next
爽爽快快	in short order; straightforward
爽當	with alacrity; frank and spontaneous
爽目	pleasant to behold; attractive
爽直	straightforward
爽約	to miss an appointment; to break an appointment
爽脆	sharp and clear; frank; straightfoward
爽膚水	toner (cosmetics)
爽身粉	baby powder; talcum powder
爾	thus; so; like that
爾來	(literary) recently; lately; hitherto
爾後	henceforth; thereafter; subsequently
爾德	Eid (Islam)
爾格	erg (physics) (loanword)
爾等	(literary) you (plural)
爾虞我詐	lit. you hoodwink me and I cheat you (idiom)
爾雅	"Erya" or "The Ready Guide", first extant Chinese dictionary, c. 3rd century BC, with glossaries on classical texts
爿	"piece of wood" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 90), mirror image of 片[pian4]
牁	(used in place names); Taiwan pr. [ge1]
牂	female sheep; place name
牄	to walk rapidly
牆	wall (CL:面[mian4],堵[du3])
牆倒眾人推	lit. when a wall is about to collapse, everybody gives it a shove (idiom)
牆垣	wall; fence
牆報	wall newspaper
牆壁	wall
牆旮旯	recess between walls
牆板鋸	drywall saw; plasterboard saw
牆根	foot of a wall
牆紙	wallpaper
牆裙	dado; wainscot
牆角	corner (junction of two walls)
牆面	the surface of a wall (esp. an interior wall)
牆頭草	sb who goes whichever way the wind blows; sb with no mind of their own
片	thin piece; flake; a slice
片中	in the movie
片假名	katakana (Japanese script)
片兒	sheet; thin film
片兒警	local or neighborhood policeman
片刻	short period of time; a moment
片劑	(pharmacology) tablet
片名	movie title
片商	movie production company; film distributor
片場	filming location; film set
片子	thin flake; small piece
片尾	closing segment of a film or TV show etc; end credits
片尾曲	ending theme song
片岩	(geology) schist
片斷	section; fragment; segment
片時	a short time; a moment
片段	fragment (of speech etc); extract (from book etc)
片約	film contract; movie contract
片花	trailer (for a movie)
片語	phrase
片警	community police officer; police officer responsible for a particular neighborhood or community
片酬	remuneration for playing a role in a movie or television drama
片長	length (duration) of a film
片面	unilateral; one-sided
片頭	leader (blank section at the beginning or end of a reel of film)
片頭曲	opening theme song
片麻岩	gneiss
版	a register; block of printing; edition
版主	forum moderator; webmaster
版刻	carving; engraving
版圖	domain; territory
版塊	printing block; section (of a newspaper)
版式	format
版本	version; edition; release
版權	copyright
版權所有	all rights reserved (copyright statement)
版次	edition (of a book etc); edition number
版畫	printmaking; a print
版稅	royalty (on books)
版築	to construct a rammed-earth wall
版面	page of a publication (e.g. newspaper or website)
版面費	publishing fee; page charge
牌	signboard; plaque; plate; tablet (CL:塊|块[kuai4]); brand; trademark
牌九	pai gow (gambling game played with dominoes)
牌位	memorial tablet
牌價	list price
牌匾	board (attached to a wall)
牌坊	memorial arch
牌型	hand (in mahjong or card games)
牌子	sign; trademark; brand
牌局	gambling get-together; game of cards, mahjong etc
牌戲	a card game
牌桌	mahjong table; card table; gambling table; gaming table
牌樓	decorated archway
牌照	(business) license; vehicle license; car registration
牌組	set of cards (e.g. hand, suit, deck or meld etc)
牌號	trademark
牏	short board; plank
牐	sluice; lock (on waterway)
牒	(official) document; dispatch
牒譜	genealogy; family tree; same as 譜牒|谱牒
牖	to enlighten; lattice window
牘	documents
牙	tooth; ivory
牙人	(old) middleman; broker
牙儈	broker
牙克石市	Yakeshi, a county-level city in Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
牙冠	crown of a tooth; (dental) crown
牙刷	toothbrush
牙印	teeth marks (left on sth); bite marks
牙口	condition of one's teeth; ability to chew
牙周炎	periodontitis (gum disorder)
牙周病	periodontitis (gum disorder)
牙垢	dental plaque; tartar
牙城	citadel; military headquarters
牙套	orthodontic brace; (dental) crown
牙子	serrated edge; (old) middleman; broker
牙巴	(dialect) tooth
牙帳	tent of the commanding officer; tent capital of a nomadic people
牙床	gum; ivory bedframe
牙慧	repetition; other person's opinion; hearsay
牙托	mouthguard; occlusal splint; dental impression tray
牙斑	dental plaque
牙旗	emperor's or general's banner erected on an ivory-tipped pole at a military camp or headquarters (in ancient times)
牙本質	dentin; dentine
牙根	root of tooth
牙橋	dental bridge
牙病	odontopathy; dental disease
牙痛	toothache
牙白	creamy white; ivory color
牙盤	(bicycle) crankset
牙石	dental calculus; tartar
牙磣	gritty (of foodstuffs); fig. jarring speech
牙祭	a good meal; sumptuous food
牙科	dentistry
牙科醫生	dentist
牙箍	orthodontic braces
牙籤	toothpick
牙粉	tooth powder
牙結石	dental calculus; tartar
牙線	dental floss
牙線棒	floss pick
牙縫	gap between teeth
牙縫兒	gap between teeth
牙膏	toothpaste
牙菌斑	dental bacterial plaque
牙行	middleman (in former times); broker
牙買加	Jamaica
牙買加胡椒	Jamaican pepper; allspice (Pimenta dioica)
牙醫	dentist
牙釉質	tooth enamel
牙關	jaw; mandibular joint
牙關緊閉症	lockjaw; trismus
牙雕	ivory carving
牙音	velar consonants of Middle Chinese
牙髓	tooth pulp
牙齒	tooth; dental
牙齒矯正器	orthodontic braces
牙齦	gums; gingiva
牙齦炎	gingivitis
牛	ox; cow; bull
牛不喝水強按頭	lit. to try to make an ox drink by forcing its head down to the water (idiom)
牛不喝水難按角	(idiom) you can lead a horse to water but you cannot make it drink
牛乳	cow's milk
牛人	(coll.) leading light; true expert; badass
牛仔	cowboy
牛仔布	denim
牛仔褲	jeans
牛奶	cow's milk
牛奶巧克力	milk chocolate
牛奶糖	toffee; chewy caramel candy
牛子	(dialect) penis
牛屄	(slang) (vulgar) awesome; badass; (slang) (vulgar) cocky; arrogant
牛山濯濯	treeless hills (idiom)
牛市	bull market
牛年	Year of the Ox or Bull (e.g. 2009)
牛心	mulishness; obstinacy
牛性	mulishness; obstinacy
牛扒	(dialect) beef steak
牛排	steak
牛排餐廳	steakhouse; chophouse
牛排館	steakhouse
牛柳	(beef) tenderloin
牛棚	cowshed
牛樟	Cinnamomum kanehirae; small-leaf camphor
牛橋	Oxbridge; Cambridge and Oxford
牛欄	cattle pen
牛毛	ox hair (used as a metaphor for sth very numerous or sth fine and delicate)
牛氣	(coll.) haughty; overbearing; (economics) bullish
牛油	butter; beef tallow
牛油戟	pound cake
牛油果	avocado (Persea americana); shea nut (Vitellaria paradoxa)
牛津	Oxford (city in England)
牛津大學	University of Oxford
牛津郡	Oxfordshire (English county)
牛海綿狀腦病	bovine spongiform encephalopathy, BSE; mad cow disease
牛溲馬勃	cow's piss, horse's ulcer (idiom); worthless nonsense; insignificant
牛犢	calf
牛痘	cowpox
牛痘病	cow pox
牛百葉	omasum; beef tripe
牛皮	cowhide; leather; fig. flexible and tough
牛皮癬	psoriasis
牛皮紙	kraft paper
牛皮色	buff (color)
牛皮菜	chard (Beta vulgaris)
牛磺酸	taurine
牛筋草	wire grass (Eleusine indica)
牛米	newton meter (Nm)
牛羊	cattle and sheep; livestock
牛肉	beef
牛肉丸	beef meatballs
牛肉乾	dried beef; beef jerky
牛肉麵	beef noodle soup
牛肚	beef tripe
牛肝菌	porcino (Boletus edulis)
牛背鷺	(bird species of China) eastern cattle egret (Bubulcus coromandus)
牛脊肉	sirloin (beef joint)
牛脖子	(coll.) bullheaded; obstinate
牛脷酥	ox tongue pastry, oval Guangdong pastry made of fried dough, resembling an ox tongue
牛脾氣	bullheadedness; stubborn
牛腩	brisket (esp. Cantonese); belly beef
牛膝	Achyranthes bidentata (root used in Chinese medicine)
牛膝草	hyssop (Hyssopus officinalis)
牛至	oregano (Origanum vulgare); marjoram
牛舌	ox tongue
牛蒡	burdock (Arctium lappa)
牛虻	gadfly (Tabanus bovinus)
牛蛙	bullfrog
牛衣對泣	couple living in destitute misery (idiom)
牛角	cow horn
牛角包	croissant
牛角掛書	lit. to hang one's books on cow horns (idiom)
牛角椒	Cayenne pepper; red pepper; chili
牛角麵包	croissant
牛軋糖	(loanword) nougat
牛軛	yoke
牛軛礁	Niu'e Reef, disputed territory in the South China Sea, claimed by China, Vietnam and the Philippines, aka Whitsun Reef or Julian Felipe Reef
牛郎	Cowherd of the folk tale Cowherd and Weaving maid 牛郎織女|牛郎织女
牛郎織女	Cowherd and Weaving maid (characters in folk story); separated lovers
牛隻	cow; cattle
牛鞅	wooden yoke for a draft ox
牛鞭	pizzle; bull's penis (served as food)
牛頓	newton (SI unit of force)
牛頓力學	Newtonian mechanics
牛頓米	newton meter, unit of torque (symbol: N⋅m)
牛頭	Ox-Head, one of the two guardians of the underworld in Chinese mythology
牛頭㹴	bull terrier
牛頭伯勞	(bird species of China) bull-headed shrike (Lanius bucephalus)
牛頭犬	bulldog
牛飲	gulp
牛馬	oxen and horses; beasts of burden; (fig.) drudge; laborer
牛驥同槽	cow and famous steed at the same trough (idiom); fig. the common and the great are treated alike
牛驥同皂	cow and famous steed at the same trough (idiom); fig. the common and the great are treated alike
牛鬼蛇神	evil monsters; (fig.) bad characters; (political) bad elements
牛魔王	Gyuumao
牛黃	bezoar
牛鼻子	key point; crux; (old) Daoist (facetious)
牝	(of a bird, animal or plant) female; keyhole; valley
牝牡	male and female
牝牡驪黃	a black stallion or possibly a yellow mare (idiom); don't judge by outward appearance
牝雞司晨	female chicken crows at daybreak (idiom); a woman usurps authority
牟	used in 牟平[Mu4 ping2] (the name of a place in Shandong)
牟利	to gain profit (by underhand means); to exploit; exploitation
牟取	to gain profit (by underhand means); to exploit
牟取暴利	to reap huge profits (esp. by unscrupulous means)
牟定縣	Mouding, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
牟平區	Muping, a district of Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
牠	it (pronoun for an animal)
牡	(of a bird, animal or plant) male; key; hills
牡丹	tree peony (Paeonia suffruticosa)
牡丹亭	The Peony Pavilion (1598), play by Tang Xianzu 湯顯祖|汤显祖[Tang1 Xian3 zu3]
牡丹區	Mudan, a district of Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
牡丹卡	Peony Card (credit card issued by Industrial and Commercial Bank of China)
牡丹江市	Mudanjiang, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
牡丹皮	root bark of the peony tree (used in TCM)
牡丹雖好，全仗綠葉扶持	Although the peony is beautiful, it depends entirely on help from the green leaves (idiom). However brilliant you may be, you can't do anything without support from others.
牡丹雖好，全憑綠葉扶持	Although the peony is beautiful, it depends entirely on help from the green leaves (idiom). However brilliant you may be, you can't do anything without support from others.
牡丹雖好，終須綠葉扶持	Although the peony is beautiful, it depends entirely on help from the green leaves (idiom). However brilliant you may be, you can't do anything without support from others.
牡牛	bull
牡羊座	Aries (constellation and sign of the zodiac); used erroneously for 白羊座
牡蠣	oyster
牡鹿	stag; buck
牢	(literary) pen; fold (for livestock); prison; jail; firm; secure; fast
牢不可破	(idiom) (usu. of sth abstract: an alliance, a conviction etc) unbreakable; rock-solid
牢友	inmate; cellmate
牢固	firm; secure
牢子	jailer (old)
牢實	solid; strong; firm
牢房	jail cell; prison cell
牢牢	firmly; safely
牢獄	prison
牢獄之災	imprisonment
牢籠	cage; trap (e.g. basket, pit or snare for catching animals)
牢記	to keep in mind; to remember
牢靠	firm and solid; robust; reliable
牢頭	jailer (old)
牢騷	discontent; complaint; to complain
牣	fill up; to stuff
牤	bull
牤牛	bull
牧	to herd; to breed livestock; to govern (old)
牧人	shepherd; pastor; pastoral
牧區	grazing land; pasture
牧圉	horse breeder; pasture for cattle and horses
牧地	pasture; grazing land
牧場	pasture; grazing land; ranch
牧夫座	Boötes (constellation)
牧師	chaplain; churchman; clergyman
牧業	livestock husbandry; animal product industry
牧歌	shepherd's song; pastoral
牧民	herdsman
牧牛犬	cattle dog
牧犬	shepherd dog
牧畜	raising livestock; animal husbandry
牧神	pastoral deity; shepherd god (esp. Pan in Greek mythology)
牧神節	Lupercalia, Roman festival to Pan on 15th February
牧童	shepherd boy
牧羊	to raise sheep; shepherd
牧羊人	shepherd
牧羊犬	sheepdog
牧羊者	shepherd
牧群	herd of sheep
牧草	pasture grass; fodder
牧野區	Muye, a district of Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
牧養	to raise (animals)
牧馬人	herdsman (of horses); wrangler
物	(bound form) thing
物主	owner
物主代詞	possessive pronoun
物主限定詞	possessive (in grammar)
物事	(literary) affair; matter; business; (dialect) item; thing; stuff
物以稀為貴	the rarer sth is, the greater its value (idiom)
物以類聚	similar things come together (idiom); like draws like
物以類聚，人以群分	Similar things group together, similar people fit together (idiom); Birds of a feather flock together.
物件	object
物候	natural phenomena of a seasonal nature
物候學	phenology
物價	(commodity) prices
物價指數	price index
物力	physical resources (as opposed to labor resources)
物化	to objectify; (literary) to die
物各有主	everything has a rightful owner (idiom)
物品	articles; goods
物態	(physics) state of matter
物慾世界	the world of material desires (Buddhism)
物料	material
物是人非	(idiom) the place is unchanged, but the faces are different
物業	property; real estate
物業稅	property tax
物業管理	property management
物業費	property management fee
物極必反	when things reach an extreme, they can only move in the opposite direction (idiom)
物權	(law) right in rem; real right
物欲	material desire; craving for material things
物歸原主	(idiom) to return sth to its rightful owner
物流	distribution (business); logistics
物流管理	logistics
物物交換	barter
物理	physics; physical; relating to the material world
物理化學	physical chemistry
物理學	physics
物理學家	physicist
物理層	physical layer
物理性質	physical property
物理治療	physiotherapy; physical therapy
物理療法	physiotherapy; physical therapy
物理結構	physical composition
物理量	physical quantity
物產	products; produce; natural resources
物盡其用	to use sth to the full; to make the best use of everything
物種	species
物種起源	Charles Darwin's "On the Origin of Species"
物競天擇	natural selection
物管	property management (abbr. for 物業管理|物业管理[wu4 ye4 guan3 li3])
物美價廉	good quality and cheap; a bargain
物聯網	Internet of things (IoT)
物色	to look for; to seek out; to choose
物語	monogatari; epic narrative (Japanese literary form)
物證	material evidence
物資	goods; supplies
物質	matter; substance; material
物質享受	material benefits
物質文明	material culture
物質文明和精神文明	material and spiritual culture; matter and mind
物質的量	(chemistry) amount of substance
物超所值	(of a product, service etc) worth more than the cost; great value for the money spent
物鏡	objective (optics)
物體	object; body; substance
牮	to prop up
牯	bullock; cow
牲	domestic animal; sacrificial animal
牲口	animals used for their physical strength (mules, oxen etc)
牲畜	farm animal; livestock
牲禮	(religion) to sacrifice; sacrifice; animal offered as sacrifice
牲體	body of an animal (or human) killed sacrificially
牳	(bovine)
牴	to butt; resist
牷	one-color bullock
牸	female of domestic animals
牸牛	cow
牸馬	mare
特	special; unique; distinguished
特任	special appointment
特使	special envoy; special ambassador
特來	to come with a specific purpose in mind
特例	special case; isolated example
特倫頓	Trenton, capital of New Jersey
特偵組	special investigation team (Tw)
特價	special price
特克斯	(textiles) (loanword) tex, a unit for the linear mass density of a fiber
特克斯和凱科斯群島	Turks and Caicos Islands
特克斯河	Tekes River in southeast Kazakhstan and northwest China, a tributary of the Ili River 伊犁河[Yi1 li2 He2]
特克斯縣	Tekes, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
特免	special exemption
特內里費	Tenerife
特准	to give special approval
特出	outstanding; prominent
特刊	special edition (of magazine)
特別	unusual; special; very; especially; particularly
特別任務連	Special Duties Unit, Hong Kong special police
特別客串	special guest performer (in a show)
特別待遇	special treatment
特別感謝	special thanks; particular thanks
特別提款權	special drawing rights (SDR), international currency of the IMF
特別行政區	special administrative region (SAR), of which there are two in the PRC: Hong Kong 香港 and Macau 澳門|澳门
特別護理	intensive care
特利	(name) Terry
特務	special assignment (military); special agent; operative
特勤	special duty (e.g. extra security or traffic control on special occasions)
特化	specialization
特區	special administrative region; abbr. for 特別行政區|特别行政区
特古西加爾巴	Tegucigalpa, capital of Honduras
特地	specially; for a special purpose
特大	exceptionally big
特大號	(of clothes, containers etc) extra-large
特奧會	Special Olympics
特定	special; specific; designated; particular
特富龍	(PRC) Teflon (trademark)
特寫	feature article; close-up (filmmaking, photography etc)
特工	secret service; special service; secret service agent
特徵	characteristic; diagnostic property; distinctive feature
特徵值	(math.) eigenvalue
特徵向量	(math.) eigenvector
特徵聯合	characteristic binding
特快	express (train, delivery etc)
特快專遞	express mail
特快車	special express
特急	especially urgent; top priority
特性	property; characteristic
特惠	abbr. for 特別優惠|特别优惠[te4 bie2 you1 hui4]; ex gratia
特惠金	ex gratia payment
特意	specially; intentionally
特批	to give special approval
特技	special effect; stunt
特技演員	stuntman
特技跳傘	skydiving
特拉法加廣場	Trafalgar Square (London)
特拉法爾加	Trafalgar
特拉法爾加廣場	Trafalgar Square (London)
特拉維夫	Tel Aviv; Tel Aviv-Jaffa
特拉華	Delaware, US state
特拉華河	Delaware River, between Pennsylvania and Delaware state, USA
特指	to refer in particular to
特指問句	(linguistics) wh-question
特提斯海	Tethys (pre-Cambrian ocean)
特效	marked effect; strong effect
特效藥	effective medicine for a specific condition; highly effective medicine
特敏福	(HK) Tamiflu
特斯拉	Nikola Tesla (1856–1943), Serbian inventor and engineer
特易購	Tesco, British-based supermarket chain
特有	specific (to); characteristic (of); distinctive
特朗普	Donald Trump (1946–), American businessman and politician, US president 2017–2021 and 2025–
特權	prerogative; privilege; privileged
特此	hereby
特殊	special; particular; unusual
特殊兒童	child with special needs; gifted child
特殊函數	special functions (math.)
特殊教育	special education; special-needs education
特殊護理	special care; intensive nursing
特殊關係	special relation
特氟龍	Teflon; polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE)
特洛伊	ancient city of Troy
特洛伊木馬	Trojan horse
特派	special appointment; special correspondent; task force
特派員	special correspondent; sb dispatched on a mission
特為	for a specific purpose; specially
特瓦族	Twa or Batwa, an ethnic group in Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo
特產	special local product; (regional) specialty
特異	exceptionally good; excellent; clearly outstanding
特異功能	supernatural power; extrasensory perception
特異性	specific; specificity; idiosyncrasy
特異選擇	special choice; special reserve
特發性	idiopathic
特種	particular kind; special type
特種兵	commando; special forces soldier
特種空勤團	Special Air Service (SAS)
特種警察	SWAT (Special Weapons And Tactics); riot police
特種部隊	(military) special forces
特立尼達	Trinidad
特立尼達和多巴哥	Trinidad and Tobago
特立獨行	to be unconventional; independence of action
特等	special grade; top quality
特約	specially engaged; employed or commissioned for a special task
特約記者	special correspondent; stringer
特級	special grade; top quality
特羅多斯	Troodos, Cyprus
特色	a characteristic; a distinctive feature or quality
特藝彩色	Technicolor
特衛強	Tyvek (brand)
特製	specially made; custom-made
特解	particular solution (to a math. equation)
特設	ad hoc; to set up specially
特許	license; licensed; concession
特許權	patent; franchise; concession
特許狀	charter
特許經營	franchised operation; franchising
特調	special blend; house blend
特警	SWAT (Special Weapons And Tactics); riot police
特護	special nursing; intensive care; abbr. for 特殊護理|特殊护理[te4 shu1 hu4 li3]
特護區	intensive care department (of hospital)
特賣	to have a sale; sale
特賣會	promotional event; sale
特質	characteristic; special quality
特赦	to grant a special pardon
特赦令	decree to grant a special pardon
特起	to appear on the scene; to arise suddenly
特輯	special collection; special issue; album
特邀	special invitation
特里普拉	Tripura (Indian state)
特里爾	Trier (city in Germany)
特里薩	Teresa; Theresa (name)
特長	personal strength; one's special ability or strong points
特雷沃	Trevor (name)
特雷莎	Teresa; Theresa (name)
特需	special need; particular requirement
特首	chief executive of Special Administrative Region (Hong Kong or Macao)
特魯埃爾	Tergüel or Teruel, Spain
特魯多	Pierre Trudeau (1919-2000), prime minister of Canada 1980-1984 and 1968-1979
特麼	euphemistic equivalent of 他媽的|他妈的[ta1 ma1 de5]
特點	characteristic; trait; feature
牻	(literary) black and white cattle
牻牛兒苗科	Geraniaceae (the geranium family)
牼	shank bone of ox
牽	to lead along; to pull (an animal on a tether)
牽一髮而動全身	lit. pulling a single hair makes the whole body move (idiom)
牽制	to control; to curb; to restrict
牽動	to affect; to produce a change in sth
牽就	to concede; to give up
牽引	to pull; to draw (a cart); to tow
牽引力	motive force; traction
牽引車	tractor unit; tractor truck; prime mover
牽強	far-fetched; implausible (chain of reasoning)
牽強附會	to make an irrelevant comparison or interpretation (idiom)
牽心	to worry; concerned
牽心掛腸	to worry deeply about sth; extremely concerned
牽手	to hold hands
牽扯	to involve; to implicate; to be interrelated
牽扯不清	unclear; ambiguous; having an unclear relationship with
牽扶	to lead
牽掛	to worry about; to be concerned about
牽掣	to impede; to hold up
牽涉	to involve; implicated
牽涉到	to involve; to drag in
牽牛	morning glory (Pharbitis nil)
牽牛屬	Pharbitis, genus of herbaceous plants including Morning glory 牽牛|牵牛 (Pharbitis nil)
牽牛星	Altair (star)
牽牛花	white-edged morning glory
牽紅線	to play matchmaker
牽累	to weigh down; to trouble; to implicate (sb)
牽絆	to bind; to yoke; to impede
牽線	to pull strings; to manipulate (a puppet)
牽線人	sb who pulls strings to get things done; wirepuller; go-between
牽繩	tow rope
牽纏	to involve; to entangle sb
牽羊擔酒	pulling a lamb and bringing wine on a carrying pole (idiom); fig. to offer elaborate congratulations
牽腸掛肚	deeply worried (idiom); to feel anxious
牽著鼻子走	to lead by the nose
牽記	to feel anxious about sth; unable to stop thinking about sth; to miss
牽連	to implicate; implicated; to link together
牽頭	to lead (an animal by the head); to take the lead
牾	to oppose; to gore
牿	shed or pen for cattle
犀	rhinoceros; sharp
犀利	sharp; incisive; penetrating
犀牛	rhinoceros
犀鳥	hornbill
犁	plow
犁地	to plow
犁溝	furrow
犁鏵	plowshare
犁靬	Han dynasty name for countries in far West
犁頭	plowshare; colter; (dialect) plow
犁骨	vomer bone (in the nose, dividing the nostrils)
犄	ox-horns; wing of an army
犄角	horn
犄角旮旯	corner; nook
犆	male animal
犇	surname Ben
犉	ox
犋	unit of animal power (sufficient to pull a plow, harrow etc)
犍	used in 犍為|犍为[Qian2 wei2] (the name of a place in Sichuan)
犍為縣	Qianwei, a county in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
犍牛	bullock
犍陀羅	Gandhara Kingdom in northwest India, c. 600 BC-11 AD, on Kabul River in Vale of Peshawar
犎	zebu; indicus cattle; humped ox
犎牛	bison
犏	used in 犏牛[pian1 niu2]
犏牛	offspring of a bull and a female yak
犒	to reward or comfort with presents of food, drink etc
犒勞	to reward with food and drink; to feast (sb)
犒賞	reward; to reward
犖	brindled ox; clear; eminent
犗	castrated bull; bullock
犛	black ox; yak
犟勁	obstinacy; tenacity
犢	calf; sacrificial victim
犢子	calf
犧	sacrifice
犧牲	to sacrifice one's life; to sacrifice (sth valued)
犧牲品	sacrificial victim; sb who is expendable; item sold at a loss
犧牲打	sacrifice hit (in sport, e.g. baseball)
犧牲者	sb who sacrifices himself; sacrificial victim; sb who is expendable
犨	panting of cow; grunting of ox
犩	ancient yak of southeast China, also known as 犪牛[kui2 niu2]
犪	used in 犪牛[kui2 niu2]
犪牛	ancient yak of southeast China, also known as 犩[wei2]
犬	(literary) dog; Kangxi radical 94
犬傷	dog bite; injury sustained in a dog attack
犬儒	cynic
犬儒主義	cynicism
犬夜叉	Inuyasha, fictional character
犬子	(literary) (humble) my son
犬展	dog show
犬戎	Quanrong, Zhou Dynasty ethnic group of present-day western China
犬牙	canine tooth
犬瘟熱	canine distemper (mammalian disease caused by Canine morbillivirus)
犬科	the canines
犬種	dog breed
犬舍	kennel
犬隻	(formal) dog (used in official documents, news reports etc)
犬馬之勞	lit. the service of a dog or a horse (idiom); fig. faithful service
犬齒	canine tooth
犭	three-stroke form of Kangxi radical 94 犬[quan3]
犯	to violate; to offend; to assault
犯上	to offend one's superiors
犯上作亂	to rebel against the emperor (idiom)
犯不著	not worthwhile
犯事	to break the law; to commit a crime
犯人	convict; prisoner; criminal
犯傻	to do something stupid; to pretend not to know; to stare blankly
犯勁	to become excited
犯嘀咕	to hesitate; to have second thoughts; to be concerned
犯得上	worthwhile (often in rhetorical questions, implying not worthwhile)
犯得著	worthwhile (often in rhetorical questions, implying not worthwhile)
犯忌	to violate a taboo
犯怵	to be afraid; to feel nervous
犯愁	to worry; to be anxious
犯意	criminal intent
犯戒	to go against the rules (of a religious order)
犯案	to commit a crime or offense
犯法	to break the law
犯渾	confused; mixed up; muddled up; befuddled
犯病	to fall ill
犯睏	(coll.) to get sleepy
犯禁	to violate a ban
犯罪	to commit a crime; crime; offense
犯罪分子	criminal; offender
犯罪團伙	a criminal gang
犯罪學	criminology
犯罪現場	scene of the crime
犯罪者	criminal; perpetrator
犯罪行為	criminal activity
犯罪記錄	criminal record
犯罪集團	crime syndicate
犯蠢	to do sth stupid
犯規	to break the rules; an illegality; a foul
犯諱	to use the tabooed name 名諱|名讳[ming2 hui4] of hierarchical superiors (old)
犯貧	(dialect) to talk nonsense; garrulous
犯錯	to err; to make a mistake; to do the wrong thing
犯難	to feel embarrassed; to feel awkward
犰	used in 犰狳[qiu2 yu2]
犰狳	armadillo
犴	used in 狴犴[bi4 an4]
犵	name of a tribe
犺	fierce dog
犼	mythical man-eating creature resembling a dog
狀	(bound form) form; appearance; shape; (bound form) state; condition
狀元	top scorer in the palace examination (highest rank of the Imperial examination system)
狀告	to sue; to take to court; to file a lawsuit
狀師	(old) legal practitioner; litigation agent
狀態	condition; state; state of affairs
狀態動詞	(linguistics) stative verb
狀態欄	(computing) status bar
狀況	condition; state; situation
狀物	...-shaped thing; to portray sth
狀聲詞	onomatopoeia
狀語	adverbial adjunct (adverb or adverbial clause)
狁	name of a tribe
狂	mad; wild; violent
狂三詐四	to deceive and swindle across the board (idiom)
狂亂	hysterical
狂人	madman
狂人日記	Diary of a Madman by Lu Xun 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4]
狂傲	domineering; haughty
狂吠	to bark furiously; to howl
狂喜	ecstasy; rapt
狂奔	to run like crazy; to rush
狂奴故態	to be set in one's ways (idiom)
狂妄	egotistical; arrogant; brassy
狂妄自大	arrogant and conceited
狂怒	furious
狂恣	arrogant and unbridled
狂悖	(literary) brazen; outrageous; defiant
狂想	fantasy; illusion; vain dream
狂想曲	rhapsody (music)
狂態	display of wild manners; scandalous scene
狂戰士	berserker (Norse warrior or fantasy role-playing character)
狂放	wild; unrestrained
狂暴	frantic; berserk
狂暴者	berserker (fantasy role-playing)
狂歡	party; carousal; hilarity
狂歡節	carnival
狂潮	surging tide; (fig.) tide; craze
狂熱	zealotry; fanatical; feverish
狂牛病	mad cow disease; bovine spongiform encephalopathy, BSE
狂犬疫苗	rabies vaccine
狂犬病	rabies
狂甩	to fling vigorously; fig. to reduce drastically
狂笑	to howl with laughter; to laugh one's head off
狂言	ravings; delirious utterances
狂跌	crazy fall (in prices)
狂躁	rash; impetuous; irritable
狂轟濫炸	to bomb indiscriminately
狂野	coarse and wild
狂頂	(slang) to strongly support; to strongly approve of
狂風	gale; squall; whole gale (meteorology)
狂風暴雨	(idiom) howling wind and torrential rain; furious storm
狂風驟雨	strong wind and heavy rain (idiom)
狂飆	hurricane; violent reform or revolution; violent movement or force
狂飲	to drink hard
狂飲暴食	(idiom) to eat and drink to excess
狂魔	(slang) (used after a noun to mean "obsessive devotee of") maniac; fiend
狃	accustomed to
狄	low ranking public official (old)
狄仁傑	Di Renjie (607-700), Tang dynasty politician, prime minister under Wu Zetian, subsequently hero of legends
狄俄倪索斯	Dionysus, the god of wine in Greek mythology
狄公案	Dee Gong An (or Judge Dee's) Cases, 18th century fantasy featuring Tang dynasty politician Di Renjie 狄仁傑|狄仁杰[Di2 Ren2 jie2] as master sleuth, translated by R.H. van Gulik as Three Murder Cases Solved by Judge Dee
狄奧多	Theodor (name)
狄奧多·阿多諾	Theodor Ludwig Wiesengrund Adorno (1903-1969), German sociologist, philosopher, musicologist, and composer
狄拉克	P.A.M. Dirac (1902-1984), British physicist
狄更斯	Dickens (name); Charles Dickens (1812-1870), great English novelist
狆	Pekingese
狉	puppy badger
狍	Siberian roe deer (Capreolus pygargus)
狍子	Siberian roe deer (Capreolus pygargus)
狎	(bound form) (literary) to take liberties with sb or sth
狎妓	(old) to visit prostitutes
狎昵	intimate; taking liberties; familiar (with a negative connotation)
狐	fox
狐假虎威	lit. the fox exploits the tiger's might (idiom); fig. to use powerful connections to intimidate people
狐女	fox lady
狐朋狗友	a pack of rogues (idiom); a gang of scoundrels
狐步舞	fox-trot (ballroom dance) (loanword)
狐狸	fox; (fig.) sly or crafty person
狐狸尾巴	lit. fox's tail (idiom); visible sign of evil intentions
狐狸座	(astronomy) Vulpecula
狐狸精	fox-spirit; vixen; witch
狐猴	lemur
狐獴	meerkat
狐疑	to doubt; to suspect
狐群狗黨	a skulk of foxes, a pack of dogs (idiom); a gang of rogues
狐臭	body odor; bromhidrosis
狐蝠	flying fox; fruit bat (genus Pteropus)
狒	hamadryad baboon
狒狒	baboon
狓	used in 㺢㹢狓[huo4 jia1 pi2]
狗	dog
狗仔	paparazzi
狗仔式	dog paddle (swimming); doggy style (sex)
狗仔隊	paparazzi
狗仗人勢	a dog threatens based on master's power (idiom); to use one's position to bully others
狗刨	dog paddle (swimming style)
狗吃屎	to fall flat on one's face (vulgar)
狗吠	bark; to bark
狗咬呂洞賓，不識好人心	a dog biting Lü Dongbin (idiom); to ill reward a person's kindness
狗咬狗	dog-eat-dog; dogfight
狗哨	dog whistle; (fig.) dog whistle (in politics)
狗嘴裏吐不出象牙	lit. no ivory comes from the mouth of a dog (idiom)
狗娘養的	son of a bitch
狗子	(coll.) dog
狗尾續貂	lit. to use a dog's tail as a substitute for sable fur (idiom)
狗尾草	green foxtail (Setaria viridis)
狗屁	bullshit; nonsense
狗屁不通	(idiom) (of writing, speech etc) incoherent; nonsensical
狗屋	kennel
狗屎	canine excrement; dog poo; bullshit
狗屎運	(coll.) (other people's) dumb luck
狗展	dog show
狗崽子	(coll.) puppy; (derog.) son of a bitch
狗帶	(Internet slang) to go away; to slink off
狗年	Year of the Dog (e.g. 2006)
狗急跳牆	a cornered dog will jump over the wall (idiom)
狗扯羊皮	to fuss around; to buzz about uselessly; to wag one's tongue
狗拳	Gou Quan - "Dog Fist" - Martial Art
狗拿耗子	lit. a dog who catches mice; to be meddlesome (idiom)
狗改不了吃屎	lit. a dog can't stop himself from eating shit (idiom)
狗日	lit. fucked or spawned by a dog; contemptible; lousy, fucking
狗日的	(vulgar) damned; fucking (attributive intensifier); (vulgar) bastard
狗東西	scumbag; scoundrel
狗洞	dog door
狗熊	black bear; coward
狗爬式	dog paddle (swimming style); doggy style (sex position)
狗牌	dog tag
狗狗	(coll.) dog; doggie
狗狗幣	Dogecoin (cryptocurrency)
狗狗秀	dog show
狗獾	badger
狗男女	a couple engaged in an illicit love affair; a cheating couple
狗皮膏藥	dogskin plaster, used in TCM for treating contusions, rheumatism etc
狗眼看人低	to act like a snob
狗窩	doghouse; kennel
狗竇	dog hole; gap caused by missing teeth; fig. den of thieves
狗竇大開	dog hole wide open (idiom); fig. gap caused by missing teeth (used mockingly)
狗糧	dog food
狗肉	dog meat
狗腿	lackey; henchman
狗腿子	dog's leg; fig. one who follows a villain; henchman
狗膽包天	extremely daring (idiom); foolhardy
狗舍	kennel
狗血	melodramatic; contrived
狗血噴頭	torrent of abuse (idiom)
狗血淋頭	lit. to pour dog's blood on (idiom); fig. torrent of abuse
狗賊	(insult) brigand; swindler
狗逮老鼠	lit. a dog who catches mice (idiom); fig. to be meddlesome
狗門	dog door; dog flap
狗雜碎	piece of shit; scumbag
狗雜種	son of a bitch; damn bastard
狗頭軍師	(derog.) inept advisor; a good-for-nothing adviser
狗鷲	royal eagle
狘	jump
狙	macaque; to spy; to lie in ambush
狙刺	to stab from hiding
狙擊	to snipe (shoot from hiding)
狙擊手	sniper; marksman
狠	ruthless; fierce; ferocious; determined; resolute
狠勁	to exert all one's force; all-out effort
狠命	exerting all one's strength
狠巴巴	very fierce
狠心	callous; heartless; to resolve (to do sth)
狠毒	vicious; malicious; savage
狠狠	resolutely; firmly; ferociously
狠絕	ruthless
狡	crafty; cunning; sly
狡兔三窟	lit. a crafty rabbit has three burrows
狡猾	crafty; cunning; sly
狡獪	(literary) crafty; cunning
狡詐	crafty; cunning; deceitful
狡賴	to deny (through sophism)
狡辯	to deflect blame from oneself with a dishonest story; to make excuses
狡黠	crafty; astute
狦	(archaic) vicious dog; beast resembling a wolf
狨	marmoset (zoology)
狩	to hunt; to go hunting (as winter sport in former times); hunting dog
狩獵	to hunt; hunting
狫	name of a tribe
狳	used in 犰狳[qiu2 yu2]
狴	used in 狴犴[bi4 an4]
狴犴	(literary) mythical creature resembling a tiger whose image was painted on prison doors
狷	impetuous; rash; upright (character)
狸	(bound form) used in the names of small mammals
狸奴	cat (literary or jocular)
狸子	leopard cat
狸花貓	Dragon Li (modern Chinese cat breed)
狸貓	leopard cat
狹	narrow; narrow-minded
狹小	narrow
狹徑	narrow lane
狹窄	narrow
狹義	narrow sense; restricted sense
狹義相對論	(physics) special relativity
狹谷	glen
狹路	gorge
狹路相逢	lit. to meet face to face on a narrow path (idiom)
狹長	long and narrow
狹隘	(of a path etc) narrow; (of a living space etc) cramped
狺	snarling of dogs
狻	used in 狻猊[suan1 ni2]
狻猊	(archaic) lion
狼	wolf
狼井	wolf trap (trou de loup), medieval defensive trap consisting of a concealed pit with sharp spikes
狼人	werewolf
狼僕	(old) henchman
狼吞虎嚥	to wolf down one's food (idiom); to devour ravenously
狼嗥	wolves howling; (fig.) to howl; to ululate
狼圖騰	Wolf Totem, novel by Lü Jiamin 呂嘉民|吕嘉民[Lu:3 Jia1 min2] aka Jiang Rong 姜戎[Jiang1 Rong2]
狼多肉少	many wolves and not enough meat; not enough to go around
狼奔豕突	the wolf runs and the wild boar rushes (idiom); crowds of evil-doers mill around like wild beasts
狼子野心	ambition of wild wolves (idiom); rapacious designs
狼孩	wolf child; human child raised by wolves (in legends)
狼崽	wolf cub
狼心狗肺	lit. heart of wolf and lungs of dog (idiom); cruel and unscrupulous
狼毫	writing brush of weasel bristle
狼煙	smoke signal indicating the presence of hostile forces
狼煙四起	fire beacons on all sides (idiom); enveloped in the flames of war
狼牙山	Mount Langya in Hebei
狼狗	wolfdog
狼狽	in a difficult situation; to cut a sorry figure; scoundrel! (derog.)
狼狽不堪	battered and exhausted; stuck in a dilemma
狼狽為奸	villains collude together (idiom); to work hand in glove with sb (to nefarious ends)
狼獾	wolverine (Gulo gulo), also named 貂熊[diao1 xiong2]
狼瘡	lupus (skin disease)
狼藉	in a mess; scattered about; in complete disorder
狼蛛	wolf spider
狼蟲虎豹	(idiom) ferocious beasts
狼顧	to look over one's shoulder constantly (like a wolf); to be fearful
狽	a legendary wolf; distressed; wretched
猁	used in 猞猁[she1 li4]
猇	the scream or roar of a tiger; to intimidate; to scare
猇亭區	Xiaoting, a district of Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
猈	dog with short shinbone
猊	used in 狻猊[suan1 ni2]
猋	whirlwind
猓	monkey
猖	ferocious
猖亂	wild and disorderly
猖厲	mad and violent
猖披	dishevelled; wild; unrestrained
猖狂	savage; furious
猖猖狂狂	wild; hurried and confused; hell-for-leather
猖獗	to be rampant; to run wild
猗	(interj.)
猘	mad dog
猙	used in 猙獰|狰狞[zheng1 ning2]
猙獰	malevolent; fierce; sinister
猛	ferocious; fierce; violent
猛一看	at first glance; first impression
猛丁	suddenly
猛不防	suddenly; unexpectedly; taken by surprise
猛乍	suddenly; unexpectedly
猛力	with all one's might; with sudden force; violently
猛勁兒	to dash; to put on a spurt; to redouble efforts
猛可	suddenly; in an instant
猛吃	to gobble up; to gorge oneself on (food)
猛地	suddenly
猛增	sharp increase; rapid growth
猛將	fierce general; valiant military leader; fig. brave individual
猛幹	to tie in to
猛打	to strike; wham!
猛撞	to slam (into); to smash (into)
猛撲	to charge; to pounce on; to swoop down on
猛擊	to slap; to smack; to punch
猛攻	to attack violently; to storm
猛料	hot news item; awesome
猛漲	(of water) to soar; (of prices) to skyrocket
猛烈	fierce; violent; vigorous; intense
猛然	suddenly; abruptly
猛獁	mammoth (genus Mammuthus)
猛獸	ferocious beast; fierce animal
猛省	to realize suddenly; to suddenly recall
猛禽	bird of prey
猛藥	strong medicine; potent remedy; (fig.) drastic measure
猛虎	fierce tiger
猛衝	to charge forward
猛跌	drop sharply (e.g. stock prices)
猛進	to advance boldly; to push ahead vigorously
猛醒	to realize suddenly; to wake up to the truth
猛隼	(bird species of China) oriental hobby (Falco severus)
猛鴞	(bird species of China) northern hawk-owl (Surnia ulula)
猛龍怪客	Death wish, movie series with Charles Bronson
猜	to guess
猜不透	to be unable to guess or make out
猜中	to guess correctly; to figure out the right answer
猜度	to surmise; to conjecture
猜得透	to have sufficient insight to perceive; to suspect that ...
猜忌	to be suspicious and jealous of
猜想	to guess; to conjecture; to suppose; (math.) conjecture; hypothesis
猜拳	finger-guessing game; rock-paper-scissors game; morra
猜枚	drinking game where one has to guess the number of small objects in the other player's closed hand
猜測	to guess; to conjecture; to surmise
猜疑	to suspect; to have misgivings; suspicious
猜著	to guess correctly
猜謎	to answer a riddle
猜謎兒	to answer a riddle
猝	abruptly; suddenly; unexpectedly
猝不及防	to be caught off guard; without warning
猝死	to die suddenly
猝然	suddenly; abruptly
猝發	to occur unexpectedly
猝睡症	narcolepsy
猝逝	to die suddenly
猞	used in 猞猁[she1 li4]; Taiwan pr. [she4]
猞猁	lynx
猢	used in 猢猻|猢狲[hu2 sun1]
猢猻	macaque
猣	dog giving birth to three puppies
猥	humble; rustic; plentiful
猥獕	vulgar; despicable; abject
猥瑣	wretched (esp. appearance); vulgar
猥褻	obscene; indecent; to indecently assault
猥褻性暴露	indecent exposure; flashing
猩	ape
猩化	(slang) (of a dialect) to be corrupted by Standard Mandarin
猩猩	orangutan
猩紅	scarlet
猩紅熱	scarlet fever
猩紅色	scarlet (color)
猭	ape; Hylobates agilis
猱	(literary) a kind of gibbon
猲	frightened; terrified
猳	mythical ape
猳國	name of mythical ape
猴	monkey
猴兒	little devil
猴兒精	(dialect) shrewd; clever
猴子	monkey
猴子偷桃	"monkey steals the peach" (martial arts), distracting an opponent with one hand and seizing his testicles with the other
猴孩子	little devil
猴年	Year of the Monkey (e.g. 2004)
猴年馬月	long time off; time that will never come
猴急	impatient; to be in a rush (to do sth); anxious
猴戲	monkey show
猴拳	Hou Quan - "Monkey Fist" - Martial Art
猴猴族	Qauqaut, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
猴王	Sun Wukong, the Monkey King, character with supernatural powers in the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]
猴痘	monkeypox; mpox
猴皮筋	(coll.) rubber band
猴米	(slang) (loanword) homie
猴精	(coll.) clever; shrewd
猴頭菇	Hericium erinaceus
猴麵包樹	African baobab; monkey-bread tree (Adansonia digitata)
猵	used in 猵狙[pian4 ju1]
猵狙	mythical beast similar to an ape with dog's head
猶	as if; (just) like; just as
猶之乎	just like (sth)
猶他	Utah
猶他州	Utah
猶地亞	Judea
猶大	Judas; Judah (son of Jacob)
猶大書	Epistle of St Jude (in New Testament)
猶太	the Jews; Judea
猶太人	Jew
猶太復國主義	Zionism
猶太復國主義者	a Zionist
猶太教	Judaism
猶太教堂	synagogue
猶太會堂	synagogue
猶太法典	the Talmud
猶女	niece (old)
猶如	similar to; like
猶子	(old) brother's son or daughter; nephew
猶未為晚	it is not too late (idiom)
猶疑	to hesitate
猶自	(literary) still; yet
猶言	can be compared to; is the same as
猶豫	to hesitate
猶豫不決	hesitancy; indecision; to waver
猶達	Jude
猶達斯	Judas (name)
猷	to plan; to scheme
猸	used for ferret, badger or mongoose
猸子	mongoose
猹	Badger-like wild animal
猺	Yao tribe
猻	used in 猢猻|猢狲[hu2 sun1]; used in 兔猻|兔狲[tu4 sun1]
猾	sly
猿	ape
猿人	apeman
猿猴	apes and monkeys
猿玃	legendary ape of Sichuan and Yunnan, with a penchant for carrying off girls
猿臂	arms like those of an ape — muscular, or long and dexterous
獀	dog (dial.); to hunt
獁	used in 猛獁|猛犸[meng3 ma3]; Taiwan pr. [ma4]
獃	foolish; stupid (variant of 呆[dai1])
獄	prison
獄卒	jailer (old)
獄吏	prison guard; jailer (old)
獄警	prison officer
獅	(bound form) lion
獅城	the Lion City, nickname for Singapore 新加坡[Xin1 jia1 po1]
獅子	Leo (star sign)
獅子大開口	(saying) (fig.) to make an exorbitant demand; to ask for an outrageously high price
獅子山	(Tw) Sierra Leone
獅子座	Leo (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
獅子林園	Lion Grove Garden in Suzhou, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
獅子狗	Pekingese; Pekinese
獅子頭	large meatball ("lion's head")
獅尾狒	gelada (Theropithecus gelada), Ethiopian herbivorous monkey similar to baboon
獅心王理查	Richard the Lionheart (1157-1199), King Richard I of England 1189-1199
獅泉河	Sengge Tsangpo or Shiquan River in west Tibet, the upper reaches of the Indus
獅虎獸	liger, hybrid cross between a male lion and a tigress
獅身人面像	sphinx
獅頭石竹	grenadine; carnation; clove pink
獅鷲	griffin
獉	jungle
獍	a mythical animal that eats its mother
獎	prize; award; bonus; reward
獎券	raffle or lottery ticket
獎勵	to reward; reward (as encouragement)
獎勵旅行	incentive travel
獎勵旅遊	incentive travel
獎品	award; prize
獎學金	scholarship
獎懲	rewards and penalties
獎挹	to reward and promote
獎掖	to reward and promote
獎杯	trophy cup
獎池	(gambling) prize pool; jackpot
獎牌	medal (awarded as a prize)
獎牌榜	medal table; tally of trophies; list of prizewinners
獎狀	prize certificate; certificate of merit
獎章	medal
獎賞	reward; prize; award
獎酬	incentive; reward
獎金	premium; award money; bonus
獎項	award; prize
獐	river deer; roebuck
獐頭鼠目	lit. the head of a river deer and the eyes of a rat (idiom)
獒	(bound form) mastiff
獒犬	mastiff (dog breed)
獕	used in 猥獕[wei3 cui1]
獗	used in 猖獗[chang1 jue2]
獘	to collapse
獙	used in 獙獙[bi4 bi4]
獙獙	mythological beast resembling a fox with wings
獚	spaniel
獝	(literary) (of birds) to scatter in fear
獞	name of a variety of dog; wild tribes in South China
獠	fierce; hunt; name of a tribe
獠牙	tusk; fang
獢	dog
獧	nimble; impetuous; rash
獨	alone; independent; single
獨一	only; unique
獨一無二	(idiom) unique; unmatched; unrivalled
獨二代	second generation only child
獨享	to have sth to oneself
獨來獨往	(idiom) to come and go alone; to act independently; (fig.) to keep to oneself; to be a loner
獨個	alone
獨具	to have unique (talent, insight etc)
獨具匠心	original and ingenious (idiom); to show great creativity
獨具隻眼	to see what others fail to see (idiom); to have exceptional insight
獨出一時	incomparable; head and shoulders above the competition
獨出心裁	to display originality (idiom); to do things differently
獨到	original
獨創	to come up with (an innovation); innovation
獨創性	innovative; ingenious; originality; ingenuity
獨力	all by oneself; without exterior help
獨占	to have all to oneself; to monopolize
獨占鰲頭	(idiom) to come first in triennial palace examinations (refers to the carved stone turtle head in front of the imperial palace, next to which the most successful candidate in the imperial examinations was entitled to stand); to be the champion; to be the very best in any field
獨吞	to hog; to keep everything for oneself
獨唱	(in singing) solo; to solo
獨善其身	(idiom) (originally, in Mencius) to cultivate one's moral character in solitude; (modern sense) to look after only one's own interests
獨在異鄉為異客	a stranger in a strange land (from a poem by Wang Wei 王維|王维[Wang2 Wei2])
獨大	to dominate over all others; to wield all the power; to reign supreme
獨夫	sole ruler; dictator
獨夫民賊	tyrant and oppressor of the people (idiom); traitorous dictator
獨奏	solo
獨女	a daughter who is an only child
獨子	a son who is an only child
獨子蒜	solo garlic; single-clove garlic
獨孤	two-character surname Dugu
獨孤求敗	Dugu Qiubai, a fictional character appearing in 金庸[Jin1 Yong1] novels
獨守空房	(of a married woman) to stay home alone
獨家	exclusive
獨尊	to revere as sole orthodoxy
獨尊儒術	dismiss the hundred schools, revere only the Confucians (slogan of the Former Han dynasty)
獨居	to live alone; to live a solitary existence
獨居石	monazite
獨屬	belonging exclusively to; exclusively for; reserved to
獨山子區	Dushanzi, a district of Karamay City 克拉瑪依市|克拉玛依市[Ke4 la1 ma3 yi1 Shi4], Xinjiang
獨山縣	Dushan, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
獨島	Dokdo (Japanese Takeshima 竹島|竹岛[Zhu2 dao3]), disputed islands in Sea of Japan
獨攬	to monopolize
獨攬市場	to monopolize a market
獨放異彩	to project singular splendor or radiance; to perform brilliantly
獨斷	to decide alone without consultation; arbitrary; dictatorial
獨斷專行	to decide and act alone (idiom); to take arbitrary action
獨斷獨行	to decide and act alone (idiom); to take arbitrary action
獨有	to own exclusively; unique to; specific; there is only
獨木不成林	a lone tree does not make a forest (idiom)
獨木橋	single-log bridge; (fig.) difficult path
獨木舟	dugout; canoe; kayak
獨棟	(of a building) detached
獨樹一幟	lit. to fly one's banner on a solitary tree (idiom); fig. to act as a loner
獨樹一格	to have a unique style of one's own (idiom)
獨步	lit. walking alone; prominent; unrivalled
獨特	unique; distinctive
獨狼	lone wolf
獨獨	alone
獨生	only (child); without siblings; to be the sole survivor
獨生女	a daughter who is an only child
獨生子	a son who is an only child
獨生子女	an only child
獨生子女政策	one-child policy
獨當一面	to assume personal responsibility (idiom); to take charge of a section
獨白	stage monologue; soliloquy
獨眼巨人	cyclops
獨眼龍	one-eyed person
獨秀	to surpass; to stand above the crowd
獨立	independent; independence; to stand alone
獨立中文筆會	Independent Chinese PEN center
獨立國家聯合體	Commonwealth of Independent States (former Soviet Union)
獨立報	The Independent
獨立宣言	Declaration of Independence
獨立戰爭	war of independence
獨立自主	independent and autonomous (idiom); self-determination
獨立選民	independent voter
獨立鑽石	solitaire (puzzle)
獨立門戶	to live apart from parents (of married couple)
獨立顯卡	(computing) discrete GPU; dedicated GPU
獨聯體	Commonwealth of Independent States (former Soviet Union)
獨腳跳	to jump on one foot; to hop
獨膽	individually courageous
獨臂	one-armed
獨自	alone
獨舞	solo dance
獨苗	only child; sole scion
獨處	to live alone; to spend time alone (or with a significant other)
獨行	solitary
獨行俠	loner; lone wolf
獨行其是	to go one's own way (idiom); to act independently without asking others
獨裁	dictatorship
獨裁者	dictator; autocrat
獨角仙	rhinoceros beetle
獨角戲	monodrama; one-man show; comic talk
獨角獸	unicorn
獨角鯨	narwhal (Monodon monoceros)
獨詞句	one-word sentence
獨語	solo part (in opera); soliloquy
獨資	wholly-owned (often by foreign company); exclusive investment
獨身	unmarried; single; alone
獨輪車	wheelbarrow; unicycle
獨辟蹊徑	to blaze a new trail (idiom); to display originality
獨酌	to drink alone
獨院	one family courtyard
獨霸	to dominate (a market etc); to monopolize
獨霸一方	to exercise sole hegemony (idiom); to dominate a whole area (market, resources etc)
獨領風騷	most outstanding; par excellence
獨頭蒜	solo garlic; single-clove garlic
獨顯	(computing) discrete GPU; dedicated GPU (abbr. for 獨立顯卡|独立显卡[du2 li4 xian3 ka3])
獨體	autonomous body; independent system
獨體字	single-component character
獨龍	Derung ethnic group
獨龍族	Derung ethnic group
獨龍江	Dulong river in northwest Yunnan on border with Myanmar, tributary of Salween or Nujiang 怒江, sometimes referred to as number four of Three parallel rivers 三江並流|三江并流, wildlife protection unit
獪	crafty; cunning
獫	a kind of dog with a long snout
獫狁	Zhou Dynasty term for a northern nomadic tribe later called the Xiongnu 匈奴[Xiong1 nu2] in the Qin and Han Dynasties
獬豸	Xiezhi, mythical Chinese unicorn
獮	to hunt in autumn (archaic)
獯	used in 獯鬻[Xun1 yu4]
獰	fierce-looking
獰笑	to laugh nastily; evil grin
獰貓	caracal
獲	(literary) to catch; to capture; (literary) to get; to obtain; to win
獲准	to obtain permission
獲刑	(law) to be sentenced
獲利	profit; to obtain benefits; benefits obtained
獲利回吐	(finance) profit-taking
獲勝	to win
獲勝者	victor
獲取	to gain; to get; to acquire
獲嘉縣	Huojia, a county in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
獲報	to receive a report; to receive intelligence, information etc
獲客	to acquire customers; customer acquisition
獲得	to obtain; to receive; to get
獲得性	acquired (i.e. not inborn)
獲得感	sense of gain
獲得者	recipient
獲悉	to learn of sth; to find out; to get news
獲批	to be approved
獲救	to be rescued; to be saved
獲獎	to win an award
獲獎者	prizewinner
獲益	to profit from sth; to get benefit
獲益者	beneficiary
獲知	to learn of (an event); to hear about (sth)
獲罪	to be deemed guilty; to be convicted
獲贈	to receive; to be given; to be presented with
獲釋	freed (from prison); to obtain release
獳	angry dog
獴	mongoose; Taiwan pr. [meng2]
獴科	Herpestidae (zoology)
獵	hunting
獵人	hunter
獵刀	hunting knife
獵取	to hunt; (fig.) to seek (fame etc)
獵場	hunting ground
獵奇	to hunt for novelty; to seek novelty
獵巫	to conduct a witch hunt
獵戶	hunter
獵戶座	Orion (constellation)
獵戶座大星雲	the Great Nebula in Orion M42
獵戶座流星雨	Orionids; Orionid meteor shower
獵戶臂	Orion spiral arm or local spur of our galaxy (containing our solar system)
獵手	hunter
獵捕	to hunt; hunting
獵槍	hunting gun; shotgun
獵殺	to kill (in hunting)
獵殺紅色十月號	"The Hunt for Red October", a novel by Tom Clancy
獵潛	anti-submarine (warfare)
獵潛艇	anti-submarine vessel
獵物	prey; quarry
獵犬	hound; hunting dog
獵犬座	Canes Venatici (constellation)
獵狗	hunting dog
獵艷	to chase women; to express oneself in a pompous flowery style
獵豹	cheetah
獵隼	(bird species of China) saker falcon (Falco cherrug)
獵頭	headhunting (executive recruitment); headhunter (profession)
獵鷹	falcon
獷	rough; uncouth; boorish
獸	beast; animal; beastly
獸交	bestiality (sex with an animal)
獸力車	animal-drawn vehicle; carriage
獸姦	bestiality
獸性	brutal
獸慾	beastly desire
獸父	(derog.) father who sexually abuses his own child
獸疫	epizootic
獸病理學	veterinary pathology
獸皮	animal skin; hide
獸穴	animal den
獸腳亞目	suborder Theropoda (beast-footed dinosaur group) within order Saurischia containing carnivorous dinosaurs
獸腳類恐龍	theropod (beast-footed dinosaur group)
獸藥	veterinary medicines
獸行	brutal act; bestiality
獸術	animal training; skill with animals
獸裝	fursuit
獸迷	furry (fan of anthropomorphic animal characters)
獸醫	veterinarian; veterinary surgeon; vet
獸醫學	veterinary medicine; veterinary science
獸類	animals
獺	otter; Taiwan pr. [ta4]
獻	to offer; to present; to dedicate
獻上	to offer (respectfully); to present
獻出	to offer; to give (as tribute); to devote (one's life)
獻唱	to perform a song
獻媚	to ingratiate oneself with; to pander to
獻寶	to present a treasure; to offer a valuable piece of advice
獻愛心	to give to the needy; to donate to charity
獻殷勤	to be particularly attentive to (an attractive young lady or man etc); to fawn upon (an influential politician etc); to court sb's favor; to ingratiate oneself
獻祭	to offer sacrifice
獻禮	to offer sth in tribute (often on a special occasion); to dedicate
獻策	to offer advice; to make a suggestion
獻縣	Xian County or Xianxian, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
獻花	to offer flowers; to lay flowers (as a memorial)
獻處	to give one's virginity to
獻血	to donate blood
獻血者	blood donor
獻計	to offer advice; to make a suggestion
獻詞	congratulatory message
獻身	to commit one's energy to; to devote oneself to
獻醜	(used self-deprecatingly, e.g. when asked to sing a song) to put one's artistic incompetence on display
獻金	to donate money; (monetary) contribution
獼	used in 獼猴|猕猴[mi2 hou2]
獼猴	macaque
獼猴桃	kiwi fruit; Chinese gooseberry
獾	badger
玀	used in 豬玀|猪猡[zhu1 luo2]
玂	dog giving birth to a puppy
玃	legendary ape of Sichuan and Yunnan, with a penchant for carrying off girls
玃猿	legendary ape of Sichuan and Yunnan, with a penchant for carrying off girls
玄	black; mysterious
玄之又玄	mystery within a mystery
玄乎	unreliable; incredible
玄參	Ningpo figwort (Scrophularia ningpoensis)
玄圃	mythical fairyland on Kunlun Mountain 崑崙|昆仑[Kun1 lun2]
玄奘	Xuanzang (602-664), Tang dynasty Buddhist monk and translator who traveled to India 629-645
玄奧	abstruse; profound mystery; the mysteries of the universe
玄妙	mysterious; profound; abstruse
玄孫	great-great-grandson
玄學	Wei and Jin philosophical school amalgamating Daoist and Confucian ideals
玄幻	xuanhuan, a fusion of Western and Eastern fantasy (subgenre of Chinese fantasy fiction)
玄機	profound theory (in Daoism and Buddhism); mysterious principles
玄武	Black Tortoise (the seven mansions of the north sky)
玄武區	Xuanwu, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
玄武岩	(geology) basalt
玄武質熔岩	basalt; also written 玄熔岩[xuan2 rong2 yan2]
玄武門之變	Xuanwu gate coup of June 626 in early Tang, in which Li Shimin 李世民 killed his brothers, seized the throne from his father as Emperor Taizong 唐太宗
玄狐	silver or black fox (Vulpes alopex argentatus)
玄理	profound theory; philosophical theory of Wei and Jin 玄學|玄学 sect
玄石	(literary) black stone (esp. one used for steles and tombstones); tombstone; stele
玄秘	mystery; mysterious; occult
玄米茶	genmaicha; Japanese tea with added roasted brown rice
玄色	black (without gloss); black with a hint of red in it
玄菟郡	Xuantu commandery (108 BC-c. 300 AD), one of four Han dynasty commanderies in north Korea
玄虛	(intentionally) mysterious; arcane
玄遠	profound; abstruse mystery
玄關	entrance hall; vestibule
玄青	deep black
玆	now; here; this
率	(bound form) ratio; rate; proportion
率先	to take the lead; to show initiative
率性	to act naturally, authentically and spontaneously (whether seen as admirable – "bold" – or problematic – "impulsive")
率然	hastily; rashly; suddenly
率爾操觚	to compose in off-hand way (idiom); to dash off
率獸食人	lit. to lead beasts to eat the people (idiom); fig. tyrannical government oppresses the people
率由舊章	to act in accordance with the old rules (idiom)
率直	frank; straightforward; blunt
率真	frank and sincere; candid
率領	to lead; to command; to head
玈	black
玉	jade
玉人	a jade worker; a jade statuette; a beautiful person
玉人吹簫	virtuoso piper wins a beauty
玉佩	jade pendant; jade ornament
玉兔	the Jade Hare (legendary rabbit said to live in the Moon); the Moon
玉器	jade artifact
玉夫座	Sculptor (constellation)
玉女	beautiful woman; fairy maiden attending the Daoist immortals
玉屏侗族自治縣	Yuping Dong Autonomous County, in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
玉山	Mount Yu, the highest mountain in Taiwan (3952 m)
玉山噪鶥	(bird species of China) white-whiskered laughingthrush (Trochalopteron morrisonianum)
玉山縣	Yushan, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
玉山雀鶥	(bird species of China) Taiwan fulvetta (Fulvetta formosana)
玉川	Tamagawa (Japanese place name and surname)
玉川市	Tamagawa city in Akita prefecture, Japan
玉州區	Yuzhou, a district of Yulin City 玉林市[Yu4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
玉帝	the Jade Emperor
玉帶海鵰	(bird species of China) Pallas's fish eagle (Haliaeetus leucoryphus)
玉成	please help achieve something (formal)
玉手	lily-white hands
玉普西隆	upsilon (Greek letter Υυ)
玉札	great burnet (Sanguisorba officinalis), a plant whose root is used in TCM
玉林市	Yulin, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
玉樹市	Yushu, a county-level city in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 玉樹藏族自治州|玉树藏族自治州[Yu4 shu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
玉樹藏族自治州	Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
玉泉	nephrite (used in TCM)
玉泉區	Yuquan, a district of Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
玉泉營	Yuquanying
玉溪市	Yuxi, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
玉潔冰清	clear as ice and clean as jade (idiom); spotless; irreproachable
玉玉症	(slang) clinical depression
玉玦	penannular jade pendant (often used as a symbol of separation or resolution, for homophony reasons)
玉珉	jade and jade-like stone
玉璞	stone containing jade; uncut jade
玉環市	Yuhuan, a county-level city in Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
玉田縣	Yutian, a county in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
玉皇	Jade Emperor (in Taoism)
玉皇大帝	Jade Emperor
玉皇頂	Jade Emperor Peak on Mt Tai in Shandong
玉石	jade; jade and stone; (fig.) the good and the bad
玉石俱焚	to burn both jade and common stone
玉竹	angular Solomon's seal; Polygonatum odoratum
玉篇	Yupian, Chinese dictionary compiled by Gu Yewang 顧野王|顾野王[Gu4 Ye3 wang2] in 6th century AD
玉米	corn; maize
玉米棒	corn cob
玉米澱粉	corn starch
玉米片	cornflakes; tortilla chips
玉米筍	baby corn
玉米粉	cornflour; corn starch
玉米粒	corn kernel
玉米糕	corn cake; polenta (corn mush)
玉米糖漿	corn syrup
玉米糝	corn grits
玉米花	popcorn
玉米赤霉烯酮	zearalenone
玉米餅	corn cake; Mexican tortilla
玉米麵	cornmeal; maize flour
玉紅省	rubicene (chemistry)
玉素甫	Yusuf, Arabic given name (Joseph)
玉荷包	jade purse, a cultivar of lychee
玉莖	(literary) penis
玉蘭	Yulan magnolia
玉蘭花	magnolia
玉蜀黍	corn
玉螺	moon snail (sea snail of the Naticidae family)
玉衡	Alioth; Epsilon Ursae Majoris in the Big Dipper
玉門	(literary) vaginal opening; vulva
玉門市	Yumen, a county-level city in Jiuquan City 酒泉市[Jiu3 quan2 Shi4], Gansu
玉門關	Yumen Pass, or Jade Gate, western frontier post on the Silk Road in the Han Dynasty, west of Dunhuang, in Gansu
玉露	gyokuro (shaded Japanese green tea); (old) early-morning autumn dew
玉音	(deferential) your letter
玉頭姬鶲	(bird species of China) sapphire flycatcher (Ficedula sapphira)
玉髓	(mineralogy) chalcedony; exquisite wine
玉龍納西族自治縣	Yulong Naxi Autonomous County, in Lijiang City 麗江市|丽江市[Li4 jiang1 Shi4], Yunnan
玉龍雪山	Mt Yulong or Jade dragon in Lijiang 麗江|丽江, northwest Yunnan
玊	jade with a blemish; person who cuts and polishes jade
王	king or monarch; best or strongest of its type; grand
王不留行	cowherb (Vaccaria segetalis); cowherb seeds (used in TCM)
王世充	Wang Shichong (-621), general of late Sui and opponent of early Tang
王丹	Wang Dan (1969-), Chinese dissident, one of the leaders of the Beijing student democracy movement of 1989
王五	Wang Wu, name for an unspecified person, third of a series of three: 張三|张三[Zhang1 San1], 李四[Li3 Si4], 王五 Tom, Dick and Harry
王仙芝	Wang Xianzhi, peasant leader during Huang Chao peasant uprising 黃巢起義|黄巢起义 875-884 in late Tang
王伾	Wang Pi (-c. 806), Tang dynasty chancellor and a leader of failed Yongzhen reform 永貞革新|永贞革新 of 805
王位	title of king; kingship
王侯	aristocracy
王侯公卿	aristocracy
王侯將相	(lit.) kings, nobles, generals and ministers (idiom)
王儲	crown prince
王充	Wang Chong (27-97), rationalist and critical philosopher
王八	softshell turtle; cuckold; (old) male owner of a brothel
王八蛋	bastard; son of a bitch
王公	princes and dukes; aristocrat
王冠	crown
王力	Wang Li (1900-1986), one of the pioneers of modern Chinese linguistics
王力宏	Wang Lee-Hom (1976-), Taiwanese-American singer
王力雄	Wang Lixiong (1953-), Chinese writer, author of Yellow Peril 黃禍|黄祸[Huang2 huo4]
王勃	Wang Bo (650-676), one of the Four Great Poets of the Early Tang 初唐四傑|初唐四杰[Chu1 Tang2 Si4 jie2]
王勵勤	Wang Liqin (1978-), former PRC table tennis player, Olympic medalist
王化	beneficial influence of the sovereign
王叔文	Wang Shuwen (735–806), Tang dynasty scholar, politician and Go player, leader of the failed Yongzhen Reform 永貞革新|永贞革新[Yong3 zhen1 Ge2 xin1] of 805
王后	queen
王君如	Cyndi Wang (1982-), Taiwanese singer and actress
王嘉爾	Jackson Wang (1994–), Hong Kong singer, rapper and dancer, member of GOT7 and founder of Team Wang
王國	kingdom; realm
王國維	Wang Guowei (1877-1927), noted scholar
王國聚會所	Kingdom Hall (place of worship used by Jehovah's Witnesses)
王士禛	Wang Shizhen (1634-1711), early Qing poet
王太后	Queen Dowager (in Europe); widowed queen; Queen mother
王夫之	Wang Fuzhi (1619-1692), wide-ranging scholar of the Ming-Qing transition
王妃	princess (in Europe)
王婆賣瓜，自賣自誇	every potter praises his own pot (idiom); all one's geese are swans
王子	prince; son of a king
王孫	children of the nobility
王安石	Wang Anshi (1021-1086), Song dynasty politician and writer, one of the Eight Giants 唐宋八大家
王室	royal family; royal household
王宮	imperial palace
王家	princely
王家衛	Wong Kar-wai (1956-), Hong Kong film director
王實甫	Wang Shifu (fl. 1295-1307), author of Romance of the West Chamber 西廂記|西厢记
王導	Wang Dao (276-339), powerful official of Jin dynasty and brother of general Wang Dun 王敦, regent of Jin from 325
王小波	Wang Xiaobo (1952-1997), scholar and novelist
王岐山	Wang Qishan (1948-), PRC politician
王岱輿	Wang Daiyu (1584-1670), Hui Islamic scholar of the Ming-Qing transition
王希孟	Wang Ximeng (c. 1096-c. 1119), Song artist, probably teenage prodigy who died young, painter of Thousand Miles of Landscape 千里江山
王平	Wang Ping (1962-2013), PRC crosstalk actor
王府	prince's mansion
王府井	Wangfujing, a shopping district in Beijing, known for its pedestrian street, luxury brands, traditional stores and vibrant food markets
王座	throne
王弼	Wang Bi (226-249), Chinese neo-Daoist philosopher
王心凌	stage name of Cyndi Wang
王敦	Wang Dun (266-324), powerful general of Jin dynasty and brother of civil official Wang Dao 王導|王导, subsequently rebellious warlord 322-324
王明	Wang Ming (1904-1974), Soviet-trained Chinese communist, Comintern and Soviet stooge and left adventurist in the 1930s, fell out with Mao and moved to Soviet Union from 1956
王昭君	Wang Zhaojun (52-19 BC), famous beauty at the court of Han emperor Yuan 漢元帝|汉元帝[Han4 Yuan2 di4], one of the four legendary beauties 四大美女[si4 da4 mei3 nu:3]
王朔	Wang Shuo (1958-), Chinese writer, director and actor
王朝	dynasty
王楊盧駱	abbr. for Wang Bo 王勃[Wang2 Bo2], Yang Jiong 楊炯|杨炯[Yang2 Jiong3], Lu Zhaolin 盧照鄰|卢照邻[Lu2 Zhao4 lin2], and Luo Binwang 駱賓王|骆宾王[Luo4 Bin1 wang2], the Four Great Poets of the Early Tang
王楠	Wang Nan (1978-), female PRC table tennis player, Olympic medalist
王權	royalty; royal power
王欽若	Wang Qinruo (962-1025), Northern Song dynasty official
王毅	Wang Yi (1953-), PRC foreign minister (2013-) and state councilor (2018-)
王母	another name for 西王母[Xi1 wang2 mu3], Queen Mother of the West
王母娘娘	another name for Xi Wangmu 西王母, Queen Mother of the West
王水	Aqua regia
王永民	Wang Yongmin (1943-), inventor of the five stroke input method 五筆輸入法|五笔输入法[wu3 bi3 shu1 ru4 fa3]
王治郅	Wang Zhizhi (1977-), former Chinese basketball player
王法	the law; the law of the land; the law of a state (in former times)
王洪文	Wang Hongwen (1935-1992), one of the Gang of Four
王炸	both jokers, the unbeatable play in the card game "dou dizhu" 鬥地主|斗地主[dou4 di4 zhu3]
王爺	prince; marquis; nobleman
王牌	(card games) trump card
王猛	Wang Meng (325-375), prime minister to Fu Jian 苻堅|苻坚[Fu2 Jian1] of Former Qin 前秦[Qian2 Qin2]
王益區	Wangyi, a district of Tongchuan City 銅川市|铜川市[Tong2 chuan1 Shi4], Shaanxi
王碼	Wang code, same as 五筆字型|五笔字型[wu3 bi3 zi4 xing2], five stroke input method for Chinese characters by numbered strokes, invented by Wang Yongmin 王永民[Wang2 Yong3 min2] in 1983
王祖賢	Joey Wong (1967-), Taiwanese actress
王禹偁	Wang Yucheng (954-1001) Song dynasty literary figure
王穎	Wayne Wang (1949-), Chinese US film director
王粲	Wang Can (177-217), poet, generally regarded as the most brilliant of "the seven masters of Jian'an" 建安[Jian4 an1]
王維	Wang Wei (701-761), Tang Dynasty poet
王義夫	Wang Yifu (1960-), male PRC pistol shooter and Olympic medalist
王羲之	Wang Xizhi (303-361), famous calligrapher of Eastern Jin, known as the sage of calligraphy 書聖|书圣
王老五	bachelor (lit. fifth child of the Wangs)
王老吉	Wanglaoji (beverage brand)
王者	king; emperor; (fig.) the best; champion
王肅	Wang Su (c. 195-256), classical scholar of Cao Wei dynasty, believed to have forged several classical texts
王英	Wang Ying (character in the "Water Margin")
王莽	Wang Mang (45 BC-23 AD), usurped power and reigned 9-23 between the former and later Han
王菲	Faye Wong (1969-), Hong Kong pop star and actress
王著	Wang Zhu (-c. 990), Song calligrapher and writer
王軍霞	Wang Junxia (1973-), Chinese long-distance runner
王道	the Way of the King; statecraft; benevolent rule
王選	Wang Xuan (1937-2006), Chinese printing industry innovator
王錦蛇	king ratsnake (Elaphe carinata)
王陽明	Wang Yangming (1472-1529), Ming dynasty Neo-Confucian philosopher, influential in the School of Mind 心學|心学[xin1 xue2]
王震	Wang Zhen (1908-1993), Chinese political figure
玎	jingling; tinkling
玎玲	(onom.) ding-a-ling; clink of jewels
玒	(a kind of jade); Taiwan pr. [gong1]
玓	pearly
玓瓅	brilliance of pearls
玔	jade ring
玕	(inferior gem)
玖	black jade; nine (banker's anti-fraud numeral)
玗	semiprecious stone; a kind of jade
玘	type of jade ornament for court dress (old)
玞	a kind of jade
玟	jade-like stone
玠	jade tablet indicating rank
玢	(literary) a kind of jade
玤	(gem)
玥	pearl used in sacrifice
玦	penannular jade pendant
玨	gems mounted together
玩	to play; to have fun; to trifle with
玩不起	can't afford to play; (fig.) can't accept it when one loses
玩世不恭	to trifle without respect (idiom); to despise worldly conventions
玩人喪德	to play with others and offend morals; wicked
玩伴	playmate
玩偶	toy figurine; action figure; stuffed animal
玩偶之家	Doll's House (1879), drama by Ibsen 易卜生
玩兒	to play; to have fun; to hang out
玩兒不轉	can't handle it; can't find any way (of doing sth); not up to the task
玩兒命	to gamble with life; to take reckless risks
玩兒壞	to play tricks on sb
玩兒完	erhua form of 玩完[wan2 wan2]
玩兒得轉	can handle it; up to the task
玩兒票	amateur dramatics
玩兒花招	to play tricks
玩具	plaything; toy
玩具廠	toy factory
玩具槍	toy gun
玩味	to ruminate; to ponder subtleties
玩咖	(slang) player; playboy; party guy
玩器	elegant plaything; object to appreciate
玩失蹤	to hide oneself (as a joke)
玩完	(coll.) to end in failure; to come to grief; to bite the dust
玩家	player (of a game); enthusiast (audio, model planes etc)
玩家角色	player character (in a role-playing game)
玩弄	to play with; to toy with; to dally with
玩弄詞藻	to juggle with words (dishonestly)
玩忽	to neglect; to trifle with; not to take seriously
玩忽職守	to neglect one's duty; dereliction of duty; malpractice
玩意	toy; plaything; thing
玩手腕	to play tricks; to play at politics
玩樂	to play around; to disport oneself
玩法	to play fast and loose with the law; to game the system
玩火	to play with fire
玩火自焚	to play with fire and get burnt (idiom); fig. to play with evil and suffer the consequences
玩牌	to play cards; to play mahjong
玩物	toy; plaything
玩物喪志	lit. trifling destroys the will (idiom); infatuation with fine details prevents one making progress
玩狎	to trifle; to dally with; to treat casually
玩笑	to joke; joke; jest
玩索	to search for subtle traces; to ponder
玩者	player
玩耍	to play (as children do); to amuse oneself
玩興	interest in dallying; in the mood for playing
玩花招	to play tricks
玩話	playful talk; joking
玩賞	to appreciate; to take pleasure in; to enjoy
玩轉	to know all the ins and outs of sth
玩遍	to visit (a large number of places)
玩陰的	(coll.) to play dirty; to use underhanded tactics
玫	(fine jade); used in 玫瑰[mei2 gui1]
玫瑰	rugosa rose (shrub) (Rosa rugosa) (CL:棵[ke1])
玫瑰念珠	rosary (Catholic prayer beads)
玫瑰戰爭	The Wars of the Roses (1455-1485)
玫瑰星雲	Rosette nebula NGC 2237
玫瑰果	rose hip
玫瑰花	rose
玫瑰茄	roselle (Hibiscus sabdariffa)
玫紅眉朱雀	(bird species of China) pink-browed rosefinch (Carpodacus rodochroa)
玭	pearl
玲	(onom.) ting-a-ling (in compounds such as 玎玲 or 玲瓏|玲珑)
玲玲	(onom.) tinkling (e.g. of jewels)
玲瓏	(onom.) clink of jewels; exquisite; detailed and fine
玲瓏剔透	exquisitely made; very clever
玳	tortoise shell; turtle
玳瑁	hawksbill turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata); tortoiseshell
玳瑁殼	tortoise shell
玳瑁眼鏡	hawksbill shell-rimmed eyeglasses
玶	name of one kind of jade
玷	blemish; disgrace; flaw in jade
玷污	to stain; to sully; to tarnish
玷辱	to dishonor; to disgrace
玹	jadelike precious stone; jade-colored
玻利尼西亞	Polynesia
玻利維亞	Bolivia
玻尿酸	hyaluronic acid; hyaluronan
玻意耳	Robert Boyle (1627-1691), English chemist
玻爾茲曼	Ludwig Boltzmann (1844-1906), Austrian physicist and philosopher
玻片	glass slide for medical sample
玻璃	glass; (slang) male homosexual
玻璃化	vitrification
玻璃市	Perlis, state of Malaysia adjacent to Thailand, capital Kangar 加央[Jia1 yang1]
玻璃心	(slang) overly sensitive; butthurt
玻璃杯	drinking glass
玻璃水	windshield washer fluid
玻璃球	a marble (used in games)
玻璃砂	siliceous sand (geology)
玻璃管	glass tube
玻璃紙	cellophane
玻璃纖維	fiberglass; glass fiber
玻璃罩	glass cover; bell glass
玻璃鋼	glass-reinforced plastic; fiberglass
玻璃體	vitreous humor
玻纖	fiberglass; glass fiber (abbr. for 玻璃纖維|玻璃纤维[bo1 li2 xian1 wei2])
玻色子	boson (particle physics)
玻里尼西亞	Polynesia (Tw)
玼	clear (as in a gem)
玿	(literary) a kind of fine jade
珀	used in 琥珀[hu3 po4]
珀斯	Perth, capital of Western Australia; also written 帕斯
珀西·比希·雪萊	Percy Bysshe Shelley (1792-1822), English Romantic poet
珂	jade-like stone
珂羅版	collotype (printing) (loanword)
珃	(jade)
珅	a kind of jade
珇	carving on jade
珈	(literary) jade ornament worn in the hair by women in ancient China
珉	jade-like stone
珊	coral
珊卓	Sandra (name)
珊瑚	coral
珊瑚礁	coral reef
珋	(literary) lustrous precious stone
珌	gem on scabbard
珍	precious thing; treasure; culinary delicacy
珍·奧斯汀	Jane Austen (1775-1817), English novelist
珍品	valuable object; curio
珍多冰	cendol, Southeast Asian iced sweet dessert
珍奇	rare; strange
珍奶	abbr. for pearl milk tea 珍珠奶茶
珍寶	a treasure
珍惜	to treasure; to value; to cherish
珍愛	to cherish
珍珠	pearl (CL:顆|颗[ke1],粒[li4]); (fig.) teardrop; tear
珍珠奶茶	pearl milk tea; tapioca milk tea; bubble milk tea
珍珠岩	perlite
珍珠母	mother-of-pearl (used in ornamentation and in TCM)
珍珠港	Pearl Harbor (Hawaii)
珍珠翡翠白玉湯	cabbage, rice and tofu soup
珍珠雞	guinea fowl
珍異	rare; precious and odd
珍禽奇獸	rare animals and birds
珍稀	rare; precious and uncommon
珍聞	oddity; news tidbits; strange and interesting item
珍藏	a collection of rare and valuable items; to collect (such items)
珍視	to place great importance on; to treasure
珍貴	precious
珍重	to treasure; to cherish; to value highly
珍饈	delicacy; dainties; rare foodstuff
珍饈美味	delicacy and fine taste (idiom); a wonderful treat
珍饈美饌	delicacy and fine taste (idiom); a wonderful treat
珒	a kind of jade
珓	pair of hemispherical objects used in divination
珔	(jade)
珖	(jade)
珙	(gem)
珙桐	dove tree (Davidia involucrata)
珙縣	Gong County or Gongxian, a county in Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
珚	a kind of jade
珛	quickly-deteriorating jade
珝	a kind of jade
珞	neck-ornament
珞巴	Lhoba ethnic group
珞巴族	Lhoba ethnic group
珞巴語	Lhoba, language of Lhoba ethnic group of southeast Tibet
珠	bead; pearl
珠三角	Pearl River Delta
珠光寶氣	bedecked with glittering jewels (idiom)
珠圓玉潤	lit. as round as pearls and as smooth as jade (idiom)
珠子	pearl; bead
珠寶	pearls; jewels; precious stones
珠山	Mount Everest (abbr. for 珠穆朗瑪峰|珠穆朗玛峰[Zhu1 mu4 lang3 ma3 Feng1])
珠山區	Zhushan, a district of Jingdezhen City 景德鎮市|景德镇市[Jing3 de2 zhen4 Shi4], Jiangxi
珠峰	Mount Everest (abbr. for 珠穆朗瑪峰|珠穆朗玛峰[Zhu1 mu4 lang3 ma3 Feng1])
珠崖	Zhuya, historic name for Hainan Island 海南島|海南岛[Hai3 nan2 Dao3]
珠暉區	Zhuhui, a district of Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
珠母	mother-of-pearl
珠江	Pearl River (Guangdong)
珠江三角洲	Pearl River Delta (PRD)
珠流	fluent with words; words flowing like pearl beads
珠流璧轉	lit. pearl flows, jade moves on (idiom); fig. the passage of time
珠海市	Zhuhai, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
珠澳	Zhuhai and Macau (abbr. for 珠海[Zhu1 hai3] + 澳門|澳门[Ao4 men2])
珠灰	pearl gray
珠玉	pearls and jades; jewels; clever remark
珠玉在側	gems at the side (idiom); flanked by genius
珠璣	(literary) pearl; gem
珠穆朗瑪	Mount Everest (from its Tibetan name, Chomolungma)
珠穆朗瑪峰	Mount Everest (from its Tibetan name, Chomolungma)
珠箔	curtain of pearls; screen of beads
珠算	calculation using abacus
珠聯璧合	string of pearl and jade (idiom); ideal combination; perfect pair
珠胎暗結	to get pregnant out of wedlock
珠茶	gunpowder tea, Chinese green tea whose leaves are each formed into a small pellet
珠頸斑鳩	(bird species of China) spotted dove (Spilopelia chinensis)
珣	(gem)
珣玗琪	type of ancient jade
珥	pearl or jade earring
珦	a kind of jade
珧	mother-of-pearl
珩	top gem of pendant from girdle
班	team; class; grade; (military) squad; work shift
班上	(in the) class
班主	leader of a theatrical troupe
班主任	teacher in charge of a class
班什	Binche (Belgian city)
班代	(Tw) class representative; class president
班伯利	Bunbury, coastal city in Western Australia
班伯里	Bunbury, coastal city in Western Australia
班克斯	(surname) Banks; Banksy (UK artist)
班克西	Banksy (British street artist)
班加羅爾	Bangalore, capital of southwest Indian state Karnataka 卡納塔克邦|卡纳塔克邦[Ka3 na4 ta3 ke4 bang1]
班務會	a routine meeting of a squad; team or class
班卓琴	(loanword) banjo
班吉	Bangui, capital of Central African Republic
班固	Ban Gu (32-92), Eastern Han dynasty historian, wrote the Dynastic History of Western Han 漢書|汉书
班圖斯坦	Bantustan
班基	Bangui, capital of Central African Republic (Tw)
班子	organized group; theatrical troupe
班導	(Tw) teacher in charge of a class; homeroom teacher
班導師	(Tw) teacher in charge of a class; homeroom teacher
班師	to withdraw troops from the front; to return in triumph
班底	(theater) (originally) non-leading actors; supporting cast; (now) key members of a production team (actors, directors, writers etc)
班戈縣	Baingoin, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
班房	jail
班會	class meeting (in schools)
班期	schedule (for flights, voyages etc)
班機	airliner; (regular) flight (CL:趟[tang4],次[ci4],班[ban1])
班檯	office desk
班次	grade; class number (in school); flight or run number
班珠爾	Banjul, capital of Gambia
班瑪縣	Banma, a county in Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 果洛藏族自治州[Guo3 luo4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
班禪	Panchen (Lama); abbr. for 班禪額爾德尼|班禅额尔德尼[Ban1 chan2 E2 er3 de2 ni2]
班禪喇嘛	Panchen Lama
班禪額爾德尼	Panchen Erdeni or Panchen Lama; abbr. to 班禪|班禅[Ban1 chan2]
班竹	Banjul, capital of Gambia (Tw)
班級	class (group of students); grade (in school)
班組	group or team (in factories etc)
班線	route (of a bus etc)
班花	the prettiest girl in the class
班草	the most handsome boy in the class
班超	Ban Chao (33-102), noted Han diplomat and military man
班車	regular bus (service)
班輩	seniority in the family; pecking order
班輩兒	seniority in the family; pecking order
班輪	regular passenger or cargo ship; regular steamship service
班達亞齊	Banda Aceh, capital of Aceh province of Indonesia in northwest Sumatra
班達海	Banda Sea, in the East Indian Archipelago
班長	class monitor; squad leader; team leader
班門弄斧	to display one's slight skill before an expert (idiom)
班雅明	Benjamin (name)
珮	girdle ornaments
珮林	Palin (name)
珵	fine jade; jade ornament
珶	white jade worn on belt
珷	inferior gem; a kind of jade
珹	a kind of jade; a kind of pearl
珺	beautiful jade
珽	scepter
現	to appear; present; now
現下	now; at this moment
現世	this life; to lose face; to be disgraced
現世報	karmic retribution within one's lifetime
現世寶	good-for-nothing; fool
現今	now; nowadays; modern
現付	to pay on the spot
現代	modern times; modern age; modern era
現代五項	modern pentathlon
現代人	modern man; Homo sapiens
現代化	modernization
現代史	modern history
現代形式	the modern form
現代性	modernity
現代新儒家	Modern New Confucianism
現代派	modernist faction; modernists
現代舞	modern dance
現代集團	Hyundai, the Korean corporation
現代音樂	modern music; contemporary music
現任	to occupy a post currently; current (president etc); incumbent
現值	present value
現做	to make (food) on the spot; freshly-made
現充	(slang) someone successful or fulfilled in real life (as opposed to online) (loanword from Japanese リア充 "riajuu")
現剝	(of fruit, prawns etc) peeled on the spot; Taiwan pr. [xian4bo1]
現勢	current situation
現在	now; at present; currently
現在分詞	present participle (in English grammar)
現在式	present tense
現場	the scene (of a crime, accident etc); (on) the spot; (at) the site
現場報道	on-the-spot report
現場投注	live betting
現場採訪	on-the-spot interview
現場會	on-the-spot meeting
現場會議	on-the-spot meeting
現場直播	on-the-spot live broadcast
現場視察	on-site inspection
現如今	nowadays; now
現存	extant; existent; in stock
現學現用	to immediately put into practice something one has just learned (idiom)
現實	reality; actuality; real; actual
現實主義	realism
現實情況	current state; current situation
現年	(a person's) current age
現形	to become visible; to appear; to manifest one's true nature
現役	(military) active duty
現成	ready-made; readily available
現成話	ready-made phrase; unhelpful comment
現房	finished apartment; ready apartment
現打	to make a fresh batch of sth (juice, pasta, spices etc); freshly made (or ground, squeezed, brewed etc)
現抓	to improvise
現時	current
現有	currently existing; currently available
現榨	to extract (juice, oil etc) on the spot; freshly squeezed
現款	cash
現況	the current situation
現炒現賣	lit. to fry and sell on the spot
現烤	freshly baked; freshly roasted
現狀	current situation
現眼	to embarrass oneself; to make a fool of oneself
現磨	freshly ground
現行	to be in effect; in force; current
現行犯	criminal caught red-handed
現象	phenomenon; appearance
現象學	phenomenology
現象級	phenomenal
現貨	merchandise or commodities available immediately after sale
現貨價	price of actuals
現身	to show oneself; to appear; (of a deity) to appear in the flesh
現身說法	to talk from one's personal experience; to use oneself as an example
現金	cash
現金周轉	cash flow
現金基礎	cash basis (accounting)
現金流	cash flow
現金流轉	cash flow
現金流轉表	cash flow statement
現金流量	cash flow
現金流量表	cash flow statement
現金牛	cash cow
現錢	cash
現階段	at the present stage
琀	gems or pearls formerly put into the mouth of a corpse
琁	beautiful jade; star
球	ball; sphere; globe
球友	(ball game) enthusiast (player); golf buddy (or tennis buddy etc)
球員	(ball sports) player; team member
球團	(Tw) (esp. baseball) professional sports club (as a business entity)
球場	stadium; sports ground; court
球場會館	clubhouse (golf)
球孢子菌病	Coccidioidomycosis
球季	season (of baseball, football etc)
球差	spherical aberration (optics)
球座	tee (golf)
球彈	ball (in sport, incl. billiards)
球形	spherical; ball-shaped
球感	ball sense; feel for the ball
球手	(ball sports) player
球拍	(tennis, badminton etc) racket; (table tennis) paddle; (cricket) bat
球星	sports star (ball sport)
球會	(HK) ball sports club (soccer, basketball etc)
球杆	club (golf); cue (billiards); also written 球桿|球杆[qiu2 gan1]
球柵陣列封裝	ball grid array (BGA), type of microchip package
球棍	(sport) club; bat
球棒	(baseball or cricket) bat; hockey stick
球檯	table (for games using balls)
球狀	sphere
球狀物	globe
球狀蛋白質	globular protein
球瓶	pin (ten-pin bowling)
球磨機	ball mill
球童	ball boy (tennis); caddie (golf)
球竿	cue (billiards); club (golf); stick (hockey)
球籍	(a nation's or an individual's) citizenship of the planet
球粒隕石	chondrite (type of meteorite)
球網	net (for ball games)
球腔菌	Mycosphaerella (genus of sac fungus, a plant pathogen)
球芽甘藍	Brussels sprouts (Brassica oleracea L. var. gemmifera)
球莖	(botany) corm
球菌	coccus (spherical bacteria pathogen)
球蛋白	globulin
球蟲	coccidia (biology)
球衣	jersey (for a ball sport)
球賽	(ball sports) game; match
球路	(sports) trajectory of the ball
球迷	fan (ball sports)
球道	fairway (golf); lane (ten-pin bowling)
球門	goalmouth (in soccer)
球閥	ball valve
球隊	sports team (basketball, soccer, football etc)
球面	sphere
球面幾何	spherical geometry
球面度	steradian (math.)
球鞋	athletic shoes
球類	ball sports
球館	(sports) arena
球體	spheroid
琅	jade-like stone; clean and white; tinkling of pendants
琅威理	Captain William M Lang (1843-), British adviser to the Qing north China navy 北洋水師|北洋水师 during the 1880s
琅嬛	mythical fairy realm
理	texture; grain (of wood); inner essence
理中客	rational, neutral, objective (abbr. for 理性、中立、客觀|理性、中立、客观[li3 xing4 , zhong1 li4 , ke4 guan1])
理事	member of council; (literary) to take care of matters
理事會	council
理事長	director general
理光	Ricoh, Japanese imaging and electronics company
理兒	reason
理則	principle; logic
理則學	logic
理化	physics and chemistry; (archaic) governance and education
理化因素	physical and chemical factors
理喻	to reason with sb
理塘縣	Litang, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
理學	School of Principle
理學家	scholar of the rationalist school of Neo-Confucianism 理學|理学[Li3 xue2]
理學碩士	M.Sc. (Master of Science degree)
理容院	hairdresser and beauty parlor; barbershop; massage parlor
理屈詞窮	lit. having presented a flawed argument, one has nothing further to add (idiom)
理工	science and engineering as academic subjects
理工大學	University of Science and Engineering
理工男	geek; techie
理工科	science and engineering as academic subjects
理念	idea; concept; philosophy
理性	reason; rationality; rational
理性主義	rationalism
理性知識	rational knowledge
理性與感性	Sense and Sensibility, novel by Jane Austen 珍·奧斯汀|珍·奥斯汀[Zhen1 · Ao4 si1 ting1]
理性認識	cognition; rational knowledge
理想	an ideal; a dream; ideal
理想主義	idealism
理想化	to idealize
理想國	Plato's "The Republic" (c. 380 BC)
理應	should; ought to
理所應當	it's only right and proper; it goes without saying
理所當然	as it should be by rights (idiom); proper and to be expected as a matter of course
理據	grounds; justification; logical basis
理智	reason; intellect; rationality
理會	to understand; to pay attention to; to take notice of
理查	(name) Richard
理查德	Richard (name)
理查森	Richardson (name)
理氣	(TCM) to rectify 氣|气[qi4]
理氣化痰	(TCM) to rectify 氣|气[qi4] and transform phlegm
理清	to disentangle (wiring etc); (fig.) to clarify (one's thoughts etc)
理由	reason; grounds; justification
理當	should; ought
理療	physiotherapy
理療師	physiotherapist
理監事	member of a board of directors
理直氣壯	in the right and self-confident (idiom); bold and confident with justice on one's side
理睬	to heed; to pay attention to
理神論	deism, theological theory of God who does not interfere in the Universe
理科	the sciences (as opposed to the humanities 文科[wen2 ke1])
理科學士	Bachelor of Science B.Sc.
理縣	Li County or Lixian, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
理虧	in the wrong
理解	to comprehend; to understand
理解力	ability to grasp ideas; understanding
理論	theory; to argue; to take notice of
理論基礎	theoretical foundation
理論家	theorist; theoretician
理論貢獻	theoretical contribution
理財	to manage wealth; to manage finances; money management
理財學	financial management (as a field of study)
理貨員	shop assistant; warehouse assistant
理賠	to settle a claim; claims settlement; payment of claims
理路	logical thinking
理雅各	James Legge (1815-1897), Scottish Protestant missionary in Qing China and translator of the Chinese classics into English
理順	to straighten out; to sort out; to organize
理頭	to have a haircut; to cut sb's hair
理髮	to get a haircut; to have one's hair done
理髮員	barber; hairdresser
理髮器	hair clippers
理髮師	barber; hairdresser
理髮店	barbershop; hairdresser's
理髮廳	(Tw) barbershop; hairdresser's
理髮院	barbershop; hairdresser's
琇	(jade)
琈	(literary) a kind of jade; (literary) jade color
琉	precious stone
琉特琴	(loanword) lute
琉球	Ryūkyū
琉球國	Ryūkyū kingdom 1429-1879 (on modern Okinawa)
琉球歌鴝	(bird species of China) Ryukyu robin (Larvivora komadori)
琉球海	Ryūkyū Sea
琉球王國	Ryūkyū kingdom 1429-1879 (on modern Okinawa)
琉球群島	Ryukyu Islands
琉球角鴞	(bird species of China) Ryukyu scops owl (Otus elegans)
琉璃	colored glaze used in traditional Chinese architecture
琉璃塔	glazed pagoda
琉璃廟	Liulimiao town in Beijing municipality
琉璃瓦	glazed roof tile
琉璃苣	borage (Borago officinalis)
琉璃藍鶲	(bird species of China) Zappey's flycatcher (Cyanoptila cumatilis)
琊	used in place names, notably 瑯琊山|琅琊山[Lang2 ya2 Shan1]
琍	(phonetic character used in transliteration of foreign names)
琖	wine cup
琚	ornamental gems for belt
琛	precious stone; gem
琠	gem used as ear plug; jade earrings
琢	used in 琢磨[zuo2 mo5]; Taiwan pr. [zhuo2]
琢磨	to carve and polish (jade); to polish and refine a literary work
琤	tinkling of gems
琤瑽	(literary) (onom.) tinkling of jade pendants; plashing of flowing water; musical notes of a zither
琥	used in 琥珀[hu3 po4]
琥珀	amber
琦	(literary) fine jade
琨	(jade)
琪	(literary) fine jade
琫	gem ornament of scabbard
琬	ensign of royalty
琭	(jade)
琮	jade tube with round hole and rectangular sides, used ceremonially in ancient times
琯	mus. instr.; to polish jade or gold
琰	gem; glitter of gems
琱	to engrave gems
琲	necklace
琳	gem
琳·戴維斯	Lynn E. Davis (1943-), US academic and arms control expert, undersecretary of state 1993-1997
琳瑯	glittering jewels
琳瑯滿目	(idiom) to be a feast for the eyes; to be a cornucopia of delights; to be diverse and abundant
琴	guqin 古琴[gu3 qin2] (a type of zither); musical instrument in general
琴劍飄零	floating between zither and sword (idiom); fig. wandering aimlessly with no tenured position
琴師	player of a stringed instrument
琴弓	bow (of a stringed instrument)
琴弦	string (of a stringed instrument)
琴手	player of a stringed instrument
琴斯托霍瓦	Częstochowa (city in Poland)
琴書	traditional art form, consisting of sung story telling with musical accompaniment
琴棋書畫	(idiom) the four arts of the Chinese scholar (guqin, Go, calligraphy and painting); (by extension) the accomplishments of a well-educated person
琴瑟	qin and se, two string instruments that play in perfect harmony
琴瑟不調	out of tune
琴瑟和鳴	in perfect harmony; in sync; lit. qin and se sing in harmony
琴通寧	(Tw) gin and tonic
琴通尼	(Tw) gin and tonic
琴酒	gin (Taiwan variant of 金酒[jin1 jiu3])
琴錘	mallet; drumstick
琴鍵	a piano key
琴鳥	lyrebird
琵嘴鴨	(bird species of China) northern shoveler (Spatula clypeata)
琵琶	pipa, Chinese lute, with 4 strings, a large pear-shaped body and a fretted fingerboard
琵琶行	Song of the Pipa Player, long poem by Tang poet Bai Juyi 白居易[Bai2 Ju1 yi4]
琵琶骨	(old) scapula
琵琶魚	anglerfish
琵鷺	spoonbill (wading bird of the family Threskiornithidae)
琶洲	Pazhou district in Guangzhou, Guangdong
琶音	(music) arpeggio
琺	used in 琺瑯|珐琅[fa4 lang2]
琺瑯	enamel; enamelware
琺瑯質	(old) tooth enamel (still in use in Taiwan)
琿	(fine jade)
琿春市	Hunchun, a county-level city in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
瑀	(chalcedony)
瑁	(jade)
瑂	(stone which resembles jade)
瑃	(a kind of jade)
瑄	ornamental piece of jade
瑋	(reddish jade); precious; rare
瑏	(jade)
瑑	engraved lines
瑔	jade; shell
瑕	blemish; flaw in jade
瑕不掩瑜	lit. a blemish does not obscure jade's luster
瑕玷	blemish; flaw
瑕疵	blemish; flaw; defect
瑗	large jade ring
瑙	used in 瑪瑙|玛瑙[ma3 nao3]
瑙蒙短尾鶥	(bird species of China) Naung Mung scimitar babbler (Napothera naungmungensis)
瑙魯	Nauru, island country in the southwestern Pacific
瑚	used in 珊瑚[shan1 hu2]
瑛	(literary) translucent stone similar to jade
瑜	excellence; luster of gems
瑜伽	(loanword) yoga
瑜伽墊	yoga mat
瑜伽褲	yoga pants
瑞	lucky; auspicious; propitious
瑞亞	Rhea (Titaness of Greek mythology)
瑞典	Sweden
瑞典人	Swede
瑞典語	Swedish (language)
瑞利準則	Rayleigh criterion (optics)
瑞士	Switzerland
瑞士人	Swiss (person)
瑞士捲	Swiss roll
瑞士法郎	Swiss franc (currency)
瑞士軍刀	Swiss Army knife
瑞安市	Rui'an, a county-level city in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
瑞幸咖啡	Luckin Coffee, chain of coffee shops founded in Beijing in 2017
瑞德西韋	remdesivir (antiviral medication) (loanword)
瑞昌市	Ruichang, a county-level city in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
瑞朗	Swiss franc
瑞氏染料	Wright's stain (used in studying blood)
瑞氏染色	Wright's stain (used in studying blood)
瑞氣	propitious vapours
瑞波幣	Ripple (digital currency)
瑞爾	riel (Cambodian currency)
瑞獅	Rui Shi, Auspicious Lions of Chinese mythology
瑞獸	auspicious animal (such as the dragon)
瑞色	lovely color
瑞薩	Renesas Electronics (Japanese microchip company)
瑞金市	Ruijin, a county-level city in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
瑞雪	timely snow
瑞香	winter daphne (Daphne odora)
瑞麗市	Ruili, a county-level city in Dehong Dai and Jingpo Autonomous Prefecture 德宏傣族景頗族自治州|德宏傣族景颇族自治州[De2 hong2 Dai3 zu2 Jing3 po1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
瑟	a type of standing harp, smaller than konghou 箜篌, with 5-25 strings
瑟瑟	trembling; rustling
瑟瑟發抖	to shiver
瑟索	to shiver; to tremble
瑟縮	to curl up shivering (from cold); timid and trembling (in fear)
瑢	used in 瑽瑢|𪻐瑢[cong1 rong2]
瑣	fragmentary; trifling
瑣事	trifle
瑣屑	trivial matters; petty things
瑣碎	trifling; trivial; tedious
瑣細	trivial
瑣羅亞斯德	Zoroaster, Zarathustra or Zarathushtra (c. 600 BC), Persian prophet and founder of Zoroastrianism
瑣羅亞斯德教	Zoroastrianism
瑣聞	news items
瑣記	fragmentary recollections; miscellaneous notes
瑤	jade; precious stone; mother-of-pearl
瑤之圃	jade garden of celestial ruler; paradise
瑤族	Yao ethnic group
瑤池	the Jade lake on Mount Kunlun, residence of Xi Wangmu 西王母
瑤海區	Yaohai, a district of Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
瑧	(literary) a kind of jade; Taiwan pr. [jin1]
瑨	(literary) jade-like stone
瑩	luster of gems
瑪	used in 瑪瑙|玛瑙[ma3 nao3]
瑪仁糖	traditional Xinjiang sweet walnut cake
瑪俐歐	Mario (Nintendo video game character)
瑪克辛	Maxine (name)
瑪利亞	Mary (biblical name)
瑪卡	maca (Lepidium meyenii)
瑪多縣	Madoi, a county in Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 果洛藏族自治州[Guo3 luo4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
瑪奇朵	macchiato (loanword); latte macchiato (coffee)
瑪尼	Mani (god)
瑪律	Malé, capital of Maldives (Tw)
瑪德琳	madeleine (French cake)
瑪拉基亞	Malachi
瑪拉基書	Book of Malachi
瑪拿西	Manasseh (son of Hezekiah)
瑪曲縣	Maqu, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
瑪格麗特	margarita (cocktail)
瑪沁縣	Maqên, a county in Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 果洛藏族自治州[Guo3 luo4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
瑪瑙	cornelian (mineral); agate
瑪瑙貝	cowrie
瑪竇	Matthew; St Matthew the evangelist
瑪竇福音	Gospel according to St Matthew
瑪納斯	Manas, hero of Kyrghiz epic saga
瑪納斯河	Manas River, Xinjiang
瑪納斯縣	Manas, a county in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
瑪芬	(loanword) muffin
瑪莎拉	(loanword) masala
瑪莎拉蒂	Maserati
瑪迪達	Matilda (name)
瑪雅	Maya (civilization)
瑪雅人	Maya peoples
瑪麗	Mary or Marie (name); Mali
瑪麗亞	Maria (name)
瑪麗婭	Maria (name); St Mary
瑪麗蓮·夢露	Marilyn Monroe (1926-1962), US actress
瑪麗蘇	(slang) Mary Sue (character type in fiction)
瑭	(jade)
瑯	used in 瑯琊|琅琊[Lang2 ya2]
瑯琊區	Langya, a district of Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
瑯琊山	Mt Langya in eastern Anhui Province
瑰	(semiprecious stone); extraordinary
瑰偉	ornate (style); magnificent
瑰奇	magnificent; precious
瑰寶	a treasure; a rare and valuable thing
瑰瑋	ornate (style); magnificent
瑰異	marvelous; magnificent
瑰麗	elegant; magnificent; exceptionally beautiful
瑱	(literary) jade pendants attached to an official hat and hanging beside each ear, symbolizing refusal to listen to malicious talk
瑲	(onom.) tinkling of gems
瑳	luster of gems
瑽	used in 瑽瑢|𪻐瑢[cong1 rong2] and 琤瑽|琤𪻐[cheng1 cong1]
瑽瑢	(literary) (onom.) tinkling of jade pendants
瑾	brilliancy (of gems)
瑿	a black stone like jade; jet
璀	luster of gems
璀璀	bright and clear
璀璨	bright; resplendent
璀璨奪目	dazzling (idiom)
璀錯	many and varied
璁	stone similar to jade
璃	colored glaze; glass
璅	fragmentary; trifling
璆	(gem); to tinkle
璇	(jade)
璈	(mus. instr.)
璉	sacrificial vessel used for grain offerings; also pr. [lian2]
璊	(gem); rouge
璋	jade tablet used in ceremonies, shaped like the left or right half of a "gui" 圭[gui1], also given to male infants to play with
璐	beautiful jade
璘	luster of gem
璚	half-circle jade ring
璜	semicircular jade ornament
璞	unpolished gem
璟	luster of gem
璠	(gem)
璡	jade-like stone
璣	(literary) baroque pearl; irregular pearl
璥	(gem)
璦	fine quality jade
璦琿條約	Treaty of Aigun, 1858 unequal treaty forced on Qing China by Tsarist Russia
璧	jade annulus
璧山區	Bishan, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
璧玉	jade disk with a hole in the center
璧謝	decline (a gift) with thanks
璧還	return (a borrowed object) with thanks; decline (a gift) with thanks
璨	gem; luster of gem
璨玉	lustrous jade
璨璨	very bright
璨美	resplendent
璩	(jade ring)
璪	pendant of pearls on coronet
璫	(literary) pendant ornament; earring; eunuch
璬	jade pendant; jade ornament
璮	a kind of jade
璯	jade ornament in the seams of cap
環	ring; hoop; loop
環住	to embrace
環保	environmental protection; environmentally friendly
環保主義	environmentalism
環保主義者	environmentalist
環保型	environmental; environmentally friendly
環保局	environment protection office
環保廳	(provincial) department of environmental protection
環保科學	environmental science
環保筷	reusable chopsticks (Tw)
環保鬥士	an environmental activist; a fighter for environmental protection
環創	eye-catching décor for young children (in classrooms, libraries etc) (posters, mobiles, murals etc) (abbr. for 環境創設|环境创设[huan2 jing4 chuang4 she4])
環化	to cyclize; cyclization (chemistry)
環圍	to form a ring around
環城	encircling the city (of walls, ring road etc); around the city
環境	environment; circumstances; surroundings
環境保護	environmental protection
環境創設	design of a learning environment for young children, incorporating artwork designed to appeal to them
環境因素	environmental factor
環境影響	environmental impact
環境影響評估	environmental impact assessment EIA; abbr. to 環評|环评
環境損害	environmental damage
環境污染	environmental pollution
環境溫度	environmental temperature
環境行動主義	environmentalism; environmental activism
環境衛生	environmental sanitation; abbr. to 環衛|环卫[huan2 wei4]
環太平洋	Pacific Rim
環太平洋地震帶	Ring of Fire (circum-Pacific seismic belt)
環太平洋火山帶	Ring of Fire (circum-Pacific seismic belt)
環島	traffic circle; rotary; roundabout; to travel around an island
環帶	clitellum (worm anatomy)
環幕	360° cinema screen
環形	ring-shaped; (math.) annulus
環形公路	ring road; beltway
環形山	crater; ring-shaped mountain
環形結構	ring configuration
環形路	circular road; circuit
環戊烯	cyclopentene C5H8 (ring of five carbon atoms)
環抱	to encircle; to surround; to embrace
環極渦旋	circumpolar vortex
環比	(statistics) period on period (i.e. "month on month" or "quarter on quarter" etc, depending on the context)
環氧乙烷	ethylene oxide
環氧樹脂	epoxy resin (chemistry)
環江毛南族自治縣	Huanjiang Maonan Autonomous County, in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
環法	Tour de France cycle race; abbr. for 環法自行車賽|环法自行车赛
環法自行車賽	Tour de France cycle race
環渤海灣地區	Bohai Economic Rim (economic region including Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei, Liaoning and Shandong)
環烴	cyclic hydrocarbon (i.e. involving benzene ring)
環烷烴	cycloalkane
環狀	annular; toroidal; loop-shaped
環狀列石	circular standing stones
環球	around the world; worldwide
環球化	globalization
環球唱片	Universal Records
環球定位系統	GPS (Global Positioning System)
環球旅行	journey around the world
環球時報	Global Times (weekly digest of international news from People's Daily 人民日報|人民日报[Ren2 min2 Ri4 bao4])
環球音樂集團	Universal Music Group
環環相扣	closely linked with one another; interlocked; to interrelate
環磷酰胺	cyclophosphamide (medication)
環礁	atoll
環秀山莊	Mountain Villa with Embracing Beauty in Suzhou, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
環箍	a hoop
環節	(zoology) segment (of the body of a worm, centipede etc)
環節動物	annelid (worm)
環節動物門	Annelidan, the phylum of annelid worms
環線	ring road; circle line (e.g. rail or subway)
環縣	Huan County or Huanxian, a county in Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
環繞	to surround; to circle; to revolve around
環翠區	Huancui, a district of Weihai City 威海市[Wei1 hai3 Shi4], Shandong
環肌	circular muscle
環衛	public cleanliness; (urban) sanitation; environmental sanitation
環衛工	sanitation worker
環衛工人	sanitation worker
環襯	endpaper
環視	to look around (a room etc); (fig.) to take a comprehensive look at
環評	environmental impact assessment (EIA); abbr. for 環境影響評估|环境影响评估
環路	ring road; closed circuit; loop
環遊	to travel around (the world, a country etc)
環面	ring surface; annulus; torus (math.)
環頸山鷓鴣	(bird species of China) hill partridge (Arborophila torqueola)
環頸鴴	(bird species of China) Kentish plover (Anarhynchus alexandrinus)
環顧	to look around; to survey
環顧四周	to look around
環香	incense coil
璱	bright (of jade)
璲	pendant girdle-ornaments
璵	ornamental jade
璸	(pearl)
璺	a crack (in porcelain, glassware etc)
璽	ruler's seal
璽印	seal (esp. of ruler)
瓀	opaque; white quartz
瓁	uncarved jade
瓅	brilliance (pearls)
瓊	short name for Hainan 海南[Hai3 nan2]
瓊中	Qiongzhong Li and Miao autonomous county, Hainan
瓊中縣	Qiongzhong Li and Miao autonomous county, Hainan
瓊中黎族苗族自治縣	Qiongzhong Li and Miao autonomous county, Hainan
瓊山區	Qiongshan, a district of Haikou City 海口市[Hai3 kou3 Shi4], Hainan
瓊崖	Qiongya, historic name for Hainan Island 海南島|海南岛[Hai3 nan2 Dao3]
瓊州	Qiongzhou, historic name for Hainan Island 海南島|海南岛[Hai3 nan2 Dao3]
瓊州海峽	Qiongzhou Strait (between Hainan Island and mainland China)
瓊斯	Jones (name)
瓊斯頓	Johnston (name)
瓊樓玉宇	bejeweled jade palace (idiom); sumptuous dwelling
瓊海	Qionghai City, Hainan
瓊海市	Qionghai City, Hainan
瓊漿玉液	bejeweled nectar (idiom); ambrosia of the immortals; superb liquor
瓊瑛	jade-like stone
瓊瑤	Chiung Yao (1938–2024), Taiwanese writer
瓊筵	banquet; elaborate feast
瓊結縣	Qonggyai, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
瓊脂	agar
瓏	tinkling of gem-pendants
瓔	necklace
瓔珞	jade or pearl necklace
瓖	ornaments
瓘	jade used for making goblets
瓚	libation cup
瓛	(old) jade tablet or scepter held by a duke at ceremonies
瓜	melon; gourd; squash; (slang) a piece of gossip
瓜代	a changeover of personnel; a new shift
瓜分	to partition; to divide up
瓜地馬拉	(Tw) Guatemala
瓜娃子	(dialect) fool; a silly
瓜子	melon seed
瓜子臉	oval face
瓜州縣	Guazhou, a county in Jiuquan City 酒泉市[Jiu3 quan2 Shi4], Gansu
瓜德羅普	Guadeloupe
瓜拉丁加奴	Kuala Terengganu, capital of Terengganu state, Malaysia
瓜拿納	guarana (Paullinia cupana)
瓜果	fruit (plural sense); melons and fruit
瓜無滾圓，人無十全	no gourd is perfectly round, just as no man is perfect (proverb)
瓜熟蒂落	when the melon is ripe, it falls (idiom); problems sort themselves out in the fullness of time
瓜田	melon field
瓜田不納履，李下不整冠	lit. don't tie your shoelaces in a melon patch, and don't adjust your hat under a plum tree (idiom)
瓜田李下	abbr. for 瓜田不納履，李下不整冠|瓜田不纳履，李下不整冠[gua1 tian2 bu4 na4 lu:3 , li3 xia4 bu4 zheng3 guan1]
瓜皮帽	Chinese skullcap resembling the skin of half a watermelon
瓜臍	the umbilicus of a melon
瓜菜	fruit and vegetables
瓜葛	connection; association; involvement
瓜蒂	pedicel and calyx of muskmelon (used in TCM)
瓜農	melon farmer
瓜達拉哈拉	Guadalajara
瓜達拉馬	Sierra de Guadarrama (mountain range across Iberia, passing north of Madrid)
瓜達拉馬山	Sierra de Guadarrama (mountain range across Iberia, passing north of Madrid)
瓜達爾	Gwadar, free trade port city in Pakistani province of Baluchistan
瓜達爾卡納爾島	Guadalcanal, the largest island in Solomon Islands
瓜達爾卡納爾島戰役	Battle of Guadalcanal (August 1942 – February 1943), a pivotal campaign in the Pacific Theater of World War II
瓜達爾港	Gwadar Port on Arabian Sea in Pakistani province of Baluchistan
瓞	(literary) small melon
瓠	gourd
瓠瓜	bottle gourd
瓢	dipper; ladle
瓢潑	(of rain) pouring
瓢潑大雨	downpour (idiom)
瓢潑而下	(of rain) to fall heavily
瓢羹	(dialect) spoon
瓢蟲	ladybug; ladybird
瓣	petal; segment; clove (of garlic)
瓣胃	omasum (third compartment of a ruminant's stomach)
瓣膜	valve (biological)
瓣鰓綱	Lamellibranchia; class of bivalves
瓤	pulp (of fruit); sth inside a covering; bad
瓦	roof tile; abbr. for 瓦特[wa3 te4]
瓦亮	shiny; very bright
瓦利	Váli (son of Odin)
瓦利斯和富圖納	Wallis and Futuna (French island collectivity in the South Pacific)
瓦剌	Oirat Mongols (alliance of tribes of Western Mongolia) (Ming Dynasty term)
瓦加杜古	Ouagadougou, capital of Burkina Faso
瓦努阿圖	Vanuatu, country in the southwestern Pacific Ocean
瓦勒他	Valletta, capital of Malta (Tw)
瓦匠	bricklayer; tiler
瓦哈比教派	Wahhabism (a conservative sect of Islam)
瓦器	pottery
瓦城	another name for Mandalay 曼德勒, Myanmar's second city
瓦工	tiling; bricklaying; plastering
瓦德瑟	Vadsø (city in Finnmark, Norway)
瓦德西	Waldersee (name)
瓦房	tile-roofed house
瓦房店市	Wafangdian, a county-level city in Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
瓦斯	gas (loanword)
瓦杜茲	Vaduz, capital of Liechtenstein
瓦楞	rows of tiles on a roof; corrugated
瓦楞紙	corrugated fiberboard; corrugated cardboard
瓦爾基里	valkyrie
瓦爾德	Vardø (city in Finnmark, Norway)
瓦爾特	Walter
瓦爾納	Varna (city in Bulgaria)
瓦爾達克	Wardak (Afghan province)
瓦爾達克省	Wardak (Afghan province)
瓦片	tile
瓦特	(loanword) watt
瓦當	eaves-tile
瓦硯	ink stone or ink slab made from an antique palace tile
瓦礫	rubble; debris
瓦礫堆	pile of rubble; debris
瓦罕走廊	Wakhan Corridor, panhandle in the northeast of Afghanistan sharing a border with China at its eastern end
瓦良格	Varyag, former Soviet aircraft carrier purchased by China and renamed 遼寧號|辽宁号[Liao2 ning2 Hao4]
瓦良格人	Varangian (medieval term for Viking)
瓦萊塔	Valletta, capital of Malta
瓦薩比	(loanword) wasabi
瓦藍	(usu. of the sky) azure; bright blue
瓦西里	(name) Vasily; Vasiliy
瓦西里耶維奇	Vasilievich (name)
瓦解	to collapse; to disintegrate; to crumble; to disrupt; to break up
瓦解冰泮	complete disintegration
瓦赫基爾河	Vakhsh river (upper reaches of Amu Darya)
瓦都茲	Vaduz, capital of Liechtenstein (Tw)
瓦里斯	(name) Wallis; John Wallis (1616–1703), English mathematician
瓦隆	Walloon, inhabitant of Southern French-speaking area of Belgium
瓧	(old) contracted variant of 十瓦[shi2 wa3]
瓩	(old) contracted variant of 千瓦[qian1 wa3]
瓬	potter; ceramicist
瓮	earthen jar; urn
瓰	(old) contracted variant of 分瓦[fen1 wa3]
瓱	(old) contracted variant of 毫瓦[hao2 wa3]
瓴	concave channels of tiling
瓵	earthen jar
瓶	bottle; vase; pitcher
瓶塞	bottle cork; bottle stopper
瓶塞鑽	corkscrew
瓶子	bottle
瓶盂	jar; flask; vase
瓶胚	preform
瓶膽	the vacuum bottle within the outer case of a thermos
瓶蓋	bottle cap
瓶裝	bottled
瓶裝水	bottled water
瓶領	bottle collar
瓶頸	neck of a bottle; (fig.) bottleneck; problem that impedes progress
瓶鼻海豚	bottle-nosed dolphin (Tursiops truncatus)
瓷	chinaware; porcelain; china
瓷器	chinaware; porcelain
瓷娃娃	porcelain doll; (fig.) person with osteogenesis imperfecta
瓷實	(dialect) firm; robust
瓷瓶	porcelain bottle
瓷碗	porcelain bowl
瓷磚	ceramic tile
瓷釉	porcelain glaze
瓸	(old) contracted variant of 百瓦[bai3 wa3]
瓻	large wine jar
瓼	(old) contracted form of 釐瓦|厘瓦[li2 wa3]
瓿	a kind of vase (old)
甀	vase with a small mouth
甃	brickwork of well
甄	to distinguish; to evaluate
甄別	to screen; to discriminate; to reexamine a case
甄別考試	to screen; to grade by examination; screening
甄審	to screen and select (candidates etc)
甄拔	to select
甄汰	to eliminate by examination
甄用	to employ by examination
甄綜	to comprehensively appraise and select
甄藻	to discern talent
甄訓	(Tw) to identify (talented individuals) and give them training
甄試	selection test; admission exam
甄選	to select; to pick
甄錄	to employ by an examination
甄陶	to make sth of clay; to appraise people of talent
甇	earthen jar with long neck
甋	a jar without ears
甌	old name for Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 shi4] in Zhejiang 浙江[Zhe4 jiang1]
甌海區	Ouhai, a district of Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
甍	rafters supporting tiles; ridge of a roof
甏	a squat jar for holding wine, sauces etc
甑	cauldron; rice pot
甒	vase; jar
甓	glazed tile
甔	big jar
甕	pottery container for water, wine etc
甕中之鱉	lit. like a turtle in a jar; to be trapped (idiom)
甕中捉鱉	(lit.) to catch a turtle in a jar (idiom)
甕城	enceinte of a city gate; barbican entrance to a city
甕安縣	Weng'an, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
甕棺	funerary urn
甕棺葬	urn burial
甕聲甕氣	to speak in a low muffled voice (idiom)
甗	earthenware vessel
甘	(bound form) sweet; pleasant (contrasted with 苦[ku3]: bitter, unpleasant)
甘丹寺	Ganden monastery, Tibetan: dGa' ldan rNam rgyal gling, Dagzê county 達孜縣|达孜县[Da2 zi1 xian4], Lhasa, Tibet
甘之如飴	lit. as sweet as syrup (idiom, from Book of Songs); to endure hardship gladly
甘井子區	Ganjingzi, a district of Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
甘南縣	Gannan, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
甘南藏族自治州	Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
甘味	sweetness; sweet taste
甘味劑	sweetener
甘味料	sweetener
甘地	(Mahatma) Gandhi
甘孜縣	Garzê, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
甘孜藏族自治州	Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
甘州區	Ganzhou, a district of Zhangye City 張掖市|张掖市[Zhang1 ye4 Shi4], Gansu
甘巴里	Ibrahim Gambari (1944–), Nigerian diplomat and academic
甘德縣	Gadê, a county in Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 果洛藏族自治州[Guo3 luo4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
甘心	to be willing to; to resign oneself to
甘心情願	willingly and gladly (idiom)
甘托克	Gantok, capital of Sikkim, India
甘拜下風	to step down gracefully (humble expression); to concede defeat
甘於	to be willing to; to be ready to; to be content with
甘榜	kampong (loanword); also pr. gānbōng, imitating Malay
甘比亞	Gambia (Tw)
甘氨酸	glycine (Gly), an amino acid
甘汞	calomel or mercurous chloride (Hg2Cl2)
甘油	glycerine; glycerol
甘油三脂	triglyceride
甘油三酯	triglyceride
甘油栓劑	glycerine suppository
甘油醛	glyceraldehyde (CH2O)3
甘泉縣	Ganquan, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
甘洛縣	Ganluo, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
甘甜	sweet
甘糖醇	mannitol C6H14O6, a sugar alcohol
甘納許	(loanword) ganache
甘納豆	amanattō, traditional Japanese sweets made from azuki or other beans
甘肅柳鶯	(bird species of China) Gansu leaf warbler (Phylloscopus kansuensis)
甘肅省	Gansu Province, capital Lanzhou 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4] (short name 甘[Gan1] or 隴|陇[Long3])
甘苦	good times and hardships; joys and tribulations
甘草	licorice root
甘菊	chamomile
甘蔗	sugar cane
甘蔗渣	bagasse
甘薯	sweet potato; Ipomoea batatas
甘藍	cabbage; Chinese broccoli; gai larn
甘藍型油菜	oilseed rape (Brassica napus)
甘藍菜	cabbage
甘谷縣	Gangu, a county in Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
甘迺迪	Kennedy (name) (Tw)
甘露糖醇	mannitol C6H14O6, a sugar alcohol
甘露醇	mannitol C6H14O6, a sugar alcohol
甘願	willingly
甙	(dated) glycoside (old term for 糖苷[tang2 gan1])
甚	excessive; undue; to exceed; to be more than; very; extremely
甚且	even; going as far as to; so much so that
甚囂塵上	clamor raises the dust (idiom); a tremendous clamor
甚平	jinbei, traditional Japanese two-piece clothing worn in the summer
甚微	very small; very little; scant
甚感詫異	amazed; astonished; deeply troubled
甚或	so much so that; to the extent that; even
甚是	(literary) very; extremely
甚濃	strong (smell); thick (fog)
甚為	very; extremely
甚而	even; so much so that
甚而至於	even; so much so that
甚至	even; so much so that
甚至於	so much (that); even (to the extent that)
甚鉅	(usu. of an adverse effect) immense; considerable; substantial
甚高頻	very high frequency (VHF)
甜	sweet; (fig.) pleasant; endearing; lovely
甜不辣	deep-fried fish cake popular in Taiwan (loanword from Japanese "tempura")
甜味	sweetness
甜味劑	sweetener (food additive)
甜品	dessert
甜妹	(coll.) girl with a sweet, cute demeanor
甜得發膩	lovey-dovey; cloying; sugary
甜心	delighted to oblige; sweetheart
甜橙	sweet orange (Citrus sinensis)
甜津津	sweet and delicious
甜潤	sweet and mellow; fresh and moist (air)
甜瓜	muskmelon
甜甜圈	doughnut
甜睡	to sleep soundly
甜稚	sweet and innocent
甜筒	ice-cream cone
甜美	sweet; pleasant; happy
甜膩	sweet and unctuous; (fig.) overly sentimental
甜菊	Stevia, South American sunflower genus
甜菊糖	stevioside
甜菊糖苷	stevioside
甜菊苷	stevioside
甜菜	(sugar) beet; (US) beet; (UK) beetroot
甜蜜	sweet; happy
甜蜜素	sodium cyclamate
甜蜜蜜	very sweet
甜言	sweet words; fine talk
甜言蜜語	(idiom) sweet words; sweet talk; cajolery
甜豆	sugar snap pea
甜酒	sweet liquor
甜酒釀	fermented rice
甜酸	sweet and sour
甜酸肉	sweet and sour pork
甜頭	sweet taste (of power, success etc); benefit
甜食	dessert; sweet
甜高粱	sweet sorghum
甜點	dessert
甝	white tiger
生	to grow; to give birth; to produce; to be born; to arise; to occur
生下	to give birth to
生不逢時	born at the wrong time (idiom); unlucky (esp. to complain about one's fate)
生事	to make trouble
生人	stranger; living person; to give birth
生來	from birth; by one's nature
生僻	unfamiliar; rarely seen
生光	to emit light
生兒育女	to bear and raise children
生冷	(of food) raw or cold
生冷字	obscure or archaic character
生出	to give birth; to grow (whiskers etc); to generate
生分	estranged
生前	(of a deceased) during one's life; while living
生前預囑	living will
生力軍	fresh troops; (fig.) lifeblood; new force
生力麵	instant noodles (old)
生動	(of descriptions, writing etc) vivid; lively
生化	biochemistry
生化學	biochemistry
生化武器	biological weapon
生化需氧量	(environmental science) biochemical oxygen demand; BOD
生卒年	dates of birth and death (of historical figure)
生卒年月	dates of birth and death (of historical figure)
生厭	to disgust; to pall; fed up
生吃	to eat raw
生吞活剝	to swallow whole (idiom); fig. to apply uncritically
生命	life (as the characteristic of living beings)
生命不息，戰鬥不止	while there is life, the fight continues (idiom); to fight to the last
生命力	vitality
生命危險	risk to one's life
生命在於運動	life is motion (popular saying with many possible interpretations)
生命多樣性	biodiversity
生命帶	(neologism) (used in road safety campaigns) "life-saving belt", i.e. seat belt
生命科學	life sciences
生命線	lifeline
生命週期	life cycle
生命體徵	vital signs
生員	scholar preparing for imperial examinations (in former times)
生啤	draft beer; unpasteurized beer
生啤酒	draft beer; unpasteurized beer
生土	(agr.) immature soil; virgin soil
生境	habitat
生奶油	cream; whipped cream
生子	to give birth to a child or children
生字	new character (in textbook)
生存	to exist; to survive
生存環境	habitat; living environment
生存農業	subsistence farming; subsistence agriculture
生孩子	to give birth to a baby
生就	to be born with; to be gifted with
生平	life (a person's whole life); in one's entire life
生平事跡	lifetime achievements
生平簡介	biographic sketch
生怕	to fear; afraid; extremely nervous
生性	natural disposition
生息	to inhabit; to live (in a habitat)
生悶氣	to seethe; to sulk; to be pissed off (vulgar)
生意	life force; vitality
生意經	knack of doing business; business sense
生意興隆	thriving and prosperous business or trade
生態	ecology (the study of interactions between organisms and their environment)
生態位	ecological niche
生態友好型	eco-friendly
生態圈	ecosphere
生態城市	sustainable city
生態孤島	insularization (as a threat to biodiversity)
生態學	ecology
生態學家	ecologist
生態旅遊	ecotourism
生態環境	ecosystem; natural environment
生態環境游	ecotourism
生態系	(Tw) ecosystem
生態系統	ecosystem
生態足跡	ecological footprint
生成	to generate; to produce; to form; to be formed; to come into being
生成樹	spanning tree (in graph theory)
生手	novice; new hand; sb new to a job
生技	biotechnology; abbr. for 生物技術|生物技术; (Tw) abbr. for 生物科技
生技醫藥	biopharmaceutical; drug produced by biotechnology
生抽	light soy sauce
生拉硬拽	to drag sb along against his will; to draw a forced analogy
生擒	to capture alive
生效	(of a law, contract, agreement, ban etc) to come into force; to go into effect; to become operative
生教	(Tw) student conduct and life-guidance group (a unit within the student affairs office 學務處|学务处[xue2 wu4 chu4]) (abbr. for 生活教育組|生活教育组[sheng1 huo2 jiao4 yu4 zu3])
生於憂患，死於安樂	to thrive in calamity and perish in soft living (idiom)
生日	birthday
生日卡	birthday card
生日快樂	Happy birthday
生日禮物	birthday gift
生日賀卡	birthday card
生有權	birthright
生根	to take root
生榮死哀	to be respected in life and lamented in death (idiom)
生機	opportunity to live; hope of success; vigor; vitality
生機勃勃	(idiom) vibrant; full of vitality
生機盎然	full of life; exuberant
生死	life or death
生死存亡	matter of life and death
生死搭檔	inseparable partner
生死攸關	matter of life and death
生死有命	life and death are ruled by fate (idiom)
生死肉骨	lit. the dead returning to life; a miracle (idiom)
生死關頭	the critical moment; life and death crisis
生殖	to reproduce; to flourish
生殖力	fertility
生殖器	reproductive organ; genitals
生殖器官	reproductive organ
生殖系統	reproductive system
生殖細胞	germ cell; reproductive cell
生殖腺	gonad; reproductive gland
生殖輪	svadhisthana, the navel or libido chakra, residing in the genitals
生殖隔離	(biology) reproductive isolation
生殺予奪	(lit.) to spare or to kill, to give or take away (idiom)
生殺大權	life-and-death power; ultimate power
生母	natural mother; birth mother
生氣	to get angry; to be furious; vitality; liveliness
生氣勃勃	(idiom) vibrant; full of vitality
生氣蓬勃	vibrant; full of vitality
生水	unboiled water
生津	(TCM) to promote the secretion of saliva
生活	to live; life; livelihood
生活作風	behavior; conduct
生活垃圾	domestic garbage
生活必需品	life's necessities
生活教育	(Tw) life skills education; education in practical, emotional, social and moral aspects of daily living
生活方式	way of life; lifestyle
生活水平	living standards
生活污水	domestic wastewater; domestic sewage
生活美學	appreciation of the finer things in life
生活設施	living facilities
生活費	cost of living; living expenses; alimony
生活資料	consumer goods; means of livelihood; means of subsistence
生活館	living museum
生涯	career; life (way in which sb lives); period of one's life
生源	supply of students; source of students
生滅	life and death
生漆	raw lacquer
生澀	unripe; tart; not fully proficient
生火	to make a fire; to light a fire
生炒熱賣	to sell while it's still hot (idiom); fig. in a great hurry to publish or sell (and no time to improve the product)
生無可戀	(Internet slang) nothing left to live for
生煎	shengjian, a pan-fried bun filled with meat and juices, a Shanghai specialty
生煎包	pan-fried dumpling
生熱	to generate heat
生父	biological father
生父母	biological parents; natural parents
生物	organism; living creature; life form; (attributive) biological; bio-
生物傳感器	biosensor
生物分析法	bioanalytical method
生物劑量儀	biological dosimeter
生物力學	biomechanics
生物化學	biochemistry
生物化學家	biochemist
生物反應器	bioreactor
生物圈	biosphere
生物多元化	biodiversity
生物多樣性	biodiversity
生物大滅絕	great extinction of species
生物媒介	biological vector
生物學	biology
生物學家	biologist
生物專一性	biospecificity
生物工程	bioengineering; genetic engineering
生物工程學	biotechnology
生物彈藥	biological ammunition
生物性	biological
生物恐怖主義	bioterrorism
生物戰	germ warfare; biological warfare
生物戰劑	biological agent; biological warfare agent
生物技術	biotechnology; abbr. to 生技
生物晶片	biochip
生物材料	bio-materials
生物柴油	biodiesel
生物武器	biological weapon
生物氣體	bio-gas
生物活化性	bioactivity
生物測定	bioassay
生物燃料	biofuel
生物界	(biology) the biological world; the realm of living organisms
生物科技	biotechnology
生物群	biota
生物能	bio-energy
生物製劑	biological product
生物製品	biological product
生物質	biomass
生物質能	biomass
生物醫學工程	biomedical engineering
生物量	biomass
生物鏈	food chain
生物鐘	biological clock
生物防治	biological control
生物降解	biodegradation
生物體	organism
生物高分子	biopolymers
生物鹼	alkaloid
生猛	full of life; violent; brave
生理	physiology
生理假	menstrual leave (Tw)
生理學	physiology
生理學家	physiologist
生理性	physiological
生理期	menstrual period
生理鹽水	saline (medicine)
生生不息	to grow and multiply without end
生產	to produce; to manufacture; to give birth to a child
生產企業	manufacturer
生產力	production capability; productive force; productivity
生產勞動	productive labor
生產反應堆	production reactor
生產單位	production unit
生產成本	production costs
生產率	productivity; efficiency of production
生產線	assembly line; production line
生產總值	gross domestic production (GDP); total output value
生產者	producer (of goods, commodities or farm produce etc); manufacturer
生產能力	manufacturing ability; production capacity
生產設施	production facility
生產資料	means of production
生產關係	relations between levels of production; socio-economic relations
生產隊	production team
生畏	to feel intimidated
生番	barbarian; aboriginal savage
生疏	unfamiliar; strange; out of practice
生疑	to start to have doubts; to grow suspicious
生疼	(coll.) very painful
生病	to fall ill
生發	to emerge and grow; to develop
生皮	pelt; raw hide
生石灰	calcium oxide CaO; quicklime
生石膏	gypsum CaSO4·2(H2O); plaster
生硬	rigid; stiff; lacking naturalness or smoothness; awkward; forced
生祠	temple dedicated to sb still alive
生管	production control; production management (abbr. for 生產管理|生产管理[sheng1 chan3 guan3 li3])
生米	coarse rice; uncooked rice
生米做成熟飯	lit. the raw rice is now cooked (idiom); fig. it is done and can't be changed
生米煮成熟飯	the rice is cooked; what's done is done
生米熟飯	abbr. for 生米煮成熟飯|生米煮成熟饭, lit. the raw rice is now cooked (idiom); fig. it is done and can't be changed
生粉	cornflour; starch powder (cooking)
生粉水	starch solution (cooking)
生絲	raw silk
生老病死	(lit.) to be born, to grow old, to get sick and to die (idiom)
生聚教訓	to increase the population, amass wealth, and teach the people to be faithful to the cause (in preparation for war, following a defeat)
生肉	raw meat
生肖	one of the twelve animals symbolic of the earthly branches 地支[di4 zhi1]
生肖屬相	birth year as designated by animal symbols (mouse, ox, tiger etc)
生育	to give birth to; to bear; fertility
生育率	birth rate
生育能力	fertility; ability to have children
生花妙筆	beautiful or talented writing
生苔	mossy
生菜	lettuce; raw fresh vegetables; greens
生薑	fresh ginger
生薑絲	shredded ginger
生藥	unprocessed medicinal herb
生蟲	(of food, books etc) to become infested with bugs
生蠔	raw oyster
生計	livelihood
生詞	new word (in textbook); word that is unfamiliar or not yet studied
生詞本	vocabulary notebook
生詞語	vocabulary words (in language-learning books); new or unfamiliar words
生豬	live pig; pig on the hoof
生財	to make money
生財有道	lit. there are principles behind making money (idiom); fig. to have a knack for good business
生路	a way to make a living; a way to survive; a way out of a predicament
生輝	to dazzle; to brighten up (a room etc)
生辰	birthday
生辰八字	one's birth data for astrological purposes, combined from year, month, day, hour, heavenly trunk and earthly branch
生造	to coin (words or expressions)
生還	to return alive; to survive
生還者	survivor
生酮飲食	ketogenic diet
生鏽	(of metal) to rust; to become rusty
生鐵	pig iron
生長	to grow; to grow up; to be brought up
生長激素	growth hormone
生長率	growth rate
生長素	auxin (plant growth hormone)
生離死別	separated in life and death; to part for ever
生靈	(literary) the people; living thing; creature
生靈塗炭	people are in a terrible situation (idiom)
生願	desire to exist (in Buddhism, tanhā); craving for rebirth
生食	to eat raw; raw food
生養	to bring up (children); to raise; to bear
生髮劑	hair restorer; hair regrowth tonic
生魚片	sashimi
生鮮	fresh produce and freshly prepared foods
生麵糰	dough
生龍活虎	lit. lively dragon and animated tiger (idiom)
甡	multitude; crowd
產	to give birth; to reproduce; to produce
產下	to bear (give birth)
產仔	to give birth (animals); to bear a litter
產值	value of output; output value
產假	maternity leave
產兒	newborn baby; fig. brand-new object
產出	to produce (graduates, breast milk, toxic waste, creative ideas etc)
產前	prenatal; antenatal
產前檢查	prenatal checkup; antenatal examination
產區	place of production; manufacturing location
產卵	to lay eggs
產品	goods; merchandise; product
產品結構	(in business strategy) product mix; product portfolio; composition of a company's product lines or offerings
產品經理	product manager
產地	source (of a product); place of origin; manufacturing location
產地證	certificate of origin (CO or CoO) (commerce)
產女	to give birth to a baby girl
產婆	midwife
產婦	woman recuperating after childbirth; woman in childbirth
產子	to give birth
產後	postnatal
產後抑鬱	postpartum depression
產後抑鬱症	postpartum depression
產房	delivery room (in hospital); labor ward
產期	time of birth; period of labor; lying-in
產業	industry; estate; property
產業化	to industrialize; industrialization
產業工人	industrial worker
產業鏈	industry value chain
產業集群	industrial cluster
產檢	prenatal checkup (abbr. for 產前檢查|产前检查[chan3 qian2 jian3 cha2])
產權	property right
產權轉讓	transfer of property rights; (real estate) title transfer
產油國	oil-producing countries
產物	product; result (of)
產生	to arise; to come into being; to come about
產科	maternity department; maternity ward; obstetrics
產程	the process of childbirth
產糧	to grow crops; food growing
產糧區	food growing area
產糧大省	major agricultural province
產經新聞	Business News; Sankei Shimbun (Tokyo daily)
產線	production line
產能	production capacity
產製	production; manufacture
產褥期	postnatal period; puerperium (period of six weeks after childbirth)
產褥熱	postnatal fever; puerperal fever; childbed fever
產道	birth canal (in obstetrics)
產量	output
產鉗	obstetric forceps
產銷	production and sales; production and marketing
產院	maternity hospital
產露	(Tw) (medicine) lochia
甥	(bound form) sister's son; nephew
甥女	sister's daughter; niece
甦	to revive
甦醒	to come to; to awaken; to regain consciousness
用	to use; to make use of; to employ; (coverb) with; using
用不了	to not use all of; to use less than
用不著	not need; have no use for
用人	servant; to employ sb for a job; to manage people
用人經費	personnel expenditure (accountancy)
用以	in order to; so as to
用作	to use for the purpose of; to serve as
用來	to be used for
用光	out of (supply); spent; exhausted (used up)
用兵如神	to lead military operations with extraordinary skill
用具	appliance; utensil; gear
用典	to use literary quotations; to use phrases taken from the classics
用力	to exert oneself physically
用功	diligent; industrious (in one's studies); to study hard
用命	to follow orders; to abide by; to obey
用品	articles for use; products; goods
用場	use; application
用壞	to wear out (tools)
用字	to use letters; to use words; diction
用完	used up; finished
用家	(HK) user
用工	to employ workers
用度	expense
用得上	needed; to come in useful
用得其所	used properly; used for its intended purpose; to put to good use
用得著	to be able to use; useable; to have a use for
用心	motive; intention; to be diligent or attentive
用心良苦	to ponder earnestly; to give a lot of thought to sth
用意	intention; purpose
用戶	user; consumer; subscriber
用戶創造內容	user-generated content (of a website)
用戶名	username; user ID
用戶界面	user interface
用戶端設備	customer premise equipment; CPE
用戶線	subscriber line
用料	ingredients; material
用於	to use in; to use on; to use for
用武之地	ample scope for abilities
用法	usage
用盡	to exhaust; to use up completely
用盡心機	to tax one's ingenuity
用腦	to undertake mental work
用膳	to dine
用處	usefulness
用計	to employ a stratagem
用詞	usage (of a term); wording; phrasing
用語	choice of words; wording; phraseology
用途	use; application
用量	quantity used; usage; consumption; dose
用錢	to spend money
用間	using spies
用項	items of expenditure; expenditures
用飯	to eat; to have a meal
用餐	to eat a meal
甩	to throw; to fling; to swing
甩上	to slam (a door); to fling up; to splash up
甩乾	to remove excess moisture by spinning; to put (clothes) through the spin cycle; to spin-dry
甩動	to shake; to fling one's arm; to lash
甩包袱	lit. to fling off a bundle
甩尾	drifting (motorsport)
甩手	to swing one's arms; to wash one's hands of sth
甩手掌櫃	lit. arm-flinging shopkeeper
甩手頓腳	to fling one's arms and stamp one's feet (in anger or despair)
甩掉	to throw off; to abandon; to cast off
甩棍	expandable baton
甩臉子	to grimace with displeasure; to pull a long face
甩袖子	to swing one's sleeve (in anger)
甩賣	to mark down (the price of goods); to sell off cheap
甩車	to uncouple (wagons or trucks from a train)
甩遠	to cast far from oneself; to leave sb far behind; to outdistance
甩鍋	(neologism, attested by 2017) to shift the blame; to pass the buck
甩開	to shake off; to get rid of
甩開膀子	to throw off inhibitions; to go all out
甩頭	to fling back one's head
甪	surname Lu; place name
甪端	Luduan, mythical Chinese beast able to detect the truth
甫	(classical) barely; just; just now
甫一	as soon as; immediately after
甬	(classifier) cubic dry measure (5 pecks 五斗, approx half-liter)
甬江	Yong River in Ningbo 寧波|宁波[Ning2 bo1]
甬路	paved path
甬道	walled-in path; paved pathway; canopied passageway
甭	contracted form of 不用[bu4 yong4]
甭管	(coll.) regardless of; no matter (where, who etc)
甮	(dialect) need not; please don't (contracted form of 勿用[wu4 yong4])
田	surname Tian
田七	pseudo-ginseng; radix notoginseng
田中	Tanaka (Japanese surname)
田中角榮	Tanaka Kakuei (1918-1993), Japanese politician, prime minister 1972-1974
田亮	Tian Liang (1979-), former male Chinese diver, Olympic medalist
田園	fields; countryside; rural
田土	farmland
田地	field; farmland; cropland
田坎	embankment between fields
田埂	embankment between fields
田家庵區	Tianjia'an, a district of Huainan City 淮南市[Huai2 nan2 Shi4], Anhui
田役	farm work
田徑	track and field (athletics)
田徑賽	track and field competition
田徑運動	track and field sports
田忌賽馬	Tian Ji races his horses (and accepts one loss in order to ensure two wins) (idiom)
田文	birth name of Lord Menchang of Qi, Chancellor of Qi and Wei during the Warring States Period (475-221 BC)
田村	Tamura (Japanese surname and place name)
田東縣	Tiandong, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
田林縣	Tianlin, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
田格本	exercise book for practicing Chinese character handwriting (each page being a grid of blank cells divided into quadrants, like the character 田)
田漢	Tian Han (1898-1968), author of the words of the PRC national anthem March of the Volunteer Army 義勇軍進行曲|义勇军进行曲
田灣	Tianwan in Lianyungang 連雲港|连云港, site of large nuclear power plant
田獵	to hunt
田產	estate; lands
田畝	field
田納西	Tennessee
田納西州	Tennessee
田舍	farmhouse
田螺	river snail
田賦	land tax
田賽	field events (athletics competition)
田野	field; open land
田野調查	field research; fieldwork
田長霖	Chang-lin Tien (1935–2002), Chinese-American professor, chancellor of the University of California, Berkeley (1990–1997)
田間	field; farm; farming area
田間地頭	(idiom) farms and fields; the grassroots level of agricultural work
田間管理	land management
田陌	path between fields; fields
田陽區	Tianyang, a district of Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
田雞	frog; the Chinese edible frog (Hoplobatrachus rugulosus)
田鵐	(bird species of China) rustic bunting (Emberiza rustica)
田鶇	(bird species of China) fieldfare (Turdus pilaris)
田鷚	(bird species of China) Richard's pipit (Anthus richardi)
田鼠	vole
由	to follow; from; because of; due to
由不得	cannot help; to be beyond control of
由來	origin
由儉入奢易，由奢入儉難	(idiom) it is easy to go from frugality to extravagance; the reverse is not so easy
由徑	to follow a narrow path
由憐生愛	to develop love for sb out of pity for them
由於	due to; as a result of; thanks to
由旬	yojana (Vedic measure, about 8 miles)
由此	hereby; from this
由此可見	from this, it can be seen that...
由此看來	thereby; judging from this
由盛轉衰	from prosperity to decline; at its peak before the decline
由著	let (one) have his way; as (one) pleases; at (one's) will
由表及裡	to proceed from the outside to the inside
由衷	heartfelt; sincere; unfeigned
由頭	pretext; excuse; justification
甲	first of the ten Heavenly Stems 十天干[shi2 tian1 gan1]
甲之蜜糖，乙之砒霜	one man's meat is another man's poison (idiom)
甲乙	first two of the ten Heavenly Stems 十天干[shi2 tian1 gan1]
甲二醇	methylene glycol
甲亢	hyperthyroidism (abbr. for 甲狀腺功能亢進|甲状腺功能亢进[jia3 zhuang4 xian4 gong1 neng2 kang4 jin4])
甲午	thirty-first year A7 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1954 or 2014
甲午戰爭	First Sino-Japanese War (1894-95)
甲型	type A; type I; alpha-
甲型球蛋白	alpha globulin; alpha fetoprotein (AFP)
甲型肝炎	hepatitis A
甲基	methyl group (chemistry)
甲基安非他命	methamphetamine
甲基苯丙胺	methamphetamine
甲子	first year of the sixty-year cycle (where each year is numbered with one of the 10 heavenly stems 天干[tian1 gan1] and one of the 12 earthly branches 地支[di4 zhi1])
甲寅	51st year A3 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1974 or 2034
甲戌	eleventh year A11 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1994 or 2054
甲方	party A (in a contract) (cf. 乙方[yi3 fang1], party B)
甲板	deck (of a ship or boat)
甲殼	carapace; crust; outer shell
甲殼動物	crustacean
甲殼素	chitin
甲殼蟲	the Beatles (1960s UK pop group)
甲殼蟲類	insects of the order Coleoptera (i.e. beetles)
甲殼類	crustacean
甲氧基	methoxy (chemistry)
甲氧西林	methicillin (a semisynthetic penicillin) (loanword)
甲氨基	methyalamino group
甲氰菊酯	fenpropathrin (insecticide)
甲流	type A influenza (abbr. for 甲型流感[jia3 xing2 liu2 gan3])
甲減	hypothyroidism (abbr. for 甲狀腺功能減退|甲状腺功能减退[jia3 zhuang4 xian4 gong1 neng2 jian3 tui4])
甲溝炎	paronychia (medicine)
甲烷	methane CH4
甲狀旁腺	(anatomy) parathyroid gland
甲狀腺	(anatomy) thyroid gland
甲狀腺功能亢進	hyperthyroidism
甲狀腺功能減退	hypothyroidism
甲狀腺激素	thyroid hormone
甲狀腺素	thyroid hormone; thyroxine (used to treat underactive thyroid)
甲狀腺腫	goiter (enlargement of thyroid gland)
甲狀軟骨	(anatomy) thyroid cartilage
甲申	21st year A9 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2004 or 2064
甲申政變	unsuccessful and bloody Korean palace coup in 1884 by Westernisers against conservatives, crushed by Qing troops
甲硝唑	metronidazole (antibacterial agent); Flagyl (trade name)
甲硫氨酸	methionine (Met), an essential amino acid
甲磺磷定	pralidoxime mesylate
甲第	residence of a noble; top candidate in the imperial examinations
甲等	grade A; first-class
甲級	first rate; top class; excellent
甲級戰犯	a grade A war criminal
甲紫	gentian violet
甲肝	hepatitis A
甲胄	armor
甲胺	(chemistry) methylamine
甲胺磷	methamidophos (chemistry)
甲苯	toluene C6H5CH3; methylbenzene
甲蟲	beetle
甲蟲車	Volkswagen Beetle
甲辰	41st year A5 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1964 or 2024
甲酚	cresol (chemistry)
甲酰胺	(chemistry) formamide
甲酸	formylic acid (HCOOH); formic acid; methanoic acid
甲醇	methyl alcohol; methanol CH3OH; wood alcohol
甲醚	methyl ether CH3OCH3
甲醛	formaldehyde (HCHO)
甲鎧	armor
甲骨	tortoise shells and animal bones used for divination in the Shang Dynasty (c. 16th to 11th century BC); oracle bones
甲骨文	oracle script
甲骨文字	oracle script; oracle bone character (an early form of Chinese script)
甲魚	softshell turtle
申	old name for Shanghai 上海[Shang4 hai3]; surname Shen
申不害	Shen Buhai (385-337 BC), legalist political thinker
申令	an order; a command
申冤	to appeal for justice; to demand redress for a grievance
申命記	Book of Deuteronomy; Fifth Book of Moses
申城	alternative name for Shanghai 上海[Shang4 hai3]
申報	to report (to the authorities); to declare (to customs)
申報單	declaration form
申奏	to present (a document); to submit (a petition)
申屠	two-character surname Shentu
申扎縣	Xainza, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
申斥	to rebuke; to blame; to denounce
申明	to declare; to aver; to state formally
申時	3-5 pm (in the system of two-hour subdivisions used in former times)
申曲	Shanghai opera; same as 滬劇|沪剧
申根	Schengen, village in Luxemburg, location of the 1985 signing of the agreement to create the Schengen area 申根區|申根区[Shen1 gen1 qu1]
申根區	the Schengen area, a passport-free zone in Europe
申狀	to present (a document); to submit (a petition)
申猴	Year 9, year of the Monkey (e.g. 2004)
申理	to right a wrong; to seek justice
申申	cozy and comfortable; to repeat endlessly
申言	to profess; to declare
申討	to denounce
申訴	to file a complaint
申訴書	written appeal
申說	to state; to assert
申請	to apply for sth; application form (CL:份[fen4])
申請人	applicant
申請書	application; application form; petition (to higher authorities)
申請表	application form
申論	to give a detailed exposition; to state in detail
申謝	to express gratitude; to thank
申購	to ask to buy; to bid for purchase
申辦	to apply for; to bid for
申辯	to defend oneself; to rebut a charge
申述	to state; to assert; to allege
申通	STO Express, courier service headquartered in Shanghai, founded in 1993
申遺	to apply for UNESCO World Heritage status
申雪	to right a wrong; to redress an injustice
申領	to apply (for license, visa etc)
申飭	to warn; to blame; to rebuke
甴	used in 曱甴[yue1 zha2]
男	(bound form) male
男丁	adult male
男中音	baritone
男主	male lead; male protagonist
男主外，女主內	men go out to work and women stay at home (idiom)
男主角	male lead; male protagonist
男人	a man; a male; men
男人不壞，女人不愛	women love bad guys
男人婆	tomboy
男人家	a man (rather than a woman)
男人膝下有黃金	lit. the man has gold under his knees; fig. a man who does not easily kneel in front of others (owing to pride or moral integrity)
男低音	(music) bass voice
男修道院長	abbot
男儐相	best man (in a marriage)
男兒	a (real) man; boy; son
男兒有淚不輕彈	real men do not easily cry (idiom)
男凝	male gaze (abbr. for 男性凝視|男性凝视[nan2 xing4 ning2 shi4])
男友	boyfriend
男友力	(coll.) attractiveness (as a potential boyfriend)
男同	gay guy (coll.)
男同胞	man; male; male compatriot
男單	men's singles (in tennis, badminton etc)
男團	boy band
男基尼	mankini (loanword)
男士	man; gentleman
男大	(slang) male university student; male college student
男女	male-female; male and female
男女同校	coeducation
男女平等	equality of the sexes
男女授受不親	men and women should not touch hands when they give or receive things (citation, from Mencius)
男女老少	men, women, young and old; all kinds of people; people of all ages
男女老幼	men, women, young and old; everybody
男女關係	man-woman connection; intimate relationship
男妓	male prostitute; (old) pimp
男娃	(dialect) boy; guy
男娘	(slang) femboy
男婚女嫁	to celebrate a wedding
男嬰	male baby
男子	a man; a male
男子單打	men's singles (in tennis etc)
男子氣	manly; masculine
男子氣概	masculinity; manliness
男子漢	man (i.e. manly, masculine)
男子漢大丈夫	(coll.) he-man
男子籃球	men's basketball
男孩	boy
男孩兒	erhua form of 男孩[nan2 hai2]
男孩子	boy
男孩樂隊	boy band (type of pop group)
男家	man's family (in marriage)
男尊女卑	to regard men as superior to women (idiom)
男工	male worker
男左女右	the left is for males, the right is for females (traditional saying)
男巫	wizard; warlock
男廁	men's restroom; men's toilet
男怕入錯行，女怕嫁錯郎	men fear getting into the wrong line of business, women fear marrying the wrong man (proverb)
男性	the male sex; a male
男性主義	masculism
男性凝視	male gaze
男性化	to masculinize; masculinization
男性厭惡	misandry
男性貶抑	misandry
男才女貌	talented man and beautiful woman; ideal couple
男扮女裝	(of a man) to dress as a woman (idiom)
男排	men's volleyball; abbr. for 男子排球
男方	(of a marriage) the bridegroom's side; the husband's side
男旦	male actor playing the female role (Chinese opera)
男星	male star; famous actor
男朋友	boyfriend
男校	all-boys school
男根	penis
男歡女愛	passionate love (idiom)
男爵	baron
男生	schoolboy; male student; boy
男的	man
男神	Mr Perfect; Adonis; Prince Charming
男票	boyfriend (Internet slang)
男童	boy; male child
男管家	butler; majordomo; housekeeper
男籃	men's basketball; men's basketball team
男色	male homosexuality
男蟲	swindler; conman
男衛	men's bathroom (abbr. for 男衛生間|男卫生间)
男裝	men's clothes
男護	male nurse
男賓	male guest; male visitor
男足	abbr. for 男子足球 men's soccer; abbr. for 男子足球隊|男子足球队 men's soccer team
男雙	men's doubles (in tennis, badminton etc)
男風	male homosexuality; buggery
男高	(slang) male high school student
男高音	tenor (singing voice); a tenor
甸	suburbs or outskirts
甹	chivalrous knight
町	raised path between fields
甽	drain between fields, irrigation
甾	steroid nucleus
甾酮	sterone (steroid containing a ketone group); steroid hormone
甾醇	sterol (chemistry)
畀	to confer on; to give to
畇	reclaimed land
畈	field; farm
畋	to cultivate (land); to hunt
畋獵	to hunt
界	(bound form) boundary; border; (bound form) realm
界內球	ball within bounds (sports); in; fair ball (baseball)
界別	to divide up into different zones; (HK) sector of society
界址	boundary (of a piece of land or territory)
界定	definition; to delimit
界尺	ungraduated ruler; straightedge
界樁	boundary marker; boundary post; boundary pillar
界標	landmark
界河	border river (between countries or regions)
界畫	accurate depiction of architectural forms with the aid of a ruler (technique of Chinese art)
界碑	tablet marking the boundary between two regions, districts etc
界線	limits; bounds; dividing line
界限	boundary
界面	contact surface; (computing) interface
界首市	Jieshou, a county-level city in Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
畎	field drains
畏	to fear
畏友	revered friend
畏忌	to be arrested by fear; restraint; scruple
畏怯	timorous; nervous
畏懼	to fear; to dread; foreboding
畏畏縮縮	cowering; cringing
畏縮	to cower; to flinch; to quail; to recoil
畏縮不前	to shrink back in fear (idiom); too cowardly to advance
畏罪	to dread punishment; afraid of being arrested for a crime
畏罪潛逃	to flee to escape punishment; to abscond from justice
畏罪自殺	to commit suicide to escape punishment
畏途	dangerous road; (fig.) perilous or intimidating undertaking
畏難	to be daunted by challenges
畏首畏尾	afraid of the head, terrified of the tail (idiom); ever fearful and nervous
畑	used in Japanese names with phonetic value hatake, bata etc
畔	(bound form) side; edge; boundary
畔援	domineering; tyrannical
留	to leave (a message etc); to retain; to stay
留一手	to deliberately withhold essential knowledge or skills as strategic insurance (typically to maintain leverage, avoid being replaced, or preserve authority in hierarchical relationships)
留下	to leave behind; to stay behind; to remain
留任	to remain in office; to hold on to one's job
留住	to ask sb to stay; to keep sb for the night; to await (classical)
留作	to set aside for; to keep as
留傳	to bequeath (to later generations); a legacy
留別	a departing gift; a souvenir on leaving
留名	to leave one's name; to leave one's mark
留園	Lingering Garden in Suzhou, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
留堂	to stay behind (after class); to be given detention; detention
留壩縣	Liuba, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
留子	(slang) international student; student studying abroad
留存	to keep; to preserve; extant
留存收益	retained earnings
留學	to study abroad
留學生	student studying abroad; returned student; foreign student; international student
留守	to stay behind to take care of things
留守兒童	"left-behind children", rural children whose parents have to make a living as migrant workers in distant urban areas, but cannot afford to keep the family with them
留客	to ask a guest to stay; to detain a guest
留宿	to put up a guest; to stay overnight
留尼旺	Réunion (island in Indian Ocean, a French overseas department) (Tw)
留尼汪	Réunion (island in Indian Ocean, a French overseas department)
留尾巴	to leave loose ends; to leave matters unresolved
留底	to keep a copy; copy kept for archiving
留影	to take a photo as a souvenir; a souvenir photo
留待	to leave sth for later; to postpone (work, a decision etc)
留後	to provide an heir; to ensure the continuation of a family line
留後路	to leave oneself a way out; to provide oneself with a fallback
留得青山在，不怕沒柴燒	While the green hills last, there'll be wood to burn (idiom). Where there's life there's hope.
留心	to be careful; to pay attention to
留心眼兒	to be on the alert; to keep one's eyes open
留念	to keep as a souvenir; to recall fondly
留情	to relent (to spare sb's feelings); to show mercy or forgiveness
留意	to be mindful; to pay attention to; to take note of
留戀	reluctant to leave; to hate to have to go; to recall fondly
留成	to retain a portion (of profits etc)
留有	to remain in existence; to retain
留有餘地	to leave some leeway; to allow for the unpredictable
留校	to join the faculty of one's alma mater upon graduation
留樣	retention sample
留步	(said by departing guest) no need to see me out
留洋	(old) to study abroad; (sports) to train abroad
留活口	to capture alive a criminal (or enemy etc) for interrogation
留班	to repeat a year in school
留用	to keep for use; to retain sth; to keep sb in his job
留白	to leave a message; to leave some empty space in a work of art
留神	to take care; to be careful
留種	to keep a seed stock; seed held back for planting
留空	to leave blank space in a document; to leave some time free
留級	to repeat a year in school
留給	to set aside for
留置	to leave in place; to set aside (for further use); to retain
留聲機	gramophone; phonograph
留職	to keep an official position; to hold on to one's job
留職停薪	(Tw) leave of absence without pay
留蘭香	spearmint
留觀	(medicine) to remain in hospital under observation
留言	to leave a message; to leave one's comments; message
留言本	guestbook
留言簿	visitor's book
留話	to leave a message
留遺	to leave behind; sb's legacy
留都	the old capital (after a move)
留醫	to be hospitalized
留里克	Rurik (c. 830-879), Varangian chieftain of the Rus' people
留針	to leave an inserted needle in place for a period of time (acupuncture)
留門	to leave the door unlocked for sb
留院	to remain in the hospital
留難	to make sth difficult; to create obstacles
留題	extemporaneous thoughts noted down after a visit
留飯	to put some food aside for sb; to invite sb to stay for a meal
留飲	(TCM) edema; dropsy
留餘地	to leave room to maneuver; to leave a margin for error
留駐	to keep stationed (of troops); to remain as a garrison
留鳥	nonmigratory bird
畚	a basket or pan used for earth, manure etc
畚斗	dustpan
畚箕	a bamboo or wicker scoop; dustpan
畛	border; boundary; field-path
畛域	(formal) boundary; scope
畜	livestock; domesticated animal; domestic animal
畜力	animal power; animal-drawn (plow etc)
畜欄	pen for livestock
畜牧	to raise animals
畜牧業	animal husbandry; stock raising; livestock raising
畜生	domestic animal; brute; bastard
畜產品	domesticated animal products
畜肥	animal manure
畜類	domestic animal
畝	mu, Chinese unit of area equal to 1
畝產	agricultural yield per "mu" 畝|亩[mu3]
畟	sharp
畢	the whole of; to finish; to complete
畢其功於一役	to accomplish the whole task at one stroke (idiom)
畢典	graduation ceremony (abbr. for 畢業典禮|毕业典礼[bi4 ye4 dian3 li3])
畢加索	Picasso
畢卡索	Picasso (Tw)
畢命	to die (in an accident etc); to have one's life cut short
畢婚	to get married right after graduation
畢宿五	Aldebaran or Alpha Tauri
畢尼奧夫	Hugo Benioff (1899-1968), Caltech seismologist
畢尼奧夫帶	Benioff zone (geology); also called Wadati-Benioff zone
畢恭畢敬	reverent and respectful; extremely deferential
畢摩	shaman among the Yi ethnic group
畢昇	Bi Sheng (990-1051), inventor of movable type
畢業	graduation; to graduate; to finish school
畢業典禮	graduation ceremony; commencement exercises
畢業生	graduate
畢業設計	graduation project
畢業證書	(PRC) (since 1985) graduation certificate, which certifies that the student has graduated, but not necessarily met all requirements to be awarded a degree certificate 學位證書|学位证书[xue2 wei4 zheng4 shu1]
畢爾巴鄂	Bilbao (city in Spain)
畢生	one's whole life; throughout one's life
畢畢剝剝	(onom.) sound of knocking or bursting
畢竟	after all; all in all; when all is said and done
畢節市	Bijie, prefecture-level city in Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
畢肖	to resemble closely; to be the very image of; to look very much like
畢茲	QNB (quinuclidinyl benzilate)
畢設	graduation project (abbr. for 畢業設計|毕业设计[bi4 ye4 she4 ji4])
畢達哥拉斯	Pythagoras
畤	ancient sacrifice
略	brief; sketchy; outline; summary; to omit
略作	to be abbreviated to; (followed by a verb) slightly
略勝一籌	slightly better; a cut above
略去	to omit; to delete; to leave out
略圖	sketch; sketch map; thumbnail picture
略字	abbreviated character; simplified character
略帶	to have (an attribute) to a small degree; to have a touch of
略微	a little bit; slightly
略為	slightly
略略	slightly; roughly; briefly; very generally
略知一二	(idiom) to know just a little; to have a rough idea
略知皮毛	slight knowledge of sth; superficial acquaintance with a subject
略碼	code
略稱	abbreviation
略舉	some cases picked out as example; to highlight
略見一斑	lit. to glimpse just one spot (of the leopard) (idiom)
略語	abbreviation
略識之無	semiliterate; only knows words of one syllable
略讀	to read cursorily; to skim through
略跡原情	to overlook past faults (idiom); to forgive and forget
略過	to pass over; to skip
略釋	a brief explanation; to summarize
略陽縣	Lueyang, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
畦	small plot of farm land; Taiwan pr. [xi1]
番	(bound form) foreign (non-Chinese); barbarian
番刀	type of machete used by Taiwan aborigines, worn at the waist in an open-sided scabbard
番劇	anime series
番客	(old) foreigner; alien; (dialect) overseas Chinese
番木瓜	papaya
番木鱉鹼	strychnine (C21H22N2O2)
番椒	hot pepper; chili
番瀉葉	senna leaf (Folium sennae)
番瓜	(dialect) pumpkin
番界	territory occupied by aborigines in Taiwan (old)
番番	time and time again
番石榴	guava (fruit)
番禺區	Panyu, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
番紅花	saffron (Crocus sativus)
番茄	tomato
番茄汁	tomato juice
番茄紅素	Lycopene
番茄醬	ketchup; tomato sauce
番荔枝	custard apple; soursop (Annonaceae)
番菜	(old) Western-style food; foreign food
番薯	(dialect) sweet potato; yam
番號	number of military unit
番邦	(old) foreign land; alien nation
番鴨	Muscovy duck
番麥	(Tw) corn (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [huan-be̍h])
畫	to draw; to paint; picture; painting (CL:幅[fu2],張|张[zhang1])
畫作	painting; picture
畫像	portrait; to do a portrait of sb
畫兒	picture; drawing; painting
畫冊	picture album
畫刷	paintbrush
畫十字	to make the sign of the cross; to make a cross (on paper)
畫卷	picture scroll; (fig.) panorama; vivid tableau
畫圓	to draw a circle
畫圖	to draw designs, maps etc; picture (e.g. of life in the city)
畫地為牢	lit. to be confined within a circle drawn on the ground (idiom)
畫地自限	lit. to draw a line on the ground to keep within (idiom)
畫報	illustrated magazine
畫壇	painting world; painting circles
畫外音	voice-over; background narration
畫室	artist's studio; atelier
畫家	painter
畫展	art exhibition
畫布	canvas (artist's painting surface)
畫師	(art) painter
畫幅	painting; picture; dimension of a painting
畫廊	art gallery; decorated corridor
畫押	to sign; to make one's mark
畫架	easel
畫框	picture frame
畫氈	felt desk pad for calligraphy
畫法	painting technique; drawing method
畫法幾何	descriptive geometry (three-dimensional geometry using projections and elevations)
畫畫	to draw; to paint
畫皮	painted skin (which transforms a monster into a beauty)
畫眉	to apply makeup to the eyebrows
畫稿	rough sketch (of a painting)
畫筆	painting brush
畫等號	to equate; to consider (two things) to be equivalent
畫舫	decorated pleasure boat
畫荻教子	to write on the sand with reeds while teaching one's son (idiom)
畫虎不成反類犬	to try to draw a tiger but end up with a likeness of a dog (idiom)
畫虎類犬	to try to draw a tiger but end up with a likeness of a dog (idiom)
畫蛇添足	lit. draw legs on a snake (idiom); fig. to ruin the effect by adding sth superfluous
畫質	image quality; resolution; definition
畫軸	character scroll; scroll painting
畫面	scene; tableau; picture
畫風	painting style
畫餅	(fig.) to make empty or unrealistic promises; to engage in unrealistic planning
畫餅充飢	lit. to allay one's hunger using a picture of a cake
畫龍點睛	to paint a dragon and dot in the eyes (idiom); fig. to add the vital finishing touch
畬	(literary) farmland that has been cultivated for two years
畯	overseer; steppe
異	different; other; hetero-
異丁烷	isobutane
異丁苯丙酸	Ibuprofen or Nurofen
異世界	(ACG) another world; parallel universe (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 異世界 "isekai")
異丙苯	(chemistry) isopropylbenzene C9H12 (aka cumene)
異丙醇	isopropanol; isopropyl alcohol C3H8O
異乎尋常	unusual; extraordinary
異事	sth else; a separate matter; not the same thing
異亮氨酸	isoleucine (Ile), an essential amino acid
異人	eccentric; unusual person; talented individual
異像	extraordinary image
異動	to shift; to alter; unusual change; abnormal move
異化	alienation (philosophy); (of speech) dissimilation
異化作用	catabolism (biology); metabolic breaking down and waste disposal
異卵	(of twins) fraternal; dizygotic
異卵雙胞胎	fraternal twins
異口同聲	different mouths, same voice; to speak in unison (idiom)
異同	comparison; differences and similarities
異味	unpleasant odor
異咯嗪	isoalloxazine (name of organic chemical)
異國	exotic; foreign
異國他鄉	foreign lands and places (idiom); living as expatriate
異國情調	exoticism; local color; exotic
異地	different place; abroad
異地戀	long-distance romance; long-distance relationship
異域	foreign country; alien land
異女	(Tw) heterosexual woman; straight woman
異己	dissident; alien; outsider
異常	unusual; abnormal; extremely; exceptionally
異形	not the usual type; atypical; heterotype
異形詞	variant spelling of the same Chinese word, e.g. 筆劃|笔划[bi3 hua4] and 筆畫|笔画[bi3 hua4]
異彩	extraordinary splendor
異心	disloyalty; infidelity
異性	the opposite sex; of the opposite sex; heterosexual
異性性接觸	heterosexual sex
異性戀	heterosexuality; heterosexual love
異性戀主義	heterosexism
異性相吸	opposite polarities attract; (fig.) opposite sexes attract
異想天開	(idiom) to imagine the wildest thing; to indulge in fantasy
異戊二烯	isoprene
異戊巴比妥	amobarbital (drug) (loanword)
異戊橡膠	isoprene rubber
異或	(logic, computing) XOR; exclusive or
異才	extraordinary talent
異教	heresy; heathenism
異教徒	member of another religion; heathen; pagan
異文	variant character; loan word; variant written form (for the same word)
異族	different tribe
異星人	space alien; extraterrestrial
異曲同工	different tunes played with equal skill (idiom)
異株蕁麻	common nettle (Urtica dioica)
異構	isomeric (chemistry)
異構體	isomer (chemistry)
異樣	difference; peculiar
異步	asynchronous
異步傳輸模式	asynchronous transfer mode; ATM
異母	(of siblings) having the same father but different mothers
異源多倍體	allopolyploid (polyploid with chromosomes of different species)
異焉	feeling surprised at sth
異父	with different father (e.g. of half-brother)
異物	rarity; rare delicacy; foreign matter
異特龍	allosaurus
異狀	unusual condition; something odd; strange shape
異男	(Tw) heterosexual man; straight man
異病同治	to use the same method to treat different diseases (TCM)
異種	hetero-; variety
異端	heresy
異端者	a heretic
異維A酸	isotretinoin (used in acne treatment)
異義	differing opinion
異能	different function
異腈	carbylamine; isocyanide
異色樹鶯	(bird species of China) aberrant bush warbler (Horornis flavolivaceus)
異花授粉	(botany) cross-pollination
異裝癖	transvestism
異見	dissident; dissenting; dissent
異見者	dissident
異言	dissenting words
異說	different opinion; dissident view; absurd remark
異議	objection; dissent
異議人士	dissident
異議分子	dissident
異議者	dissenter; dissident
異讀	variant pronunciation (when the same character has more than one reading)
異讀詞	word having alternative pronunciations
異象	(religion) a vision; strange phenomenon
異質	heterogeneous
異質體	variant
異軍突起	to emerge as a new force to be reckoned with (idiom)
異邦	foreign country
異鄉	foreign land; a place far from home
異鄉人	stranger
異面直線	(math.) skew lines
異響	unusual sound; strange noise; to make a strange sound
異頻雷達收發機	transponder; electronic device that responds to a radio code
異類	different kind (sometimes with a connotation of strangeness or eccentricity)
異食癖	pica (medicine)
異養生物	(biology) heterotroph
異香	rare perfume
異香撲鼻	exotic odors assail the nostrils (idiom)
異體	variant form (of a Chinese character)
異體字	variant Chinese character
異龍	allosaurus; also written 異特龍|异特龙
畲	She ethnic group
畲族	She ethnic group
當	at or in the very same...; suitable; adequate
當上	to take up duty as; to assume a position; to assume
當下	immediately; at once; at that moment
當且僅當	if and only if
當世	the present age; in office; the current office holder
當世無雙	unequalled in his time
當中	among; in the middle; in the center
當之有愧	to feel undeserving of the praise or the honor
當之無愧	fully deserving, without any reservations (idiom); entirely worthy (of a title, honor etc)
當事	to consider as a matter of importance; to be of importance
當事人	persons involved or implicated; party (to an affair)
當事國	the countries involved
當事者	the person involved; the people holding power
當仁不讓	to be unwilling to pass on one's responsibilities to others
當今	the present time
當代	the present age; the contemporary era
當代史	contemporary history
當代新儒家	Contemporary New Confucianism
當令	to be in season; seasonal
當作	to treat as; to regard as
當值	to be on duty
當做	to treat as; to regard as; to look upon as
當兒	the very moment; just then; during (that brief interval)
當兵	to serve in the army; to be a soldier
當初	at that time; originally
當前	the present time; to be faced with
當務之急	(idiom) top priority job; a matter of the greatest urgency
當即	at once; on the spot
當口	at that moment; just then
當回事	to take seriously (often with negative expression: "don't take it too seriously")
當地	local
當地居民	a local person; the local population
當地時間	local time
當場	at the scene; on the spot
當夜	that very night; the same night
當天	the same day
當季	this season; the current season
當官不為民做主不如回家賣紅薯	if an official does not put the people first, he might as well go home and sell sweet potatoes
當家	to manage the household; to be the one in charge of the family
當家作主	to be in charge in one's own house (idiom)
當局	authorities
當局者迷，旁觀者清	(idiom) an outsider can see things more clearly or objectively than those involved
當年	in those days; back then; in those years; to be in the prime of life
當心	to take care; to look out
當成	to consider as; to take to be
當掉	to fail (a student); to pawn; (of a computer or program) to crash
當政	to come to power; to hold power; in office
當政者	power holder; current political ruler
當斷不斷	(idiom) to waver when decisiveness is needed
當斷則斷	to make a decision when it's time to decide
當斷即斷	not to delay making a decision when a decision is needed
當日	that very day; the same day
當時	immediately; right then
當晚	the same evening
當月	the same month
當槍使	to use (sb) as a tool
當機立斷	to make prompt decisions (idiom)
當權	to hold power
當權派	persons or faction in authority
當權者	ruler; those in power; the authorities
當歸	Angelica sinensis
當涂縣	Dangtu, a county in Ma'anshan City 馬鞍山市|马鞍山市[Ma3 an1 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
當然	only natural; as it should be; certainly
當牛作馬	to work like a horse and toil like an ox; fig. to slave for sb
當班	to work one's shift
當當	Dangdang (online retailer)
當真	to take seriously; serious; No joking, really!
當眾	in public; in front of everybody
當空	overhead; up in the sky
當紅	currently popular (of movie stars, singers etc)
當耳旁風	lit. to treat (what sb says) as wind past your ear
當耳邊風	lit. to treat (what sb says) as wind past your ear
當著	in front of; in the presence of
當行出色	to excel in one's field
當街	in the middle of the street; facing the street
當責	accountability
當軸	person in power; important official
當道	in the middle of the road; to be in the way; to hold power
當選	to be elected; to be selected
當量	equivalent; yield
當量劑量	equivalent dose
當鋪	pawnshop
當陽市	Dangyang, a county-level city in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
當雄縣	Damxung, a county in Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
當面	to sb's face; in sb's presence
當面鑼，對面鼓	lit. gong facing gong, drum opposite drum (idiom)
當頭	coming right into one's face; imminent; to put first
當駕	imperial driver
畷	raised path between fields
畸	lopsided; unbalanced; abnormal
畸型	malformation
畸形	deformed; malformed; lopsided; unbalanced
畸形兒	deformed child; child with birth defect
畸形秀	freak show
畸態	deformity; birth defect; abnormality
畸戀	improper love affair; unhealthy relationship (age-inappropriate, obsessive, incestuous etc)
畸胎	a teratism; monster; severely deformed individual
畸胎瘤	teratoma (medicine)
畸變	distortion; aberration
畸零	fractional part of a real number; odd fractional remnant; lone person
畹	a field of 20 or 30 mu
畽	place trodden by animals
畾	fields divided by dikes
畿	territory around the capital
疃	village; animal track
疆	border; boundary
疆土	territory
疆域	territory
疆場	battlefield
疆界	border; boundary
疇	arable fields; cultivated field; class
疊	to pile up; (bound form) repeated; to fold
疊加	to superimpose; to layer; to overlay
疊合	to overlay; to superpose; to superimpose; to overlap
疊層	repeated layers; stratified; laminated
疊層岩	stromatolite
疊層石	stromatolite
疊彩區	Diecai, a district of Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
疊放	to stack; to lay one on top of another
疊紙	to fold paper; origami
疊羅漢	human pyramid
疊音鈸	ride cymbal (drum kit component)
疋	classifier for cloth: bolt
疎謀少略	(idiom) unable to plan; inept at strategy
疏	to dredge; to clear away obstruction; thin
疏不間親	(idiom) outsiders should not come between close relatives
疏剪	to prune
疏勒國	Shule, oasis state in central Asia (near modern Kashgar) at different historical periods
疏勒縣	Shule, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
疏失	to make a (careless) mistake; oversight
疏導	to dredge; to open up a path for; to remove obstructions
疏忽	to neglect; to overlook; negligence
疏忽大意	oversight; negligence; careless
疏忽職守	to neglect one's duties
疏懶	indolent; careless
疏挖	to dredge; to dig out (a channel)
疏放	eccentric; self-indulgent; free and unconventional (written style)
疏散	to scatter; to disperse; to evacuate; scattered; sparse
疏於	to fail to pay sufficient attention to; to be negligent in regard to
疏於防範	to neglect to take precautions; relaxed vigilance
疏果	to thin fruit (to increase fruit size etc)
疏水	(chemistry) hydrophobic
疏水簞瓢	little water and few utensils; to live a frugal life (idiom)
疏浚	to dredge
疏淡	sparse; thin; distant
疏漏	to slip up; to overlook by negligence; careless omission; oversight
疏狂	uninhibited; unrestrained; unbridled
疏率	careless and rash; heedless
疏理	to clarify (disparate material into a coherent narrative)
疏略	negligence; to neglect inadvertently
疏疏	sparse; blurred; old for 楚楚[chu3 chu3]
疏而不漏	loose, but allows no escape (idiom, from Laozi 老子[Lao3 zi3]); the way of Heaven is fair, but the guilty will not escape
疏肝理氣	to course the liver and rectify 氣|气[qi4] (TCM)
疏落	sparse; scattered
疏解	to mediate; to mitigate; to ease
疏財仗義	distributing money, fighting for virtue (idiom); fig. generous in helping the needy
疏財重義	distributing money, supporting virtue (idiom); fig. to give generously in a public cause
疏通	to unblock; to dredge; to clear the way
疏通費	facilitation payment; bribe
疏遠	to drift apart; to become estranged; to alienate
疏開	to disperse
疏闊	inaccurate; slipshod; poorly thought-out
疏附縣	Shufu, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
疏離	to become alienated; estranged; alienation
疏鬆	to loosen
疐	prostrate
疑	(bound form) to doubt; to suspect
疑似	to be suspected to be
疑兇	suspected of murder; criminal suspect
疑兵	troops deployed to mislead the enemy
疑冰	ignorant; doubt stemming from ignorance
疑問	question; interrogation; doubt
疑問代詞	interrogative pronoun (誰|谁, 什麼|什么, 哪兒|哪儿 etc)
疑問句	question (grammar); interrogative sentence
疑團	doubts and suspicions; a maze of doubts; puzzle
疑心	suspicion; to suspect
疑心病	excessive suspiciousness; (non-clinical) paranoia
疑忌	jealousy; suspicious and jealous
疑念	doubt
疑惑	to doubt; to distrust; unconvincing
疑慮	hesitation; misgivings; doubt
疑懼	misgivings
疑案	a doubtful case; a controversy
疑涉	to be suspected of
疑犯	a suspect
疑獄	a hard legal case to judge
疑病症	hypochondriasis; hypochondria; also written 疑病[yi2 bing4]
疑神疑鬼	to suspect everyone; overly suspicious
疑竇	(literary) doubts; suspicions; cause for suspicion
疑義	a doubtful point
疑陣	a diversion; a feint attack to mislead the enemy
疑難	hard to understand; difficult to deal with; knotty
疑難問題	knotty problem; intractable difficulty
疑難解答	trouble shooting; solution to difficulties
疑難雜症	dubious or hard-to-treat cases (medicine); hard cases
疑雲	a haze of doubts and suspicions
疑點	a doubtful point
疒	sick; sickness; Kang Xi radical 104
疔	boil; carbuncle
疕	facial skin disease; mange
疘	used in 脫疘|脱肛[tuo1 gang1]
疙	used in 疙瘩[ge1 da5] and 疙疸[ge1 da5]
疙瘩	swelling or lump on skin; pimple; knot; lump; preoccupation; problem
疙瘩湯	dough-drop soup (made by dropping small, irregular lumps of dough into the simmering broth)
疚	chronic disease; guilt; remorse
疝	hernia
疝氣	hernia
疢	(disease)
疣	nodule; wart
疣狀	warty; bumpy; wart-shaped
疣豬	warthog
疣贅	wart; superfluous; useless
疣鼻天鵝	(bird species of China) mute swan (Cygnus olor)
疤	scar; scab
疤痕	scar
疥	scabies
疥瘡	scabies; welts
疧	(literary) disease; Taiwan pr. [zhi1]
疫	(bound form) epidemic; plague
疫區	epidemic area
疫情	epidemic situation
疫病	plague; a blight
疫苗	vaccine
疲	weary
疲乏	tired; weary
疲倦	to tire; tired
疲勞	fatigue; wearily; weariness
疲勞症	fatigue
疲匱	tired; weary
疲困	(literary) tired; fatigued; (economics) weak
疲弱	tired; weak; exhausted
疲態	fatigued look; signs of weariness
疲憊	beaten; exhausted; tired
疲憊不堪	exhausted; fatigued to the extreme
疲於奔命	(idiom) terribly busy; up to one's ears in work
疲沓	slack; remiss; negligent
疲累	tired; exhausted
疲軟	tired and feeble
疳	(TCM) chronic pediatric malnutrition disorder
疵	blemish; flaw; defect
疶	dysentery
疸	used in 疙疸[ge1 da5]
疹	measles; rash
疹子	rash
疼	(it) hurts; sore; to love dearly
疼惜	to cherish; to dote on
疼愛	to love dearly; to dote on (sb)
疼死	to really hurt
疼痛	pain; (of a body part) to be painful; to be sore; to hurt
疽	gangrene
疾	(bound form) disease; ailment; (bound form) swift
疾控中心	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
疾書	to scribble rapidly
疾步	at a fast pace
疾病	disease; sickness; ailment
疾苦	pain and difficulties; suffering (of the people)
疾走	to scamper; to scurry
疾速	very fast; at high speed
疾風	strong wind; gale
疾風勁草	lit. sturdy grass withstands high winds (idiom)
疾風知勁草	lit. sturdy grass withstands high winds (idiom)
疾風知勁草，烈火見真金	lit. sturdy grass withstands high winds and true gold stands the test of fire (idiom)
疾首	extremely angry; infuriated; enraged
疾馳	to speed along
疾馳而過	to sweep past; to hurtle past; to swoosh past
疾駛	(of a vehicle) to travel at high speed
痁	malarial fever
痂	scab
痂皮	scab
痄	mumps
病	illness; disease; to fall ill
病人	sick person; patient; invalid
病休	to be on sick leave
病來如山倒，病去如抽絲	sickness comes like a landslide, but goes slowly like spinning silk (idiom); expect to convalesce slowly
病例	(medical) case; occurrence of illness
病倒	to fall ill; to be stricken with an illness
病假	sick leave
病假條	sick note; medical certificate for sick leave
病入膏肓	lit. the disease has attacked the vitals (idiom); fig. beyond cure
病勢	degree of seriousness of an illness; patient's condition
病包兒	a person who is always falling ill; chronic invalid
病危	to be critically ill; to be terminally ill
病原	cause of disease; pathogen
病原菌	a pathogen; a bacterial pathogen
病原體	(med.) pathogen
病友	a friend made in hospital or people who become friends in hospital
病句	ill-formed sentence (esp. one containing grammatical or logical errors)
病史	medical history
病員	sick personnel; person on the sick list; patient
病因	cause of disease; pathogen
病因學	pathological science (TCM)
病國殃民	to damage the country and cause suffering to the people (idiom)
病夫	sick man
病媒	(epidemiology) vector
病室	infirmary; ward; sickroom
病害	plant disease
病家	a patient and his family
病容	sickly look
病床	hospital bed; sickbed
病弱	sick and weak; sickly; invalid
病從口入	Illness enters by the mouth (idiom). Mind what you eat!
病從口入，禍從口出	Illness enters by the mouth, trouble comes out by the mouth (idiom). A loose tongue may cause a lot of trouble.
病徵	symptom (of a disease)
病急亂投醫	lit. to turn to any doctor one can find when critically ill (idiom); fig. to try anyone or anything in a crisis
病恥感	stigma attached to a disease
病患	illness; disease; patient
病情	state of an illness; patient's condition
病態	morbid or abnormal state
病態肥胖	morbidly obese (medicine)
病懨懨	looking or feeling sickly; weak and dispirited through illness
病房	ward (of a hospital); sickroom
病故	to die of an illness
病株	diseased or infected plant
病根	an incompletely cured illness; an old complaint
病案	medical record
病榻	sickbed
病機	interpretation of the cause; onset and process of an illness
病歷	medical record; case history
病死	to fall ill and die; to die of illness
病殃殃	looking or feeling sickly
病殘	sick or disabled; invalid; disability
病毒	virus
病毒學	virology (study of viruses)
病毒學家	virologist (person who studies viruses)
病毒式營銷	viral marketing
病毒性	viral
病毒性營銷	viral marketing
病毒性肝炎	viral hepatitis
病毒感染	viral infection
病毒營銷	viral marketing
病毒科	virus family
病毒血症	viremia
病民害國	to damage the people and harm the country (idiom)
病民蠱國	to damage the people and harm the country (idiom)
病況	state of an illness; patient's condition
病源	cause of disease
病灶	(medicine) lesion; focus of disease; nidus
病狀	symptom (of a disease)
病理	pathology
病理學	pathology
病理學家	pathologist
病病歪歪	sick and weak; feeble and listless
病病殃殃	seriously ill; in fragile health
病症	disease; illness
病痛	slight illness; indisposition; ailment
病癒	to recover (from an illness)
病秧子	(dialect) sickly person
病程	course of disease
病篤	critically ill; on one's deathbed
病者	sick person; patient
病脈	abnormal pulse
病苦	pains (of illness); sufferings (esp. in Buddhism)
病菌	harmful bacteria; pathogenic bacteria; germs
病號	sick personnel; person on the sick list; patient
病號服	hospital gown
病蟲	plant diseases and insect pests
病蟲害	plant diseases and insect pests
病蟲害綠色防控	green pest prevention and control; environmentally friendly methods of pest control and prevention
病變	pathological changes; lesion; diseased (kidney, cornea etc)
病象	symptom (of a disease)
病逝	to die of illness
病邪	pathogeny (cause of disease) in TCM
病重	seriously ill
病院	specialized hospital
病魔	serious illness
症	disease; illness
症候	illness; disease
症候群	(Tw) syndrome
症狀	symptom (of an illness)
症狀性	symptomatic
症象	symptom
痊	to recover (from illness)
痊可	(literary) to recover completely (from illness or injury)
痊癒	to recover completely (from illness or injury)
痌	moaning in pain
痍	bruise; sores
痎	(archaic) tertian malaria
痎瘧	(TCM) tertian malaria
痏	a bruise or contusion
痒	to itch; to tickle
痓	(TCM) wind-related disease characterized by spasms, convulsions and stiffness
痔	piles; hemorrhoid
痔瘡	hemorrhoid
痕	scar; traces
痕跡	vestige; mark; trace
痗	disease caused by anxiety
痘	pimple; pustule
痘痂	pockmark; smallpox scab
痘痕	pockmark
痘痘	pimple; zit; (by extension) acne
痘瘢	pock mark
痘皰	pimple; acne
痘苗	vaccine
痙	spasm
痙攣	to jerk; to contort; spasm
痚	asthma; difficulty in breathing
痛	ache; pain; sorrow
痛不欲生	to be so in pain as to not want to live
痛切	(literary) deeply felt; heartfelt (esp. involving grief or remorse)
痛哭	to cry bitterly
痛哭流涕	weeping bitter tears
痛失	to suffer the painful loss of (a loved one etc)
痛定思痛	to think of the pain when the pain is gone (idiom)
痛心	grieved; pained
痛心疾首	bitter and hateful (idiom); to grieve and lament (over sth)
痛快	delighted; to one's heart's content; straightforward
痛快淋漓	joyous; hearty; spirited
痛性痙攣	(muscle) cramp
痛恨	to detest; to loathe; to abhor
痛惜	to lament
痛惡	to detest; to abhor
痛感	to feel deeply; acute suffering
痛扁	to beat (sb) up
痛打	to beat sb soundly
痛批	to severely criticize
痛擊	to deliver a punishing attack; to deal a heavy blow
痛改前非	completely correcting one's former misdeeds (idiom); to repent past mistakes and turn over a new leaf
痛斥	to criticize harshly; to denounce; to attack viciously
痛楚	pain; anguish; suffering
痛毆	to beat sb up
痛痛快快	immediately; without a moment's hesitation; with alacrity
痛癢	pain and itch; sufferings; importance
痛砭	to strongly criticize
痛砭時弊	to strongly criticize the evils of the day
痛經	period pain; menstrual cramps; dysmenorrhea
痛經假	menstrual leave
痛罵	to bawl out; to reprimand severely
痛腳	(fig.) sore spot
痛苦	pain; suffering; painful
痛處	sore spot; place that hurts
痛覺	sense of pain
痛車	(ACG) car decorated with images of characters from anime, manga etc (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 痛車 "itasha")
痛風	gout
痛飲	to drink one's fill
痛點	pain point; sore point
痜	bald
痞	constipation; lump in the abdomen
痞子	ruffian; hooligan
痞子蔡	Rowdy Cai (1969-), Taiwanese Internet writer
痠	to ache; to be sore
痡	sick; disabled
痢	dysentery
痢疾	dysentery
痣	birthmark; mole
痤	acne
痤瘡	acne
痦	(flat) mole
痦子	nevus; mole; birthmark
痧	cholera
痭	menorrhagia
痯	ill-looking
痰	phlegm; spittle
痰液	saliva; spittle
痰盂	spittoon
痱	prickly heat
痱子	miliaria (type of skin disease); prickly heat; sweat rash
痲	used in 痲痺|痲痹[ma2 bi4]; used in 痲風|痲风[ma2 feng1]
痳	hernia; urinary hesitancy; erroneous variant of 痲[ma2]
痴	imbecile; sentimental; stupid
痴人說夢	lunatic ravings; nonsense
痴呆	stupid; dull; (medicine) dementia
痴呆症	dementia
痴心	infatuation
痴心妄想	to be carried away by one's wishful thinking (idiom)
痴想	to daydream; wishful thinking; pipe dream
痴漢	molester (loanword from Japanese "chikan"); idiot; fool
痴痴	foolish; stupid; lost in thought
痴笑	to giggle foolishly; to titter
痴迷	infatuated; obsessed
痴醉	to be fascinated; to be spellbound
痴長	to not be wiser despite being older
痴騃	stupid; foolish
痵	nervous start in sleep
痺	paralysis; numbness
痺證	localized pain disorder (in Chinese medicine); arthralgia syndrome
痻	to be ill
痼	obstinate disease; (of passion, hobbies) long-term
痼疾	chronic disease
痼癖	addiction
痼習	inveterate habit
痾	(literary) disease; also pr. [e1]
痿	atrophy
瘀	hematoma (internal blood clot)
瘀傷	to become bruised; bruising; bruise
瘀斑	(medicine) ecchymosis; bruising
瘀滯	(in Chinese medicine) stasis (of blood or other fluids)
瘀血	clotted blood; extravasated blood (leaking into surrounding tissue)
瘀青	bruise; contusion
瘀點	petechia (medicine)
瘁	care-worn; distressed; tired
瘂	mute, incapable of speech; same as 啞|哑[ya3]
瘃	chilblain
瘈	furious; hydrophobia; madness
瘉	to heal
瘊	wart
瘊子	wart
瘋	insane; mad; wild
瘋人院	insane asylum; mental hospital
瘋傳	to spread like wildfire; to go viral
瘋子	madman; lunatic
瘋牛病	mad cow disease (bovine spongiform encephalopathy)
瘋犬	mad dog; rabid dog
瘋狂	crazy; frenzied; wild
瘋狗	rabid dog; (fig.) vicious dog; aggressive dog
瘋猶精	(slang) person who is blindly pro-Israel
瘋瘋癲癲	deranged; erratic
瘋癲	insane; crazy
瘋話	crazy talk; ravings; nonsense
瘋魔	mad; insane; to be fascinated; to fascinate
瘌	scabies; scald-head
瘍	ulcers; sores
瘏	be injured; ill (of animals)
瘐	to maltreat (as prisoners)
瘐斃	to die of hunger or disease (of a prisoner)
瘐死	to die of hunger or disease (of a prisoner)
瘓	used in 癱瘓|瘫痪[tan1 huan4]
瘕	obstruction in the intestine
瘖	mute
瘙	itch; old term for scabies; Taiwan pr. [sao1]
瘙癢	to itch; itchiness
瘙癢病	scrapie (prion disease of sheep)
瘙癢症	pruritus; itchy skin
瘚	to hiccup; the humours of the body
瘛	used in 瘛瘲|瘛疭[chi4 zong4]; Taiwan pr. [qi4]
瘛瘲	(TCM) clonic convulsion
瘜	a polypus
瘝	incapacitated; inefficient
瘞	bury; sacrifice
瘟	epidemic; pestilence; plague
瘟疫	plague; pestilence
瘟神	demon personifying pestilence
瘠	barren; lean
瘠薄	(of land) infertile; barren
瘡	sore; skin ulcer
瘡口	wound; open sore
瘡疤	scar
瘡痂	scab
瘡痍	wound; skin ulcer; (fig.) the desolation of trauma
瘡痕	scar; scarred skin
瘡瘍	sore; skin ulcer
瘢	mark; scar on the skin
瘢痕	scar
瘤	tumor
瘤子	tumor
瘤鴨	(bird species of China) knob-billed duck (Sarkidiornis melanotos)
瘥	to recover from disease
瘦	thin; to lose weight; (of clothing) tight
瘦伶仃	emaciated; scrawny
瘦削	slim
瘦子	thin person
瘦小	slightly-built; petite
瘦巴巴	thin; scrawny; emaciated
瘦弱	thin and weak
瘦死的駱駝比馬大	lit. even a scrawny camel is bigger than a horse (idiom)
瘦肉	lean meat
瘦肉精	leanness-enhancing agent (for livestock)
瘦身	to lose weight (intentionally); to slim down
瘦長	slim
瘦骨伶仃	(idiom) emaciated; scrawny
瘦骨嶙峋	skinny; emaciated (idiom)
瘦骨棱棱	bony; skinny
瘧	used in 瘧子|疟子[yao4 zi5]
瘧原蟲	plasmodium (malaria parasite)
瘧子	(coll.) malaria
瘧疾	malaria
瘧疾病	malaria
瘧蚊	Anopheles (type of mosquito)
瘨	convulsions; crazy
瘩	used in 疙瘩[ge1 da5]
瘭	whitlow
瘮	to terrify
瘮人	scary
瘮得慌	frightening; frightened
瘯	(skin disease)
瘰	used in 瘰癧|瘰疬[luo3 li4]
瘰癧	scrofula (in Chinese medicine)
瘰螈	triton
瘲	used in 瘛瘲|瘛疭[chi4 zong4]
瘳	to convalesce; to recover; to heal
瘴	(bound form) miasma
瘴氣	miasma
瘴癘	(historical) disease attributed to miasma
瘵	(literary) disease (esp. tuberculosis)
瘸	lame
瘸子	lame person (colloquial)
瘸幫	Crips (gang)
瘸腿	crippled; lame; a cripple
瘻	fistula; ulceration
瘻管	fistula
瘼	distress; sickness
癀	used in 癀病[huang2 bing4]
癀病	(dialect) anthrax in livestock
療	to treat; to cure; therapy
療傷	healing; to heal; to make healthy again
療效	healing efficacy; healing effect
療法	therapy; treatment
療癒	to heal; therapy
療程	course of treatment
療養	to get well; to heal; to recuperate
療養所	sanitorium; convalescent hospital
療養院	sanatorium
癃	infirmity; retention of urine
癃閉	illness having to do with obstruction of urine flow
癆	tuberculosis
癆病	tuberculosis (TCM)
癆病鬼	(derog.) tubercular person; a consumptive
癆瘵	(literary) tuberculosis
癇	epilepsy; insanity
癈	disabled
癉	(disease)
癌	cancer; (esp.) carcinoma
癌前期	precancerous stage
癌症	cancer
癌細胞	cancer cell
癌變	to become cancerous; transformation to malignancy (of body cells)
癍	abnormal pigment deposit on the skin
癐	(literary) serious illness; (Cantonese) variant of 攰[gui4]
癒	to heal
癒傷組織	(botany) callus
癒合	(of a wound) to heal
癒復	recovery (after illness)
癔	used in 癔病[yi4 bing4] and 癔症[yi4 zheng4]
癔病	hysteria
癔症	hysteria
癖	habit; hobby
癖好	one's passion; one's obsession
癘	ulcer; plague
癙	illness caused by worry
癜	erythema; leucoderm
癟	deflated; shriveled; sunken
癟三	(Wu dialect) bum
癟螺痧	cholera (with dehydration)
癟陷	deflated
癠	sick; diseased
癡傻	stupid; foolish
癡情	infatuation
癢	to itch; to tickle
癢癢	to itch; to tickle
癢癢撓	backscratcher (made from bamboo etc)
癤	pimple; sore; boil
癤子	(medicine) boil; furuncle; knot (in wood)
癥	abdominal tumor; bowel obstruction; (fig.) sticking point
癥結	hard lump in the abdomen (in Chinese medicine); crux of an issue
癧	used in 瘰癧|瘰疬[luo3 li4]
癩	scabies; skin disease
癩瘡	favus (skin disease)
癩皮狗	mangy dog; (fig.) loathsome person
癩皮病	pellagra; scabies
癩蛤蟆	toad
癩蛤蟆想吃天鵝肉	lit. the toad wants to eat swan meat (idiom)
癪	spasms; convulsions; hysteria
癬	ringworm; Taiwan pr. [xian3]
癭	goiter; knob on tree
癮	addiction; craving
癮君子	addict (esp. a heavy smoker or drug addict, often jocular or disparaging)
癮頭	craving; addiction
癯	thin; emaciated; worn
癯瘦	thin; emaciated
癰	carbuncle
癱	paralyzed
癱子	paralyzed person
癱瘓	(medicine) to suffer paralysis
癱軟	limp; weak
癲	mentally deranged; crazy
癲狂	deranged; mad; cracked
癲癇	epilepsy
癲癇發作	epileptic seizure
癶	Kangxi radical 105, known as 登字頭|登字头[deng1 zi4 tou2]
癸	tenth of the ten Heavenly Stems 十天干[shi2 tian1 gan1]; tenth in order
癸丑	fiftieth year J2 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1973 or 2033
癸亥	sixtieth year J12 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1983 or 2043
癸卯	fortieth year J4 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1963 or 2023
癸巳	thirtieth year J6 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2013 or 2073
癸未	twentieth year J8 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2003 or 2063
癸水	menstruation; woman's period
癸酉	tenth year J10 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1993 or 2053
登	to scale (a height); to ascend; to mount
登上	to climb over; to ascend onto; to mount
登仙	to become immortal; big promotion; die
登入	(computing) to log in
登出	to log out (computer); to publish; to be published
登出來	to publish; to appear (in print)
登嘉樓	Terengganu, state of Malaysia
登基	to ascend the throne
登堂入室	(lit.) from the main room, enter the inner chamber (idiom)
登報	to publish in the newspapers
登場	to go on stage; fig. to appear on the scene
登大寶	to ascend to the throne
登封市	Dengfeng, a county-level city in Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
登山	to climb a mountain; climbing; mountaineering
登山家	mountaineer
登山扣	carabiner
登山杖	trekking pole
登山車	mountain bike (Tw)
登岸	to go ashore; to disembark
登峰	to climb a mountain; to scale a peak; mountain climbing
登峰造極	to reach great heights (in technical skills or scholastic achievements)
登廣告	to advertise
登徒子	Master Dengtu, a famous historical lecherous character
登愣	ta da!; wow!
登時	immediately; at once
登月	to go (up) to the moon
登極	to ascend the throne
登機	to board a plane
登機入口	boarding gate
登機口	departure gate (aviation)
登機廊橋	air bridge; aircraft boarding bridge
登機手續	(airport) check-in; boarding formalities
登機手續櫃檯	check-in counter
登機樓	airport terminal
登機橋	boarding gate (at airport); aircraft boarding bridge
登機牌	boarding pass
登機證	(HK, Tw) boarding pass
登機門	boarding gate
登臨	to visit places famous for their scenery
登臺表演	to go on stage
登記	to register (one's name)
登記名	to register one's name; account name (on a computer)
登記員	registrar
登記用戶	registered user
登記表	registration form
登載	to publish (in newspapers or magazines)
登輪	to board a ship
登遐	death of an emperor
登錄	to register; to log in
登門	to visit sb at home
登陸	to land; to come ashore; to make landfall (of typhoon etc)
登陸月球	to land on the moon
登陸艦	landing craft
登革熱	dengue fever; Singapore hemorrhagic fever
登革疫苗	dengue vaccine
登革病毒	dengue virus
登頂	(lit. and fig.) to get to the top
登高	to go up to a high place
登高一呼	to make a clarion call; to make a public appeal
登高望遠	to stand tall and see far (idiom); taking the long and broad view
發	to send out; to show (one's feeling); to issue
發交	to issue and deliver (to people)
發亮	to shine; shiny
發人深思	(idiom) thought-provoking; to give one food for thought
發人深省	to provide food for thought (idiom); thought-provoking
發令	to issue an order
發令槍	starting pistol
發件人	(mail or email) sender
發作	to flare up; to break out
發作性嗜睡病	narcolepsy
發信	to post a letter
發光	to emit light; to shine; to glow; to glisten; to be luminous
發光二極管	light-emitting diode (LED)
發光二極體	(Tw) light-emitting diode (LED)
發光強度	luminous intensity
發兵	to dispatch an army; to send troops
發冷	to feel a chill (as an emotional response)
發出	to issue (an order, decree etc); to send out; to dispatch
發出指示	to issue instructions
發刊	to publish; to put out (a document)
發刊詞	foreword; preface (to a publication)
發力	to exert oneself; to apply force
發動	to start; to launch; to unleash
發動力	motive power
發動機	engine; motor
發包	to put out to contract
發卡	to issue a card; (slang) to reject a guy or a girl; to chuck
發呆	to stare blankly; to be stunned; to be lost in thought
發售	to sell
發問	to question; to ask; to raise a question
發喉急	to get in a rage
發喪	to hold a funeral
發噓聲	to hiss (as a sign of displeasure)
發回	to send back; to return
發國難財	to profiteer in a time of national calamity
發報	to send a message
發報人	sender (of a message)
發夢	to dream; to have a dream; (fig.) to indulge in wishful thinking
發奮	to make an effort; to push for sth; to work hard
發奮圖強	to make an effort to become strong (idiom); determined to do better
發奮有為	to prove one's worth through firm resolve (idiom)
發好人卡	(slang) to reject sb (by labeling them a "nice guy")
發威	to unleash one's power; (of an animal) to go on a rampage; (of a typhoon, earthquake etc) to wreak havoc; (of a figure of authority) to erupt in anger; to assert one's dominance
發家	to lay down a family fortune; to get rich; to become prosperous
發射	to shoot (a projectile); to fire (a rocket); to launch
發射井	launching silo
發射器	radio transmitter
發射場	launch site
發射星雲	emission nebula
發射機	transmitter
發射機應答器	transponder; electronic device that responds to a radio code
發射站	launch pad (for rocket or projectile)
發射臺	launchpad; (radio, TV) transmitter
發展	development; growth; to develop
發展中	developing; under development; in the pipeline
發展中國家	developing country
發展商	(HK) (real estate etc) developer
發展研究中心	Development Research Center (PRC State Council institution)
發工資日	payday
發布	to release; to issue; to announce
發布會	press conference; news conference; product launch event
發帖	to post (an item on a forum)
發怒	to get angry
發怔	baffled; nonplussed
發急	to fret; to get impatient; to become anxious
發怵	to feel terrified; to grow apprehensive
發情	(zoology) (of a female) to be in heat; (of a male) to be in rut
發情期	the breeding season (zool.)
發想	to come up with an idea; generation of ideas; inspiration
發愁	to worry; to fret; to be anxious
發愣	to stare blankly; to be in a daze
發慌	to become agitated; to feel nervous
發憤	to make a determined effort
發憤圖強	to be strongly determined to succeed (idiom)
發憤忘食	so dedicated as to forget one's meals (idiom)
發懵	to feel dizzy; to be confused; to be at a loss
發抖	to tremble; to shake; to shiver
發掘	to excavate; to explore; (fig.) to unearth
發揚	to develop; to make full use of
發揚光大	to develop and promote; to carry forward
發揚踔厲	to be full of vigor (idiom)
發揮	to display; to exhibit; to bring out implicit or innate qualities
發改委	abbr. for 國家發展和改革委員會|国家发展和改革委员会, PRC National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), formed in 2003
發放	to provide; to give; to grant
發散	to disperse; to diverge
發文	to issue a document; document issued by an authority
發明	to invent; an invention
發明人	inventor
發明創造	to invent and innovate; inventions and innovations
發明家	inventor
發明者	inventor
發昏	to faint
發春	in heat
發暈	to feel dizzy
發暗	to darken; to become tarnished
發案	occurrence (refers to time and place esp. of a criminal act)
發條	clockwork spring (used to power a watch or windup toy etc)
發棵	budding
發榜	to publish a roll-call of successful candidates
發橫財	to make easy money; to make a fortune; to line one's pockets
發毛	to rant and rave; to be scared, upset (Beijing dialect)
發氣	to get angry
發水	to flood
發汗	to sweat
發泡	to produce foam; (of a beverage) fizzy; sparkling
發泡劑	foaming agent; blowing agent
發泡膠	expanded polystyrene (EPS); styrofoam
發洩	to give vent to (one's feelings)
發源	to rise; to originate; source
發源地	place of origin; birthplace; source
發火	to catch fire; to ignite; to detonate
發炎	to become inflamed; inflammation
發煙彈	smoke bomb; smoke grenade
發熱	to have a high temperature; feverish; unable to think calmly
發熱伴血小板減少綜合徵	severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS)
發燒	to have a high temperature (from illness); to have a fever
發燒友	fan; zealot
發燙	burning hot
發牌	to deal (cards)
發牢騷	to whine; to be grouchy
發狂	crazy; mad; madly
發獎	to award a prize
發現	to notice; to become aware of; to discover; to find; to detect
發現物	a find
發現號	Space Shuttle Discovery
發球	(tennis etc) to serve; (golf) to tee off
發球區	teeing ground (golf)
發生	to happen; to occur; to take place; to arise (e.g. 發生問題|发生问题[fa1 sheng1 wen4 ti2] "a problem arises")
發生率	rate of occurrence
發生關係	to have sex with sb
發病	(of an illness) to occur; (of a person) to get sick; to fall ill
發病率	incidence of a disease; disease rate
發痛	to ache; to be sore; to feel painful
發瘋	to go mad; to go crazy; to lose one's mind
發癢	to tickle; to itch
發癲	to go crazy; to lose one's mind
發白	to turn pale; to lose color; to go white
發直	to stare; to look blank; to be fixed (of eyes)
發睏	to get sleepy
發短信	to send a text message
發神經	(coll.) to go crazy; to lose it; demented
發祥	to give rise to (sth good); to emanate from
發祥地	the birthplace (of sth good); the cradle (e.g. of art)
發票	invoice; receipt; bill
發福	to put on weight; to get fat (a sign of prosperity, so a compliment)
發稿	(of a publisher) to send a manuscript off to the printer
發窘	to feel embarrassment; disconcerted; embarrassed
發端	to originate; to initiate; beginning; origin
發笑	to burst out laughing; to laugh
發粉	baking powder
發糕	fa gao, a type of steamed sponge cake, usu. sweetened, commonly consumed at Chinese New Year
發紅	to turn red; to blush; to flush
發紺	cyanosis (blue skin due to lack of oxygen in blood)
發給	to issue; to grant; to distribute
發聲	to produce a sound; to vocalize
發聲器	sound device
發聲器官	vocal organs; vocal cords
發聲法	intonation
發聾振聵	lit. so loud that even the deaf can hear (idiom); rousing even the apathetic
發育	to develop; to mature; growth
發育期	puberty; period of development
發育生物學	developmental biology
發胖	to put on weight; to get fat
發脆	to become brittle; to become crisp
發脫口齒	diction; enunciation
發脹	to swell up; swelling
發脾氣	to lose one's temper; to fly into a rage; to throw a tantrum
發腮	(of a cat) to develop a fuller, rounder face; (by extension, of a human) to develop a broader, fuller lower face
發自	to evolve from
發臭	smelly; to smell bad
發芽	(of a seed) to germinate; (of a plant) to sprout; to bud
發落	to deal with (an offender)
發蒙	(old) to instruct the young; to teach a child to read and write
發蔫	to wilt; to droop; to appear listless
發薪	to pay wages or salary
發薪日	payday
發虛	to feel weak; to be diffident
發號施令	to boss people around (idiom)
發行	to publish; to issue; to release; to distribute
發行人	publisher; issuer
發行備忘錄	offering memorandum (for public stock issue); publication memorandum
發行商	publisher; distributor; issuer
發行額	(periodical) circulation
發表	to issue; to publish
發表會	press conference; unveiling ceremony; (product) launch
發表演講	to give a speech
發覺	to become aware; to detect; to realize
發言	to make a speech; statement; utterance
發言人	spokesperson
發言權	the right to speak; the right to express one's views
發誓	to vow; to pledge; to swear
發語詞	introductory particle (used at the beginning of a sentence or passage in Classical Chinese)
發財	to get rich
發財樹	money tree (Pachira aquatica)
發財致富	to become rich; enrichment
發財車	(Tw) mini truck; Kei truck
發貨	to dispatch; to send out goods
發貼	to stick sth up (on the wall); to post (on a noticeboard or website)
發起	to originate; to initiate; to launch (an attack, an initiative etc)
發起人	proposer; initiator; founding member
發足	(literary) to set out on foot
發跡	to make one's mark; to go up in the world; to make one's fortune
發車	departure (of a coach or train); to dispatch a vehicle
發軔	to set (sth) afoot; to initiate; beginning
發軟	to weaken; to go soft (at the knees)
發送	to transmit; to dispatch
發送器	transmitter
發運	(of goods) to dispatch; shipment; shipping
發達	well-developed; flourishing; to develop; to promote; to expand
發達國	developed nation
發達國家	developed nation
發達地區	developed area
發配	to send away to serve a penal sentence
發酒瘋	to get wildly drunk
發酵	to ferment
發難	to rise in revolt; to raise difficult questions
發電	to generate electricity; to send a telegram
發電廠	power plant
發電機	electricity generator; dynamo
發電站	power station
發電量	(power station, solar panel etc) output; capacity
發霉	to become moldy
發音	to pronounce; pronunciation; to emit sound
發音器官	vocal organs; vocal cords
發音體	sound producing object (soundboard, vibrating string, membrane etc)
發願	to vow
發顫	to shiver
發飄	to feel shaky; to feel wobbly
發飆	to flip out; to act out violently
發騷	horny; lecherous
發麵	to leaven dough; to make bread
發麻	to feel numb
白	white; in vain; free of charge
白丁	(literary) commoner; unlearned person (in former times, one who had not obtained an official degree)
白三烯	leukotriene (biochemistry)
白乳膠	white glue
白乾兒	alcoholic spirit; strong white rice wine
白事	funeral; to explain (literary)
白人	white man or woman; Caucasian
白令海	Bering Sea
白令海峽	the Bering Strait (between Siberia and Alaska)
白住	to live (somewhere) for free
白俄	Belarus; abbr. for 白俄羅斯|白俄罗斯[Bai2 e2 luo2 si1]
白俄羅斯	Belarus
白俄羅斯人	Byelorussian (person)
白兀鷲	(bird species of China) Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus)
白先勇	Bai Xianyong (1937-), Chinese-Taiwanese-US novelist of Hui descent
白兔	white rabbit; (fig.) (slang) breast
白內障	cataract (ophthalmology)
白冠噪鶥	(bird species of China) white-crested laughingthrush (Garrulax leucolophus)
白冠攀雀	(bird species of China) white-crowned penduline tit (Remiz coronatus)
白冠燕尾	(bird species of China) white-crowned forktail (Enicurus leschenaulti)
白冠長尾雉	(bird species of China) Reeves's pheasant (Syrmaticus reevesii)
白冰冰	Pai Ping-ping (1955–), Taiwanese singer, actress and television host
白刃	naked sword
白刃戰	hand-to-hand fighting
白切雞	Cantonese poached chicken, known as "white cut chicken"
白化病	albinism
白化症	albinism
白匪	white bandit (i.e. Nationalist soldier)
白區	White area (territory controlled by the KMT during the Second Revolutionary War, 1927–1937)
白卷	blank exam paper
白口鐵	white iron
白吃	to eat without paying; to eat for free
白吃白喝	to freeload
白名單	whitelist
白唇鹿	Cervus albirostris (white-lipped deer)
白喉	diphtheria
白喉冠鵯	(bird species of China) puff-throated bulbul (Alophoixus pallidus)
白喉噪鶥	(bird species of China) white-throated laughingthrush (Pterorhinus albogularis)
白喉姬鶲	(bird species of China) white-gorgeted flycatcher (Anthipes monileger)
白喉扇尾鶲	(bird species of China) white-throated fantail (Rhipidura albicollis)
白喉斑秧雞	(bird species of China) slaty-legged crake (Rallina eurizonoides)
白喉林鶯	(bird species of China) lesser whitethroat (Curruca curruca)
白喉林鶲	(bird species of China) brown-chested jungle flycatcher (Cyornis brunneatus)
白喉桿菌	Klebs-Loeddler bacillus (the diphtheria bacterium)
白喉毒素	diphtheria toxin
白喉犀鳥	(bird species of China) Austen's brown hornbill (Anorrhinus austeni)
白喉短翅鶇	(bird species of China) lesser shortwing (Brachypteryx leucophris)
白喉石䳭	(bird species of China) white-throated bush chat (Saxicola insignis)
白喉磯鶇	(bird species of China) white-throated rock thrush (Monticola gularis)
白喉紅尾鴝	(bird species of China) white-throated redstart (Phoenicurus schisticeps)
白喉紅臀鵯	(bird species of China) sooty-headed bulbul (Pycnonotus aurigaster)
白喉針尾雨燕	(bird species of China) white-throated needletail (Hirundapus caudacutus)
白嘴端鳳頭燕鷗	(bird species of China) sandwich tern (Thalasseus sandvicensis)
白噪聲	white noise
白城市	Baicheng, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
白堊	chalk
白堊世	Cretaceous (geological period 140-65m years ago)
白堊紀	Cretaceous (geological period 140-65m years ago)
白報紙	newsprint
白塔區	Baita, a district of Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
白塔寺	Baita temple in Lanzhou 蘭州|兰州[Lan2 zhou1]
白夜	white night
白大衣高血壓	white coat hypertension; white coat syndrome
白大褂	white lab coat (worn by medical staff); (metonym) clinician; medical professional
白天	daytime; during the day; day
白奴	white slave
白嫖	to visit a prostitute without paying
白嫩	(of skin etc) fair; delicate
白子	white Go chess piece; bee pupa; albino
白字	Chinese character incorrectly written or read aloud in place of another character
白宮	White House
白宮群英	The West Wing (US TV series)
白富美	"Ms Perfect" (i.e. fair-skinned, rich and beautiful) (Internet slang)
白尾地鴉	(bird species of China) Xinjiang ground jay (Podoces biddulphi)
白尾梢虹雉	(bird species of China) Sclater's monal (Lophophorus sclateri)
白尾海鵰	(bird species of China) white-tailed eagle (Haliaeetus albicilla)
白尾藍仙鶲	(bird species of China) white-tailed flycatcher (Leucoptilon concretum)
白尾藍地鴝	(bird species of China) white-tailed robin (Myiomela leucura)
白尾鳾	(bird species of China) white-tailed nuthatch (Sitta himalayensis)
白尾鷂	(bird species of China) hen harrier (Circus cyaneus)
白尾鸏	(bird species of China) white-tailed tropicbird (Phaethon lepturus)
白居易	Bai Juyi (772-846), Tang dynasty poet
白屈菜	greater celandine
白山宗	Sufi sect of Islam in central Asia
白山市	Baishan, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
白山派	Sufi sect of Islam in central Asia
白崇禧	Bai Chongxi (1893-1966), a leader of Guangxi warlord faction, top Nationalist general, played important role in Chiang Kaishek's campaigns 1926-1949
白左	naive, self-righteous Western liberals (neologism c. 2015)
白巧	white chocolate (abbr. for 白巧克力[bai2 qiao3 ke4 li4])
白巧克力	white chocolate
白布	plain white cloth; calico
白帝城	Baidi town in Chongqing 重慶|重庆, north of the Changjiang, an important tourist attraction
白帶	leukorrhea
白帶魚	largehead hairtail; beltfish; Trichiurus lepturus
白帽子	(cybersecurity) white hat hacker
白平衡	(photography) white balance
白廳	Whitehall
白手套	white glove
白手起家	(idiom) to build up from nothing; to start from scratch
白托	day care for the elderly (abbr. of 白天托管[bai2 tian1 tuo1 guan3])
白扯淡	(coll.) to talk rubbish
白揀	a cheap choice; to choose sth that costs nothing
白描	line drawing in traditional ink-and-brush style
白搭	no use; no good
白文	the text of an annotated book; an unannotated edition of a book
白斑尾柳鶯	(bird species of China) Kloss's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus ogilviegranti)
白斑病	vitiligo
白斑症	vitiligo
白斑翅雪雀	(bird species of China) white-winged snowfinch (Montifringilla nivalis)
白斑軍艦鳥	(bird species of China) lesser frigatebird (Fregata ariel)
白斑黑石䳭	(bird species of China) pied bush chat (Saxicola caprata)
白斬雞	Cantonese poached chicken, known as "white cut chicken"
白旄黃鉞	white banner and yellow battle-ax (idiom); refers to military expedition
白族	Bai ethnic group
白旗	white flag
白日	daytime; sun; time
白日做夢	to daydream; to indulge in wishful thinking
白日夢	daydream; reverie
白晝	daytime
白月光	(slang) the one that got away
白朗縣	Bainang, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
白木耳	white fungus (Tremella fuciformis); snow fungus
白朮	the rhizome of large-headed atractylodes (Atractylodes macrocephaia)
白板	whiteboard; tabula rasa; blank slate
白板筆	whiteboard marker; dry-erase marker
白枕鶴	(bird species of China) white-naped crane (Antigone vipio)
白果	ginkgo
白條	IOU; informal document acknowledging a debt
白棉紙	stencil tissue paper
白楊	poplar
白楊樹	white poplar (Populus bonatii)
白榴石	leucite
白樸	Bai Pu (1226-1306), Yuan dynasty dramatist in the 雜劇|杂剧 tradition of musical comedy, one of the Four Great Yuan dramatists 元曲四大家
白殭蠶	the larva of silkworm with batrytis
白毛	white hair (of animals)
白毛女	The White Haired Girl (1950), one of the first PRC films
白水	plain water
白水晶	rock crystal (mineral)
白水江自然保護區	Baishuijiang Nature Reserve, Gansu
白水泥	white cement
白水縣	Baishui, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
白求恩	Norman Bethune (1890-1939), Canadian doctor, worked for communists in Spanish civil war and for Mao in Yan'an, where he died of blood poisoning
白沙瓦	Peshawar, city in north Pakistan
白沙黎族自治縣	Baisha Lizu autonomous county, Hainan
白沫	froth; foam (coming from the mouth)
白河縣	Baihe, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
白洋淀	Baiyang Lake in Hebei
白洞	white hole (cosmology)
白活	to waste one's life; to fail to make the most of one's life
白海	White Sea
白淨	(of skin) fair and clear
白湯	clear soup; white broth, also called 奶湯|奶汤[nai3 tang1]
白澤	Bai Ze or White Marsh, legendary creature of ancient China
白濁	gonorrhea (TCM term); more commonly known as 淋病[lin4 bing4]
白灼	to blanch (thin slices of vegetables, fish etc)
白煤	anthracite; hard coal; white coal
白熊	polar bear; white bear
白熱	white heat; incandescence
白熱化	to turn white-hot; to intensify; to reach a climax
白熾	white heat; incandescence
白熾燈	incandescent lamp
白爛	(slang) stupid; ridiculous
白牌	(of a product) unbranded
白狐	arctic fox
白玄鷗	(bird species of China) white tern (Gygis alba)
白玉	white jade; tofu (by analogy)
白玉縣	Baiyü, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
白玉菇	white beech mushroom (Hypsizygus tessellatus, cultivated white variety)
白班	day shift
白班兒	day shift
白琵鷺	(bird species of China) Eurasian spoonbill (Platalea leucorodia)
白璧微瑕	a slight blemish
白璧無瑕	impeccable moral integrity
白瓷	blanc de chine (porcelain)
白痢	dysentery characterized by white mucous stool; white diarrhea
白痴	idiocy; idiot
白癜風	vitiligo
白白	in vain; to no purpose; for nothing
白皙	(of complexion or skin) fair and clear
白皮書	white paper (e.g. containing proposals for new legislation)
白皮杉醇	piceatannol C14H12O4
白皮松	lacebark pine
白皮豬	(derog.) white person; white pig
白目	(slang) stupid; moron
白相人	(dialect) rogue; hoodlum
白眉地鶇	(bird species of China) Siberian thrush (Geokichla sibirica)
白眉姬鶲	(bird species of China) yellow-rumped flycatcher (Ficedula zanthopygia)
白眉山雀	(bird species of China) white-browed tit (Poecile superciliosus)
白眉山鷓鴣	(bird species of China) white-necklaced partridge (Arborophila gingica)
白眉扇尾鶲	(bird species of China) white-browed fantail (Rhipidura aureola)
白眉拳	Pak Mei or Bak Mei - "White Eyebrow" (Chinese Martial Art)
白眉林鴝	(bird species of China) white-browed bush robin (Tarsiger indicus)
白眉棕啄木鳥	(bird species of China) white-browed piculet (Sasia ochracea)
白眉歌鶇	(bird species of China) redwing (Turdus iliacus)
白眉秧雞	(bird species of China) white-browed crake (Porzana cinerea)
白眉藍姬鶲	(bird species of China) ultramarine flycatcher (Ficedula superciliaris)
白眉赤眼	for no reason (idiom)
白眉雀鶥	(bird species of China) white-browed fulvetta (Fulvetta vinipectus)
白眉鴨	(bird species of China) garganey (Spatula querquedula)
白眉鵐	(bird species of China) Tristram's bunting (Emberiza tristrami)
白眉鶇	(bird species of China) eyebrowed thrush (Turdus obscurus)
白眶斑翅鶥	(bird species of China) spectacled barwing (Actinodura ramsayi)
白眶雀鶥	(bird species of China) Nepal fulvetta (Alcippe nipalensis)
白眶鴉雀	(bird species of China) spectacled parrotbill (Suthora conspicillata)
白眶鶲鶯	(bird species of China) white-spectacled warbler (Phylloscopus intermedius)
白眼	to give sb a dirty look; to cast a supercilious glance
白眼河燕	(bird species of China) white-eyed river martin (Pseudochelidon sirintarae)
白眼狼	thankless wretch; an ingrate
白眼珠	white of the eye
白眼鵟鷹	(bird species of China) white-eyed buzzard (Butastur teesa)
白瞎	(dialect) to waste (effort, money etc)
白矮星	white dwarf
白石砬子	national nature reserve at Kuandian 寬甸|宽甸 in Liaoning
白砂糖	white granulated sugar
白砒	white arsenic; arsenic trioxide
白碑	stone tablet without inscription; blank stele
白磷	white phosphorus
白礬	alum
白票	blank vote; abstention
白秋沙鴨	(bird species of China) smew (Mergellus albellus)
白種	the white race
白米	(polished) rice
白米飯	cooked white rice
白粉	face powder; chalk powder; heroin
白粉病	powdery mildew
白粥	plain rice congee
白糖	(refined) white sugar
白紋伊蚊	Asian tiger mosquito (Aedes albopictus)
白紙黑字	(written) in black and white
白素貞	(name of a person) Bai Suzhen, from Madame White Snake
白細胞	white blood cell; leukocyte
白絲	white pantyhose; white stockings
白線	white line (road markings)
白線斑蚊	Aedes albopictus (species of mosquito)
白羅斯	Belarus
白羊	Aries (star sign)
白羊座	Aries (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
白羊朝	Ak Koyunlu or Aq Qoyunlu Turkoman confederation of eastern Iran (c. 1378-c. 1500)
白翅交嘴雀	(bird species of China) two-barred crossbill; white-winged crossbill (Loxia leucoptera)
白翅啄木鳥	(bird species of China) white-winged woodpecker (Dendrocopos leucopterus)
白翅擬蠟嘴雀	(bird species of China) white-winged grosbeak (Mycerobas carnipes)
白翅浮鷗	(bird species of China) white-winged tern (Chlidonias leucopterus)
白翅百靈	(bird species of China) white-winged lark (Melanocorypha leucoptera)
白翅藍鵲	(bird species of China) white-winged magpie (Urocissa whiteheadi)
白翎島	Baengnyeong Island of South Korea, near the Northern Limit Line
白翳	opacity of the cornea (in TCM); cataract
白耳奇鶥	(bird species of China) white-eared sibia (Heterophasia auricularis)
白肉	plain boiled pork; white meat (fish, poultry etc)
白肩鵰	(bird species of China) eastern imperial eagle (Aquila heliaca)
白肩黑䴉	(bird species of China) white-shouldered ibis (Pseudibis davisoni)
白背兀鷲	(bird species of China) white-rumped vulture (Gyps bengalensis)
白背啄木鳥	(bird species of China) white-backed woodpecker (Dendrocopos leucotos)
白背磯鶇	(bird species of China) common rock thrush (Monticola saxatilis)
白胡椒	white peppercorn
白胸翡翠	(bird species of China) white-throated kingfisher (Halcyon smyrnensis)
白胸苦惡鳥	(bird species of China) white-breasted waterhen (Amaurornis phoenicurus)
白胸鴉雀	(bird species of China) white-breasted parrotbill (Paradoxornis ruficeps)
白脫	(loanword) butter
白脫牛奶	buttermilk
白腰叉尾海燕	(bird species of China) Leach's storm petrel (Hydrobates leucorhous)
白腰文鳥	(bird species of China) white-rumped munia (Lonchura striata)
白腰朱頂雀	(bird species of China) common redpoll (Acanthis flammea)
白腰杓鷸	(bird species of China) Eurasian curlew (Numenius arquata)
白腰濱鷸	(bird species of China) white-rumped sandpiper (Calidris fuscicollis)
白腰燕鷗	(bird species of China) Aleutian tern (Onychoprion aleuticus)
白腰草鷸	(bird species of China) green sandpiper (Tringa ochropus)
白腰雪雀	(bird species of China) white-rumped snowfinch (Onychostruthus taczanowskii)
白腰鵲鴝	(bird species of China) white-rumped shama (Copsychus malabaricus)
白腹姬鶲	(bird species of China) blue-and-white flycatcher (Cyanoptila cyanomelana)
白腹幽鶥	(bird species of China) spot-throated babbler (Pellorneum albiventre)
白腹毛腳燕	(bird species of China) Siberian house martin (Delichon lagopodum)
白腹海鵰	(bird species of China) white-bellied sea eagle (Icthyophaga leucogaster)
白腹短翅鴝	(bird species of China) white-bellied redstart (Luscinia phaenicuroides)
白腹軍艦鳥	(bird species of China) Christmas frigatebird (Fregata andrewsi)
白腹錦雞	(bird species of China) Lady Amherst's pheasant (Chrysolophus amherstiae)
白腹隼鵰	(bird species of China) Bonelli's eagle (Aquila fasciata)
白腹鳳鶥	(bird species of China) white-bellied erpornis (Erpornis zantholeuca)
白腹鶇	(bird species of China) pale thrush (Turdus pallidus)
白腹鷂	(bird species of China) eastern marsh harrier (Circus spilonotus)
白腹鷺	(bird species of China) white-bellied heron (Ardea insignis)
白腹黑啄木鳥	(bird species of China) white-bellied woodpecker (Dryocopus javensis)
白腿小隼	(bird species of China) pied falconet (Microhierax melanoleucos)
白臉	white face; face painting in Beijing opera etc
白臉鳾	(bird species of China) Przevalski's nuthatch (Sitta przewalskii)
白臉鷺	(bird species of China) white-faced heron (Egretta novaehollandiae)
白色	white; fig. reactionary; anti-communist
白色人種	the white race
白色家電	white goods (such as refrigerators and washing machines)
白色恐怖	White Terror
白色情人節	White Day
白色戰劑	Agent White
白色體	leucoplast
白芍	root of herbaceous peony (Paeonia lactiflora), used in TCM
白花花	shining white
白花蛇	long-nosed pit viper (agkistrodon acutus)
白花蛇舌草	Hedyotis diffusa
白芷	Dahurian angelica (Angelica dahurica)
白茅	cogongrass (Imperata cylindrica), used as thatching material in China and Indonesia
白茫茫	(of mist, snow, floodwater etc) a vast expanse of whiteness
白茶	white tea
白莧	white amaranth (Amaranthus albus)
白莧紫茄	white amaranth, purple eggplant (idiom); common foodstuff, unpretentious lifestyle
白菜	Chinese cabbage, esp. napa cabbage (Brassica rapa subsp. pekinensis)
白菜價	(coll.) very low price; dirt cheap price
白菜型油菜	a type of rapeseed (Brassica rapa) cultivated for its edible leaves (including varieties like bok choy and choy sum), as well as for oil production and green manure
白菜豆	white kidney beans
白蓮	white lotus (flower); White Lotus society; same as 白蓮教|白莲教
白蓮教	White Lotus society
白薯	sweet potato
白蘇	common perilla
白蘞	Ampelopsis japonica (creeper with root used in TCM)
白蘭地	(loanword) brandy
白蘭瓜	honeydew melon
白蘿蔔	daikon; white radish (Raphanus sativus var. longipinnatus)
白虎	White Tiger (the seven mansions of the west sky)
白虎觀	White Tiger Hall, a Han dynasty palace hall in which the famous Virtuous Discussions Held in White Tiger Hall 白虎通德論|白虎通德论 were held under the aegis of Han Emperor Zhang 漢章帝|汉章帝
白蛇傳	Tale of the White Snake; Madame White Snake
白蛉熱	sandfly fever
白蛋白	albumin
白蝕症	vitiligo
白蟻	termite; white ant
白蠟	white wax from Chinese white wax bug (Ericerus pela)
白蠟樹	Chinese ash (Fraxinus chinensis), whose bark, flowers and leaves are used in TCM
白蠟蟲	Chinese white wax bug (Ericerus pela)
白血球	white blood cell; leukocyte
白血病	leukemia
白行簡	Bai Xingjian (c. 776-826), younger brother of Bai Juyi 白居易[Bai2 Ju1 yi4], Tang novelist and poet, author of novel Tale of Courtesan Li Wa 李娃傳|李娃传[Li3 Wa2 Zhuan4]
白衣天使	"angel in white" (laudatory term for a nurse)
白衣戰士	warrior in white; medical worker
白衣蒼狗	lit. (cloud shapes) changing from a white shirt to a gray dog (idiom)
白話	spoken language; vernacular
白話文	writings in the vernacular
白話詩	free verse in the vernacular
白讀	colloquial (rather than literary) pronunciation of a Chinese character
白豆蔻	cardamom (Elettaria cardamomum)
白費	to waste (one's energy etc)
白費唇舌	to whistle down the wind; to waste one's breath (idiom)
白質	(anatomy) white matter
白起	Bai Qi (-258 BC), famous general of Qin 秦國|秦国, the victor at 長平|长平 in 260 BC
白跑一趟	to go on an errand for nothing; to go on a wild-goose chase
白軍	White Guard or White Movement, anti-communist troops fighting against the Bolsheviks during the Russian Civil War (1917-1922)
白道	(astronomy) the moon's path around the earth
白酒	baijiu, a spirit usually distilled from sorghum
白醋	white vinegar; plain vinegar
白金	platinum; silver; white gold
白金漢宮	Buckingham Palace
白金漢郡	Buckinghamshire (English county)
白銀	silver
白銀區	Baiyin, a district of Baiyin City 白銀市|白银市[Bai2 yin2 Shi4], Gansu
白銀市	Baiyin, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
白銀書	valuable book decorated with silver, gold and jewels etc, commonly regarded as a disguised form of bribe
白銅	copper-nickel alloy
白鋼	steel
白鎢礦	scheelite
白鐵	galvanized iron
白鑞	pewter; solder
白開水	plain boiled water
白附	white aconite
白附片	sliced white aconite (used in TCM)
白陶	white pottery (of Shang Dynastry 16-11th century BC)
白雪	snow
白雪公主	Snow White
白雪皚皚	brilliant white snow cover (esp. of distant peaks)
白雲	white cloud
白雲區	Baiyun, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
白雲岩	dolomite (geology)
白雲機場	Baiyun Airport (Guangzhou)
白雲母	muscovite; white mica
白雲石	dolomite
白雲蒼狗	lit. a white cloud transforms into what looks like a gray dog (idiom)
白雲鄂博礦區	Bayan Obo Mining District, a district of Baotou City 包頭市|包头市[Bao1 tou2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
白電	white goods (abbr. for 白色家電|白色家电[bai2 se4 jia1 dian4])
白霜	hoar frost
白露	Bailu or White Dew, 15th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 8th-22nd September
白面書生	lit. pale-faced scholar (idiom); young and inexperienced person without practical experience
白頂䳭	(bird species of China) pied wheatear (Oenanthe pleschanka)
白頂溪鴝	(bird species of China) white-capped redstart (Phoenicurus leucocephalus)
白頂玄鷗	(bird species of China) brown noddy (Anous stolidus)
白頂鵐	(bird species of China) white-capped bunting (Emberiza stewarti)
白項鳳鶥	(bird species of China) white-naped yuhina (Yuhina bakeri)
白領	white-collar; white-collar worker
白領八哥	(bird species of China) collared myna (Acridotheres albocinctus)
白領翡翠	(bird species of China) collared kingfisher (Todiramphus chloris)
白領鳳鶥	(bird species of China) white-collared yuhina (Parayuhina diademata)
白頭	hoary head; old age
白頭偕老	(idiom) (of a married couple) to live together until old age; to remain lifelong companions
白頭山	Baekdu or Changbai mountains 長白山|长白山, volcanic mountain range between Jilin province and North Korea, prominent in Manchu and Korean mythology
白頭海鵰	bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), the national bird of the United States
白頭硬尾鴨	(bird species of China) white-headed duck (Oxyura leucocephala)
白頭翁	root of Chinese pulsatilla; Chinese bulbul
白頭鵐	(bird species of China) pine bunting (Emberiza leucocephalos)
白頭鵙鶥	(bird species of China) white-hooded babbler (Gampsorhynchus rufulus)
白頭鵯	(bird species of China) light-vented bulbul (Pycnonotus sinensis)
白頭鶴	(bird species of China) hooded crane (Grus monacha)
白頭鷂	(bird species of China) western marsh harrier (Circus aeruginosus)
白頭鷹	bald eagle
白頰噪鶥	(bird species of China) white-browed laughingthrush (Pterorhinus sannio)
白頰山鷓鴣	(bird species of China) white-cheeked partridge (Arborophila atrogularis)
白頰鵯	(bird species of China) Himalayan bulbul (Pycnonotus leucogenys)
白頰黑雁	(bird species of China) barnacle goose (Branta leucopsis)
白頸噪鶥	(bird species of China) white-necked laughingthrush (Garrulax strepitans)
白頸長尾雉	(bird species of China) Elliot's pheasant (Syrmaticus ellioti)
白頸鴉	(bird species of China) collared crow (Corvus torquatus)
白頸鶇	(bird species of China) white-collared blackbird (Turdus albocinctus)
白頸鸛	(bird species of China) Asian woolly-necked stork (Ciconia episcopus)
白額圓尾鸌	(bird species of China) bonin petrel (Pterodroma hypoleuca)
白額燕鷗	(bird species of China) little tern (Sternula albifrons)
白額雁	(bird species of China) greater white-fronted goose (Anser albifrons)
白額鸌	(bird species of China) streaked shearwater (Calonectris leucomelas)
白飯	plain cooked rice; rice with nothing to go with it
白饒	to give sth extra free of charge; (coll.) in vain; to no avail
白首齊眉	(of a couple) to grow old together in mutual respect (idiom)
白香詞譜	Anthology of ci poems tunes (1795), edited by Xu Menglan 舒夢蘭|舒梦兰, with 100 accessible poems from Tang through to Qing times
白馬寺	the Baima or White Horse Temple in Luoyang, one of the earliest Buddhist temples in China
白馬王子	a Prince Charming; the man of one's dreams
白馬股	gilt-edged securities
白馬雞	(bird species of China) white eared pheasant (Crossoptilon crossoptilon)
白馬雪山	Baima Snow Mountains, up to 5430 m., in Dechen or Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
白駒過隙	a white steed flits past a crack (idiom); How time flies!
白骨	bones of the dead
白骨精	White Bone Spirit (in the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4])
白骨頂	coot
白體	lean type
白髮	white or gray hair
白髮人送黑髮人	to see one's child die before oneself
白髮蒼蒼	old and gray-haired
白鬼	"white ghost", derogatory term for caucasians (Cantonese)
白鬼筆	(botany) common stinkhorn (Phallus impudicus)
白魚	whitefish
白鯨	Moby Dick, novel by Herman Melville 赫曼·麥爾維爾|赫曼·麦尔维尔[He4 man4 Mai4 er3 wei2 er3]
白鱀豚	Chinese river dolphin (Lipotes vexillifer)
白鵜鶘	(bird species of China) great white pelican (Pelecanus onocrotalus)
白鵠	(white) swan
白鶴	(bird species of China) Siberian crane (Leucogeranus leucogeranus)
白鶴拳	Baihequan (Fujian White Crane) martial art form
白鶴梁	White Crane Ridge at Fuling, Sichuan on the Changjiang River, that used to show above the water at dry periods, with famous carvings
白鶴灘	Baihetan, the name of a hydroelectric dam on the Jinsha River 金沙江[Jin1 sha1 Jiang1] at a point where the river forms a border between Yunnan and Sichuan
白鶺鴒	(bird species of China) white wagtail (Motacilla alba)
白鷳	(bird species of China) silver pheasant (Lophura nycthemera)
白鷺	(bird species of China) little egret (Egretta garzetta)
白鷺灣濕地公園	Bailuwan Wetland Park, Chengdu
白鸛	(bird species of China) white stork (Ciconia ciconia)
白鹼灘區	Baijiantan, a district of Karamay City 克拉瑪依市|克拉玛依市[Ke4 la1 ma3 yi1 Shi4], Xinjiang
白麵	wheat flour; flour; heroin
白麵兒	heroin
白麻子	pockmark
白點噪鶥	(bird species of China) white-speckled laughingthrush (Ianthocincla bieti)
白鼻子	cunning or sly person
白鼻心	(Tw) masked palm civet (Paguma larvata)
百	hundred; numerous; all kinds of
百事可樂	Pepsi
百事無成	to have accomplished nothing (idiom)
百事輕怡	Diet Pepsi; Pepsi Light
百事通	knowledgeable person; know all
百位	the hundreds place (or column) in the decimal system
百依百順	docile and obedient; all obedience
百倍	a hundredfold; (fig.) markedly
百兆	(computer networking) 100 megabits per second; 100Base-T
百克	hectogram
百兒八十	about a hundred; a hundred or so
百出	(following a noun) full of ...; abounding in ...
百分	percent; percentage
百分之	percent
百分之一百	one hundred percent; totally (effective)
百分之百	a hundred percent; out and out; absolutely
百分位數	percentile (statistics)
百分制	hundred mark system
百分數	percentage
百分比	percentage
百分率	percentage; percent
百分百	one hundred percent; totally (effective)
百分號	percent sign (%)
百分點	percentage point
百利甜	Baileys Irish Cream (brand of alcoholic drink)
百利甜酒	Baileys Irish Cream (brand of alcoholic drink)
百勝	BaiSheng, common name for Chinese company
百勝難慮敵，三折乃良醫	(a line from a poem by the Tang poet Liu Yuxi 劉禹錫|刘禹锡[Liu2 Yu3 xi1]) one gains very little insight into one's enemy from a hundred victories, but he who breaks his arm three times will be a good doctor
百勝餐飲	Tricon Global Restaurants (incl. Pizza Hut and KFC)
百勝餐飲集團	Yum! Brands, Inc., American fast food corporation operating Pizza Hut, KFC etc.
百匯	parfait (loanword)
百十	a hundred or so
百卉千葩	myriad plants and flowers (idiom); rich and colorful
百口莫辯	(idiom) (of sb unfairly accused) to have all one's protestations fall on deaf ears; to be unable to convince sb of one's innocence
百合	(botany) lily
百合子	Yuriko, Japanese female given name
百合科	Liliaceae; the lily family
百合花	lily; fig. pure and spotless person; virgin
百合花飾	fleur-de-lis (armorial symbol)
百善孝為先	of all virtues filial piety is most important (idiom)
百團大戰	Hundred Regiments offensive of August-December 1940, a large scale offensive against the Japanese by the communists
百姓	common people
百威	Budweiser (beer)
百威啤酒	Budweiser beer
百孔千瘡	heavily damaged; (fig.) full of holes; riddled with problems
百家	many schools of thought; many people or households
百家姓	The Book of Family Names, anonymous Song dynasty reading primer listing 438 surnames
百家樂	(loanword) baccarat
百家爭鳴	a hundred schools of thought contend (idiom); refers to the classical philosophic schools of the Warring States period 475-221 BC
百寶箱	treasure chest
百尺竿頭	to be at the highest level of enlightenment (Buddhist expression)
百尺竿頭，更進一步	lit. after climbing a hundred feet up a pole, one should go even further (idiom)
百川	rivers
百川歸海	all things tend in one direction (idiom)
百帕	hectopascal (hPa), unit of atmospheric pressure
百年	hundred years; century; (fig.) a whole lifetime; a person's whole life
百年不遇	only met with once every hundred years (drought, flood etc)
百年之後	(idiom) (euphemism) after (sb's) death
百年大計	a project of vital and lasting importance
百年好合	may you live a long and happy life together (wedding greeting)
百年樹人	(idiom) it takes many years to raise children to be upstanding citizens
百幾	more than a hundred
百度	Baidu, Chinese internet company and search engine
百度幣	virtual currency created by Baidu
百度百科	Baidu online encyclopedia
百度知道	Baidu Zhidao, online Q&A forum
百廢俱興	all neglected tasks are being undertaken (idiom); work is now underway
百廢待興	many things waiting to be done (idiom); a thousand things to do
百廢待舉	many things waiting to be done (idiom); a thousand things to do
百弊叢生	All the ill effects appear. (idiom)
百強	top 100 (e.g. top 100 towns)
百忙	busy schedule
百思不解	to remain puzzled after pondering over sth a hundred times (idiom)
百思買	Best Buy (retailer)
百感交集	all sorts of feelings well up in one's heart
百慕大	Bermuda
百慕大三角	Bermuda Triangle
百慕達	Bermuda (Tw)
百戰不殆	to come unscathed through a hundred battles (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3]); to win every fight
百戰百勝	to emerge victorious in every battle; to be ever-victorious
百折不撓	to keep on fighting in spite of all setbacks (idiom)
百搭	(card games) wild card
百日咳	whooping cough; pertussis
百日維新	Hundred Days Reform (1898), failed attempt to reform the Qing dynasty
百日菊	(botany) zinnia
百會穴	(TCM) acupuncture point GV-20, located at the top of the head
百果	all kinds of fruits
百樂餐	potluck meal
百步穿楊	to shoot with great precision (idiom)
百歲老人	centenarian
百潔布	scouring pad; kitchen sponge
百濟	Paekche or Baekje (18 BC-660 AD), one of the Korean Three Kingdoms
百無一失	no danger of anything going wrong; no risk at all
百無禁忌	all taboos are off (idiom); anything goes; nothing is taboo
百無聊賴	(idiom) bored to death; bored stiff; overcome with boredom
百煉成鋼	to be tempered into a steel
百煉鋼	high-grade well-tempered steel
百物	all things
百獸	all creatures; every kind of animal
百瓦	hectowatt
百病	every illness
百發百中	(lit.) one hundred shots, one hundred hits (idiom)
百眼巨人	hundred-eyed monster
百科	universal; encyclopedic; abbr. for 百科全書|百科全书[bai3 ke1 quan2 shu1]
百科事典	encyclopedia
百科全書	encyclopedia
百科詞典	encyclopedic dictionary
百穀	all the grains; every kind of cereal crop
百端待舉	a thousand things remain to be done (idiom)
百米	hectometer
百米賽跑	100-meter dash
百粵	Baiyue, generic term for southern ethnic groups; also written 百越
百老匯	Broadway (New York City)
百聞不如一見	seeing once is better than hearing a hundred times (idiom); seeing for oneself is better than hearing from many others
百聽不厭	worth hearing a hundred times
百腳	centipede
百般	in hundred and one ways; in every possible way; by every means
百般刁難	(idiom) to put up innumerable obstacles; to create all kinds of difficulties
百般奉承	to fawn upon sb in every possible way
百般巴結	to flatter someone in a hundred different ways
百色市	Baise, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
百花獎	Hundred Flowers Awards, film prize awarded since 1962
百花運動	Hundred Flowers Campaign (PRC, 1956-57), in which Mao called for the taboo on discussing mistakes of the CCP to be lifted
百花齊放	a hundred flowers bloom (idiom); let the arts have free expression
百花齊放，百家爭鳴	a hundred flowers bloom, a hundred schools of thought contend (idiom); refers to the classical philosophic schools of the Warring States period 475-221 BC, but adopted for Mao's campaign of 1956
百草	all kinds of grass; all kinds of flora
百草枯	paraquat
百萬	million
百萬位	the millions place (or column) in the decimal system
百萬噸	megaton; million tons
百萬富翁	millionaire
百萬赫茲	megahertz (physics, electronics)
百葉	tripe (stomach lining of cattle etc used as food)
百葉窗	shutter; blind
百葉箱	Stevenson screen (white box with ventilated sides, housing meteorological instruments)
百裡挑一	one in a hundred; cream of the crop
百褶裙	pleated skirt
百讀不厭	to be worth reading a hundred times (idiom)
百變	ever-changing
百貨	general merchandise
百貨公司	department store
百貨商店	department store
百貨大樓	department store
百貨店	bazaar; department store; general store
百越	Baiyue, generic term for southern ethnic groups
百足	centipede; millipede
百足之蟲死而不僵	a centipede dies but never falls down; old institutions die hard
百足蟲	centipede
百里	two-character surname Baili
百里香	thyme (Thymus vulgaris)
百金花	Centaurium pulchellum var. altaicum
百靈	lark (bird of family Alaudidae)
百靈鳥	skylark
百餘	a hundred or more
百香果	passion fruit
癿	(used in place names)
皀	one grain
皁	black; police runners, from the black clothes formerly worn by them
皂	soap; black
皂石	soapstone
皂礬	green vitriol (ferrous sulfate FeSO4:7H2O)
皂素	(chemistry) saponin
皂苷	(chemistry) saponin
皂莢	Chinese honey locust (Gleditsia sinensis)
皂莢樹	Chinese honey locust (Gleditsia sinensis)
皂角	Chinese honey locust (Gleditsia sinensis)
皂鹼	soap; same as 肥皂
的	a taxi; a cab (abbr. for 的士[di1 shi4])
的哥	male taxi driver; cabbie (slang)
的士	taxi (loanword)
的士高	(HK) (loanword) disco
的姐	female taxi driver
的款	reliable funds
的的喀喀湖	Lake Titicaca
的確	really; indeed
的確良	dacron (loanword)
的話	if (coming after a conditional clause)
的里雅斯特	Trieste, port city in Italy
的黎波里	Tripoli, capital of Libya; Tripoli, city in north Lebanon
皆	all; each and every; in all cases
皆可	both OK; all acceptable
皆因	simply because; all because
皆大歡喜	to everyone's delight and satisfaction
皆然	to be all the same way (literary)
皇	surname Huang
皇上	the emperor; Your majesty the emperor; His imperial majesty
皇位	the title of Emperor
皇儲	crown prince
皇冠	crown (headgear)
皇冠上的明珠	the brightest jewel in the crown
皇冠假日酒店	Crowne Plaza (hotel chain)
皇冠出版	Crown publishers, Hong Kong
皇冠出版集團	Crown publishing group, Hong Kong
皇古	ancient times
皇后	empress; imperial consort
皇后區	Queens, one of the five boroughs of New York City
皇后鎮	Queenstown, town in New Zealand
皇城	Imperial City, inner part of Beijing, with the Forbidden City at its center
皇堡	Burger King Whopper
皇天	August Heaven; Heaven as supreme deity (often paired with 后土[Hou4 tu3], the Earth Deity)
皇天不負苦心人	Heaven will not disappoint the person who tries (idiom). If you try hard, you're bound to succeed eventually.
皇天后土	heaven and earth (idiom)
皇太后	empress dowager
皇太子	crown prince
皇太極	Hong Taiji (1592-1643), eighth son of Nurhaci 努爾哈赤|努尔哈赤[Nu3 er3 ha1 chi4], reigned 1626-1636 as Second Khan of Later Jin dynasty 後金|后金[Hou4 Jin1], then founded the Qing dynasty 大清[Da4 Qing1] and reigned 1636-1643 as Emperor
皇太極清太宗	Hong Taiji (1592-1643), eighth son of Nurhaci 努爾哈赤|努尔哈赤[Nu3 er3 ha1 chi4], reigned 1626-1636 as Second Khan of Later Jin dynasty 後金|后金[Hou4 Jin1], then founded the Qing dynasty 大清[Da4 Qing1] and reigned 1636-1643 as Emperor
皇姑區	Huanggu, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
皇子	prince
皇室	royal family; imperial household; member of the royal family
皇宮	imperial palace
皇家	royal; imperial household
皇家加勒比海遊輪公司	Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines
皇家學會	the Royal Society (UK scientific academy)
皇家海軍	Royal Navy (UK)
皇家香港警察	Royal Hong Kong Police Force (1969-1997)
皇家馬德里	Real Madrid (soccer team)
皇家騎警	Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), Canadian federal and national police force
皇帝	emperor
皇帝不急太監急	lit. the emperor is not worried, but his eunuchs are (idiom)
皇帝女兒不愁嫁	lit. the emperor's daughter does not worry about whether she will be able to marry (idiom)
皇帝的新衣	the Emperor's new clothes (i.e. naked)
皇帶魚	giant oarfish (Regalecus glesne)
皇恩	imperial kindness; benevolence from the emperor
皇族	the imperial family; royal kin
皇族內閣	Qing emergency cabinet set up in May 1911 to confront the Xinhai rebels
皇朝	the imperial court; the government in imperial times
皇榜	imperial notice (announcement in the form of a notice posted with the authority of the emperor)
皇權	imperial power
皇法	imperial law; same as 王法[wang2 fa3]
皇漢	Han ethnonationalist
皇甫	two-character surname Huangfu
皇甫嵩	Huangfu Song (-195), later Han general and warlord
皇甫鎛	Huangfu Bo (c. 800), Minister during early Tang
皇皇	magnificent
皇糧	lit. imperial funding for troops
皇考	(archaic) (honorific) deceased father (esp. of an emperor)
皇親國戚	the emperor relatives (idiom); person with powerful connections
皇軍	imperial army (esp. Japanese)
皇陵	imperial tomb (of a Chinese emperor)
皇馬	Real Madrid soccer team; abbr. for 皇家馬德里|皇家马德里
皈	to comply with; to follow
皈依	to convert to (a religion)
皈依者	a convert
皋	bank; marsh
皋蘭縣	Gaolan, a county in Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
皎	bright; white
皎厲	proud
皎月	the bright moon
皎潔	shining clean; bright (moonlight)
皎白	bright white
皎皎	clear and bright
皎皎者易污	Virtue is easily sullied. (idiom)
皐	high riverbank
皒皒	white
皓	(bound form) bright; luminous; white (esp. bright white teeth of youth or white hair of old age)
皓白	snow-white; spotless
皓首	white head of hair; fig. old person
皓首蒼顏	white hair and gray sunken cheeks (idiom); decrepit old age
皓齒	white teeth (symbol of youth and beauty)
皓齒明眸	white teeth and bright eyes (idiom); lovely young woman
皓齒硃唇	white teeth and vermilion lips (idiom); lovely young woman
皕	two-hundred (rarely used); 200
皖	short name for Anhui 安徽[An1 hui1]
皖南事變	New Fourth Army Incident of 1940, involving fighting between the Nationalists and Communists
皖系軍閥	Anhui faction of Northern Warlords 1911-c.1929
皘	white
皙	(literary) fair-skinned; of light complexion
皚	(literary) white as snow
皚皚	(literary) white as snow; pure white
皜	spotlessly white
皝	luminous; bright hoary, white
皞	bright; brilliant
皤	white
皦	sparkling; bright
皪	luster (of pearls)
皫	white
皭	pure
皮	skin; peel; rind; outer layer; leather; hide; fur
皮下	under the skin; subcutaneous (injection)
皮下注射	hypodermic injection; subcutaneous injection
皮克斯	Pixar Animation Studios
皮克林	Pickering (name)
皮兒	wrapper; cover
皮具	leather products
皮劃艇	canoes and kayaks; (sports) canoeing and kayaking
皮劃艇靜水	canoe-kayak flatwater
皮包	handbag; briefcase
皮包公司	lit. briefcase company; dummy corporation; shell company
皮包骨頭	to be all skin and bones (idiom); also written 皮包骨[pi2 bao1 gu3]
皮匠	cobbler
皮卡	(loanword) pickup truck
皮卡爾	Picard (name)
皮囊	leather bag
皮埃爾	(name) Pierre
皮塔餅	(loanword) pita bread
皮外傷	superficial wound; a bruise
皮夾	wallet; Taiwan pr. [pi2 jia2]
皮子	skin; fur
皮實	(of things) durable; (of people) sturdy; tough
皮尺	tape measure
皮層	cortex
皮層性	cortical
皮層性視損傷	cortical visual impairment (CVI)
皮山縣	Pishan, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
皮帶	strap; leather belt
皮帶傳動	a leather drive belt
皮帶運輸機	belt conveyor
皮帶釦	belt buckle
皮弗婁牛	beefalo (cross between domestic cattle and bison)
皮影戲	shadow play
皮星	picosatellite
皮條	thong; leather strap; pimp
皮條客	pimp
皮欽語	pidgin
皮殼	carapace; hard outer shell; also pr. [pi2 ke2]
皮毛	fur; fur clothing; skin and hair
皮炎	dermatitis
皮爾	Pierre, capital of South Dakota
皮爾森	Pearson (family name as well as various places)
皮牙子	(dialect) onion (loanword from Uyghur "piyaz")
皮特凱恩群島	Pitcairn Islands
皮特拉克	Petrarch
皮球	ball (made of rubber, leather etc)
皮疹	a rash
皮癢	(coll.) to need a spanking
皮皮蝦	mantis shrimp
皮秒	picosecond, ps, 10^-12 s
皮笑肉不笑	to put on a fake smile (idiom); to smile insincerely
皮筋	rubber band
皮筏	leather float; inflatable raft
皮箱	leather suitcase
皮納塔	(loanword) piñata
皮肉	skin and flesh; the physical body
皮肉之苦	physical pain; lit. skin and flesh suffer
皮脂腺	sebaceous glands
皮膚	skin
皮膚病	skin disease; skin condition; dermatosis
皮膚癌	skin cancer
皮膚科	dermatology
皮膚肌肉囊	dermo-muscular sac
皮臉	naughty; cheeky; impudent
皮艇	kayak
皮草	fur clothing
皮薩餅	pizza (loanword)
皮蛋	century egg; preserved egg
皮衣	leather jacket or coat
皮袋	leather bag; leather pouch (for liquid)
皮袍	fur-lined changpao 長袍|长袍[chang2 pao2]
皮製品	leather goods
皮褲	leather pants
皮試	(medicine) skin test
皮諾切特	General Augusto Pinochet (1915-2006), Chilean dictator
皮貨	furs
皮質	cortex; cerebral cortex
皮質醇	cortisol
皮質類固醇	corticosteroid
皮重	tare weight
皮開肉綻	flesh lacerated from corporal punishment (idiom)
皮面	outer skin; surface; leather cover (of a book)
皮革	leather
皮革商	fellmonger; a dealer who works with animal hides and skins
皮鞋	leather shoes
皮鞋匠	shoemaker
皮鞋油	shoe polish
皮鞭	lash
皮黃	Beijing opera (or styles of song in); abbr. for 西皮二黃|西皮二黄
皰	pimple; acne; blister
皰疹	blister; bleb (watery blister); herpes (medicine)
皰疹病毒	herpes virus (med.)
皴	chapped; cracked
皴裂	(of lips, skin etc) to chap
皸	to chap
皸裂	(of lips, skin etc) to chap
皺	to wrinkle; wrinkled; to crease
皺巴巴	wrinkled; crumpled; unironed
皺折	crease; fold; ripple
皺眉	to frown; to knit one's brow
皺眉頭	to scowl; to knit the brows
皺紋	wrinkle
皺縮	to wrinkle; wrinkled up
皺葉歐芹	curled-leaf parsley (Petroselinum crispum)
皺褶	creased; wrinkled; fold
皺起	to purse; to pucker (up)
皻	chapped skin
皽	(literary) dead skin cells on the surface of the skin
皿	(bound form) dish; vessel; shallow container; radical no. 108
盂	basin; wide-mouthed jar or pot
盂方水方	If the basin is square, the water in it will also be square. (idiom)
盂縣	Yu County or Yuxian, a county in Yangquan City 陽泉市|阳泉市[Yang2 quan2 Shi4], Shanxi
盂蘭盆會	Feast of All Souls (fifteenth day of seventh lunar month) (Buddhism)
盃	trophy cup; classifier for certain containers of liquids: glass, cup
盅	handleless cup; goblet
盆	basin; flower pot
盆友	(Internet slang) friend (pun on 朋友[peng2 you3])
盆地	(geography) basin; depression
盆子	basin
盆底	(anatomy) pelvic floor
盆景	bonsai; landscape in a pot
盆栽	to grow (a plant) in a pot
盆浴	bathtub
盆缽	generic term for pottery
盆腔	the pelvic cavity; birth canal
盆花	potted flower
盈	full; filled; surplus
盈凸月	full moon; waxing gibbous moon
盈利	profit; gain; to make profits
盈江縣	Yingjiang, a county in Dehong Dai and Jingpo Autonomous Prefecture 德宏傣族景頗族自治州|德宏傣族景颇族自治州[De2 hong2 Dai3 zu2 Jing3 po1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
盈箱累篋	to fill boxes and baskets to the brim (with treasures)
盈虧	profit and loss; waxing and waning
盈虧自負	responsible for its profit and losses (of organization)
盈門	lit. fill the door
盈餘	surplus; profit
盉	vessel similar to a kettle, but with three or four legs, used in ancient times for warming wine
益	benefit; profit; advantage
益加	increasingly; more and more; all the more
益友	helpful friend; wise companion
益州	name of old state in modern Sichuan
益智	to grow the intellect
益智玩具	educational toy
益母	motherwort (Leonurus heterophyllus)
益母草	motherwort (Leonurus heterophyllus or L. cardiaca)
益生菌	probiotics
益發	increasingly; more and more; ever more
益處	benefit
益蟲	beneficial insect
益趨	increasingly; more and more
益陽市	Yiyang, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
益鳥	beneficial bird (esp. one that preys on insect pests or mice)
盋	obscure variant of 缽|钵[bo1]
盍	why not
盎	(literary) ancient earthenware container with a big belly and small mouth
盎司	(loanword) ounce (British imperial system)
盎撒	Anglo-Saxon
盎格魯	Anglo-
盎格魯撒克遜	Anglo-Saxon (people)
盎格魯薩克遜	Anglo-Saxon
盎然	abundant; plentiful; overflowing; exuberant
盎盂相擊	(idiom) to quarrel
盎盂相敲	(idiom) to quarrel
盒	small box; case
盒中袋	bag-in-box (packaging)
盒子	box; case
盒帶	cassette tape (abbr. for 盒式錄音磁帶|盒式录音磁带[he2 shi4 lu4 yin1 ci2 dai4])
盒式錄音磁帶	cassette tape
盒飯	meal in a partitioned box
盔	helmet
盔甲	armor; body armor and helmet
盔頭	decorated hat or helmet in Chinese opera to characterize role
盚	surname Qiu
盛	flourishing; vigorous; magnificent
盛世	a flourishing period; period of prosperity; a golden age
盛事	grand occasion
盛京	historical name of Shenyang 瀋陽|沈阳 in modern Liaoning province
盛傳	widely spread; widely rumored; stories abound
盛典	majestic pomp; grand ceremony
盛名	famous reputation
盛器	vessel; receptacle
盛夏	midsummer; the height of summer
盛大	grand; majestic; magnificent
盛大舞會	grand ball
盛妝	vigorous; strong and healthy
盛季	peak season; a flourishing period
盛宴	feast
盛年	the prime of one's life
盛德	splendid virtue; majestic moral character; great kindness
盛怒	enraged; furious
盛情	great kindness; magnificent hospitality
盛景	grand view; magnificent landscape
盛會	pageant; distinguished meeting
盛服	splendid attire
盛極一時	all the rage for a time; grand fashion for a limited time
盛氣	grand and heroic; exuberant character
盛氣凌人	overbearing; arrogant bully
盛況	grand occasion
盛況空前	a magnificent and unprecedented event (idiom)
盛產	to produce in abundance; to be rich in
盛稱	enthusiastic praise; to praise highly
盛筵	grand banquet
盛舉	grand event; magnificent undertaking
盛行	to be in vogue; to be popular; to be prevalent
盛行率	prevalence; incidence
盛衰	to flourish then decline; rise and fall
盛裝	splendid clothes; rich attire; one's Sunday best
盛譽	flourishing reputation
盛讚	to praise highly; an accolade
盛開	blooming; in full flower
盛飯	to fill a bowl with rice
盛饌	rich fare; splendid food
盜	to steal; to rob; to plunder
盜伐	to unlawfully fell trees
盜刷	to fraudulently draw on (sb's credit card account)
盜匪	bandit
盜取	to steal (including identity theft, credit card fraud or theft of computer account)
盜圖	to use an image without permission
盜墓	to rob a tomb
盜墓賊	tomb robber; grave robber
盜壘	(baseball) to steal a base; stolen base (SB)
盜採	to mine (or harvest, log, trap animals etc) illegally
盜汗	night sweats
盜版	pirated; illegal
盜版黨	Pirate Party, political movement whose main goal is to reform copyright law in line with the Internet era
盜獵	to poach (illegally hunt game)
盜用	to use illegitimately; to misappropriate; to embezzle
盜竊	to steal
盜藪	bandits' den
盜號	to steal an online account
盜賊	robber
盜賣	to steal sth and sell it
盜錄	to pirate (an audio recording, movie etc); to bootleg
盜龍	Rapator ornitholestoides (dinosaur)
盝	box case
盞	a small cup; classifier for lamps
盟	oath; pledge; union
盟兄	senior partner in sworn brotherhood
盟兄弟	sworn brother
盟友	ally
盟員	league member; ally
盟國	allies; united countries
盟山誓海	to pledge undying love (idiom); oath of eternal love
盟弟	junior partner in sworn brotherhood
盟約	contract of alliance; oath or treaty between allies
盟誓	oath of alliance
盟軍	allied forces
盟邦	ally; allied country
盡	to use up; to exhaust; to end
盡人事	to do one's utmost; to do everything one can
盡人事，聽天命	(idiom) to do one's best and leave the rest to fate; to do everything within one's power, then accept whatever happens
盡人皆知	known by everyone (idiom); well known; a household name
盡到	to fulfill (one's duty etc)
盡力	to strive one's hardest; to spare no effort
盡力而為	to try one's utmost; to strive
盡善盡美	perfect (idiom); perfection; the best of all possible worlds
盡地主之誼	to act as host; to do the honors
盡失	(of hope, appetite, authority etc) to be lost
盡如人意	(idiom) to be everything one could wish for
盡孝	to do one's filial duty
盡展	to display (one's potential, one's talents etc)
盡心	with all of one's heart
盡心盡力	making an all-out effort (idiom); to try one's heart out
盡心竭力	to spare no effort (idiom); to do one's utmost
盡忠	to display utter loyalty; to be loyal to the end
盡性	displaying fully; developing to the greatest extent
盡情	as much as one likes
盡意	to express fully; all one's feelings
盡收眼底	to take in the whole scene at once; to have a panoramic view
盡數	in its entirety; all of it; all of them
盡是	to be full of; completely
盡歡	to thoroughly enjoy oneself
盡歡而散	to disperse after a happy time (idiom)
盡皆	all; without exception; complete
盡義務	to fulfill one's duty; to work without asking for reward
盡職	to discharge one's duties; conscientious
盡職盡責	responsible and diligent (idiom)
盡職調查	(law) due diligence
盡致	in the finest detail
盡興	to enjoy oneself to the full; to one's heart's content
盡言	saying everything; to speak out fully
盡調	(law) due diligence (abbr. for 盡職調查|尽职调查[jin4 zhi2 diao4 cha2])
盡責	to do one's duty; to do one's bit conscientiously
盡速	as quick as possible
盡釋前嫌	to forget former enmity (idiom)
盡量	as much as possible; to the greatest extent
盡頭	end; extremity; limit
盡飽	to be stuffed to the gills; to eat to satiety
監	(bound form) supervisor; supervisory office (in imperial China)
監利市	Jianli, a county-level city in Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
監外執行	to serve (a sentence) outside prison (law)
監學	school official responsible for supervising the students (old)
監守	to have custody of
監守自盜	to embezzle
監察	to supervise; to control
監察人	supervisor; monitor; watchdog
監察局	inspection office; supervisory office
監察部	Ministry of Supervision (MOS)
監察院	Control Yuan, a watchdog under the constitution of Republic of China, then of Taiwan
監工	workplace overseer; foreman
監押	a jail; to imprison
監控	to monitor
監查	to supervise; to audit; to monitor
監查員	supervisor; monitor
監測	to monitor
監牢	prison; jail
監牧	shepherd
監獄	prison
監理	to supervise; to oversee (e.g. a construction project)
監理所	inspection and control bureau
監看	to monitor; to keep an eye on
監督	to supervise; to oversee; to inspect
監督人	superintendent
監督者	supervisor
監票	to scrutinize balloting
監禁	to imprison; to jail; to take into custody
監管	to oversee; to take charge of; to supervise
監織造	supervisor of textiles (official post in Ming dynasty)
監考	to proctor (an exam); to invigilate
監聽	to monitor; to listen in; to eavesdrop
監製	to supervise the manufacture of; to supervise the shooting of films
監視	to monitor; to keep a close watch over; surveillance
監視器	security camera; surveillance monitor
監視孔	peephole
監視居住	(PRC law) residential surveillance
監誓	to administer an oath
監誓人	oath administrator; oath supervisor
監護	to act as a guardian
監護人	guardian
監護權	custody (of a child)
監躉	prisoner (Cantonese)
監門	gatekeeper
盤	tray; plate; dish; (finance) (bound form) market prices
盤亙	linked in a unbroken chain
盤倒	to interrogate, leaving sb speechless
盤剝	to exploit; to practice usury
盤古	Pangu (creator of the universe in Chinese mythology)
盤古氏	Pangu (creator of the universe in Chinese mythology)
盤問	to interrogate; to cross-examine; to inquire
盤坐	to sit cross-legged (as in the lotus position)
盤子	tray; plate; dish
盤察	to interrogate; to examine
盤審	to interrogate
盤尼西林	(loanword) penicillin
盤尾樹鵲	(bird species of China) racket-tailed treepie (Crypsirina temia)
盤山	going around a mountain
盤山縣	Panshan, a county in Panjin City 盤錦市|盘锦市[Pan2 jin3 Shi4], Liaoning
盤州市	Panzhou, a county-level city in Liupanshui City 六盤水市|六盘水市[Liu4 pan2 shui3 Shi4], Guizhou
盤帶	(soccer) to dribble
盤底	to interrogate and get to the bottom of sth
盤店	to buy a business (shop, restaurant etc) and all its assets
盤弄	to play around with; to fidget; to fondle
盤旋	to spiral; to circle; to go around
盤旋曲折	(idiom) (of a road etc) to wind circuitously
盤曲	coiled; entwined; tortuous
盤杠子	to carry out gymnastic tricks on horizontal bar
盤查	to interrogate; to question (at a roadblock)
盤根問底	lit. to examine roots and inquire at the base (idiom); to get to the bottom of sth
盤根究底	lit. to examine roots and inquire at the base (idiom); to get to the bottom of sth
盤根錯節	twisted roots and intertwined joints (idiom); complicated and very tricky
盤桓	to pace; to linger; to stay over
盤梯	spiral staircase
盤活	to revitalize (assets, resources etc)
盤球	(sports) to dribble
盤盤	twisting and turning
盤碗	dishes; crockery; plates and cups
盤秤	balance consisting of steelyard with a pan
盤符	drive letter (letter assigned to a disk drive or partition) (computing)
盤算	to plot; to scheme; to calculate
盤管	coil in still (used for distilling)
盤繞	to coil (around sth); to twine; to weave (basketwork)
盤纏	money for a voyage; travel expenses
盤羊	argali (Ovis ammon)
盤腿	to sit cross-legged; to sit in the lotus position
盤膝	cross-legged
盤詰	to cross-examine (law)
盤貨	to take stock; to make an inventory
盤費	travel expenses; fare; traveling allowance
盤踞	to occupy illegally; to seize (territory); to entrench (oneself)
盤道	twining mountain road
盤錦市	Panjin, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
盤錯	intertwined (of tree roots or branches); fig. an intricate matter
盤陀	twisted; spiral; uneven stones
盤陀路	twisting path; tortuous road
盤頭	to coil hair into a bun; hair worn in bun; turban
盤飧	dishes; the food in a dish
盤餐	side dish
盤香	incense coil
盤駁	to cross-examine; to interrogate and refute
盤點	to make an inventory; to take stock
盤龍區	Panlong, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
盤龍臥虎	lit. coiled dragon, crouching tiger (idiom)
盥	to wash (especially hands)
盥洗	to wash up; to freshen up
盥洗室	toilet; washroom; bathroom
盥洗盆	washbowl
盦	container
盧	surname Lu; abbr. for Luxembourg 盧森堡|卢森堡[Lu2 sen1 bao3]
盧克索	Luxor, city in Egypt
盧卡	Lucca (city in Tuscany)
盧卡斯	Lucas (name)
盧卡申科	Aleksandr Grigoryevich Lukachenko, president of Belarus from 1994
盧因	Lewin (name)
盧塞恩	Lucerne (city in Switzerland)
盧安達	Rwanda (Tw)
盧布	(loanword) ruble (Russian currency)
盧布爾雅那	Ljubljana, capital of Slovenia
盧恩字母	rune
盧旺達	Rwanda
盧梭	Jean-Jacques Rousseau (1712-1778), Enlightenment philosopher
盧森堡	Luxembourg
盧武鉉	Roh Moo-hyun (1946-2009), South Korean lawyer and politician, president 2003-2008
盧比	(loanword) rupee (Indian currency)
盧比安納	Ljubljana, capital of Slovenia (Tw)
盧氏縣	Lushi, a county in Sanmenxia City 三門峽市|三门峡市[San1 men2 xia2 Shi4], Henan
盧泰愚	Roh Tae-woo (1932-), South Korean politician, president 1988-1993
盧浮宮	the Louvre, museum in Paris
盧溝橋	Lugou Bridge or Marco Polo Bridge in southwest of Beijing, the scene of a conflict that marked the beginning of the Second Sino-Japanese War 抗日戰爭|抗日战争[Kang4 Ri4 Zhan4 zheng1]
盧溝橋事變	Marco Polo Bridge Incident of 7th July 1937, regarded as the beginning of the Second Sino-Japanese War 抗日戰爭|抗日战争[Kang4 Ri4 Zhan4 zheng1]
盧照鄰	Lu Zhaolin (637-689), one of the Four Great Poets of the Early Tang 初唐四傑|初唐四杰[Chu1 Tang2 Si4 jie2]
盧瑟	(loanword) loser
盧瑟福	Rutherford (name)
盧瓦爾河	Loire River, France
盧薩卡	Lusaka, capital of Zambia
盧龍縣	Lulong, a county in Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
盩	name of a district in Shaanxi
盪鞦韆	to swing (on a swing)
盬	covered pot
盭	unreasonable; violent
目	eye; (literary) to look; to regard; eye (of a net); mesh
目下	at present
目不交睫	lit. the eyelashes do not come together (idiom)
目不忍視	(lit.) the eye cannot bear to see it (idiom); (fig.) pitiful to behold
目不斜視	not to glance sideways (idiom); to gaze fixedly
目不暇接	lit. too much for the eye to take in (idiom); a feast for the eyes
目不暇給	lit. the eye cannot take it all in (idiom)
目不窺園	lit. not even peek at the garden
目不見睫	lit. the eye cannot see the eyelashes (idiom); fig. unable to see one's own faults
目不識丁	lit. the eye cannot recognize the letter T (idiom); totally illiterate
目不轉睛	unable to take one's eyes off (idiom); to gaze steadily; to stare
目不轉瞬	gazing fixedly (idiom)
目中無人	to consider everyone else beneath one (idiom); so arrogant that no-one else matters
目之所及	what one can see
目今	nowadays; at present; as things stand
目光	gaze; (fig.) attention; expression in one's eyes; look
目光呆滯	to have a lifeless look in one's eyes (idiom)
目光如豆	short-sighted; limited vision
目光所及	as far as the eye can see
目光短淺	to be shortsighted
目前	at the present time; currently
目劄	(TCM) excessive blinking of the eyes
目力	eyesight (i.e. quality of vision)
目力所及	what one can see
目怔口呆	lit. eye startled, mouth struck dumb (idiom); stunned; stupefied
目成	to make eyes; to exchange flirting glances with sb
目挑心招	the eye incites, the heart invites (idiom); flirtatious
目擊	to see with one's own eyes; to witness
目擊者	eyewitness
目數	(sieve) mesh size; (sandpaper) grit size
目標	target; goal; objective
目標地址	destination address; target address
目標市場	target market
目標檢測	object detection (computer vision)
目測	to estimate visually; to gauge; visual assessment
目無全牛	to see the ox already cut up into joints (idiom); extremely skilled
目無法紀	with no regard for law or discipline (idiom); flouting the law and disregarding all rules
目無組織	to pay no heed to the regulations
目珠	eyeball
目的	purpose; aim; goal; target; objective
目的地	destination (location)
目盲	blind; blindness
目眦	eye socket
目眩	dizzy; dazzled
目眩神迷	to be dazzled and stunned (idiom)
目眩頭昏	to be dizzy and see stars
目睜口呆	stunned; dumbstruck
目睹	to witness; to see at first hand; to see with one's own eyes
目瞤	eyelid twitch
目瞪口呆	(idiom) dumbstruck; stupefied; stunned
目空一切	the eye can see nothing worthwhile all around (idiom); arrogant
目空四海	the eye can see nothing worthwhile all around (idiom); arrogant
目視	to look at
目視飛行	(aviation) visual flight; VFR flight
目語	to speak with the eyes
目迷五色	the eye is bewildered by five colors (idiom); a dazzling riot of colors
目送	to follow with one's eyes (a departing guest etc)
目錄	catalog; table of contents; directory (on computer hard drive)
目錄學	bibliography
目鏡	eyepiece
盯	to watch attentively; to fix one's attention on; to stare at
盯住	to watch sb closely; to breathe down sb's neck; to mark (sports)
盯市	mark to market (accounting)
盯梢	to follow sb; to tail; to shadow
盯牢	to gaze intently at; to scrutinize
盯緊	to keep an eye on
盯視	to stare fixedly; to look concentratedly
盱	anxious; stare
盱眙縣	Xuyi, a county in Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
盲	blind
盲人	blind person
盲人摸象	blind people touch an elephant (idiom, from Nirvana sutra 大般涅槃經|大般涅盘经[da4 ban1 Nie4 pan2 jing1]); fig. unable to see the big picture
盲人門球	goalball (Paralympic sport)
盲區	blind spot
盲友	blind person; visually-impaired person
盲品	blind taste testing
盲囊	cecum (anatomy); appendix
盲孔	(electronics) blind via
盲字	braille
盲從	to follow blindly; to conform slavishly; unthinking obedience
盲打	to touch-type
盲文	braille; literature in braille
盲杖	white cane (used by the blind)
盲法	blinding; masking (in scientific experiments)
盲流	(PRC) flow of people from the countryside into the cities
盲測	blind testing
盲猜	to hazard a guess
盲盒	blind box; mystery box
盲目	(fig.) (of one's actions) blind; unthinking
盲端	cecum (start of the colon, linking it to small intestine)
盲胞	visually impaired person (Tw)
盲腸	appendix (anatomy); cecum
盲腸炎	appendicitis
盲蛛	harvestmen (arachnids of the order Opiliones)
盲蜘蛛	harvestman (arachnid of the order Opiliones)
盲道	path for the visually impaired (made with tactile paving)
盲道磚	tactile paving tile
盲鰻	hagfish (jawless proto-fish of class Myxini)
盲點	blind spot
直	straight; to straighten; fair and reasonable
直上雲霄	to soar into the sky
直來直去	going directly (without detour); (fig.) direct
直來直往	blunt; outspoken
直係軍閥	the Zhili faction of the Northern Warlords
直列	(of a connector etc) inline
直到	until
直到現在	even now; until now; right up to the present
直勾勾	(of one's gaze) fixed; staring
直升機	helicopter
直升機坪	helipad
直呼	to say straightforwardly
直呼其名	to address sb directly by name; to address sb by name without using an honorific title (indicating familiarity or overfamiliarity)
直奔	to go straight to; to make a beeline for
直射	(of light, rays etc) to fall directly on
直尺	straight ruler
直屬	directly subordinate
直布羅陀	Gibraltar
直布羅陀海峽	Strait of Gibraltar
直幅	vertical scroll; (advertising) vertical banner
直待	to wait until; until
直徑	diameter
直情徑行	straightforward and honest in one's actions (idiom)
直感	intuition; direct feeling or understanding
直愣愣	staring blankly
直截	straightforward
直截了當	direct and plainspoken (idiom); blunt; straightforward
直抒胸臆	to speak one's mind
直拍	(table tennis) penhold grip
直捷	straightforward
直排	vertical setting (printing)
直接	direct (opposite: indirect 間接|间接[jian4 jie1]); immediate
直接數據	data-direct (in LAN emulation)
直接稅	direct tax
直接競爭	direct competitor; direct competition
直接賓語	direct object (grammar)
直接選舉	direct election
直插式	(of a connector etc) inline
直搗	to advance directly toward (an enemy stronghold etc); (fig.) to directly target (the main objective)
直搗黃龍	lit. to directly attack Huanglong
直撅撅	completely straight
直播	(TV, radio) to broadcast live; live broadcast
直播帶貨	(neologism c. 2020) (of an Internet influencer etc) to showcase and promote products via live stream, providing links for viewers to make a purchase
直播間	studio for live streaming; a live stream
直方圖	histogram
直書	to record faithfully
直根	taproot (main root growing vertically down)
直殭	rigid; stiff
直流	to flow steadily; direct current (DC)
直流電	direct current
直溜溜	straight as an arrow
直營店	company-owned store; store directly operated by the parent company (as opposed to one run by a franchisee, agent or distributor)
直爽	straightforward; outspoken
直率	candid; frank
直球	(baseball) fastball; (fig.) (coll.) direct; frank; upfront; blunt
直男	(slang) heterosexual man
直男癌	(slang) extreme "straight-man" behavior marked by rigidity, emotional insensitivity, and dismissive or sexist attitudes
直白	to speak frankly; frank; open; blunt
直皖戰爭	war of 1920 between Northern Warlords, in which the Zhili faction beat the Anhui faction and took over the Beijing government
直眉瞪眼	to stare angrily or vacantly
直瞪瞪	to stare blankly
直積	direct product (in set theory)
直立	erect; upright; vertical
直立人	Homo erectus
直笛	(Tw) recorder (musical instrument)
直筆	a straightforward honest account
直系	directly related
直系祖先	direct ancestor
直系血親	direct descendant; blood relative
直系親屬	next of kin; immediate dependant
直給	(slang) direct (in the way sth is conveyed or presented)
直線	straight line; sharply (rise or fall)
直線加速器	linear accelerator
直線性加速器	linear accelerator
直翅目	Orthoptera (insect order including grasshoppers, crickets and locusts)
直腳鞋	shoe that can be worn on either foot
直腸	rectum (anatomy)
直腸子	(coll.) forthright person
直腸直肚	frank and outspoken (idiom)
直腸鏡	proctoscope (medicine)
直至	lasting until; up till (the present)
直航	to fly or sail direct (to ...)
直落布蘭雅	Telok Blangah, a place in Singapore
直行	to go straight; straight forward; fig. to do right
直裰	everyday robe worn at home in ancient times
直視	to look straight at
直覺	intuition
直覺性	intuitiveness
直觀	direct observation; directly perceived through the senses; intuitive
直角	a right angle
直角三角形	right-angled triangle
直角器	a set square (carpenter's tool)
直角尺	a set square (carpenter's tool)
直角座標	rectangular coordinates; Cartesian coordinates
直言	to speak forthrightly; to talk bluntly
直言不諱	to speak bluntly (idiom); not to mince words
直言命題	categorical proposition (logic)
直話	straight talk; straightforward words
直諫	to admonish sb frankly; direct criticism
直譯	literal translation
直譯器	interpreter (computing)
直轄	to govern directly
直轄市	municipality, namely: Beijing 北京, Tianjin 天津, Shanghai 上海 and Chongqing 重慶|重庆, the first level administrative subdivision
直通	to lead directly to
直通火車	through train
直通車	"through train" (refers to the idea of retaining previous legislature after transition to Chinese rule in Hong Kong or Macao)
直連	to connect directly to
直道而行	lit. to go straight (idiom, from Analects); to act with integrity
直達	to reach (a place) directly
直達列車	through train
直達航班	direct flight
直達車	through train (or bus)
直選	direct election
直銷	to sell directly; direct sale (by a factory); direct marketing
直陳	to say straight out; to point out bluntly
直隸	Zhili, a province from Ming times until 1928, roughly corresponding to present-day Hebei
直面	to face (reality, danger etc)
直順	straight and smooth (hair etc)
直飛	to fly non-stop; to fly direct (to ...)
直飲水	water that is safe to drink directly
直餾	direct distillation
直髮	straight hair
直髮器	hair straightener
盵	surname Qi
相	each other; one another; mutually
相中	to find to one's taste; to pick (after looking at)
相乘	to multiply (math.); multiplication
相互	each other; mutual
相互作用	to interact; interaction; interplay
相互保證毀滅	mutual assured destruction
相互兼容	mutually compatible
相互關係	interrelationship
相交	(of roads, lines etc) to intersect
相交數	intersection number (math.)
相仿	similar
相伴	to accompany sb; to accompany each other
相似	similar; alike
相似性	resemblance; similarity
相似詞	synonym
相位	phase (waves)
相位差	phase difference
相依	to be interdependent
相依為命	mutually dependent for life (idiom); to rely upon one another for survival
相保	to guard each other
相信	to believe; to be convinced; to accept as true
相偕	together (literary)
相傳	to pass on; to hand down; tradition has it that ...
相像	to resemble one another; to be alike; similar
相公	lord; master; young gentleman
相冊	photo album
相切	(math.) to be tangential to each other
相加	to add up (numbers)
相助	to help one another; to come to sb's aid
相勸	to persuade; to exhort; to advise
相反	opposite; contrary
相合	to conform to; to fit with; to be compatible with
相同	identical; same
相向	facing one another; face-to-face
相吸	mutual attraction (e.g. electrostatic); to attract one another
相國	prime minister (in ancient China)
相圖	phase diagram (math.); phase portrait
相城區	Xiangcheng, a district of Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
相士	fortune-teller who uses the subject's face for his prognostication
相夫教子	to assist one's husband and educate the children (idiom)
相契	(literary) to be a good match
相好	to be intimate; close friend; paramour
相安無事	(idiom) to live together in harmony
相宜	to be suitable or appropriate
相容	compatible; consistent; to tolerate (each other)
相容條件	conditions for consistency
相對	relatively; opposite; to resist
相對位置	relative position
相對分子質量	(chemistry) relative molecular mass
相對原子質量	(chemistry) relative atomic mass
相對地址	relative address (computing)
相對密度	relative density
相對比較	relatively; comparatively
相對濕度	relative humidity
相對而言	relatively speaking; comparatively speaking
相對論	(physics) theory of relativity
相對論性	relativistic (physics)
相對象	to meet a possible marriage partner
相山區	Xiangshan, a district of Huaibei City 淮北市[Huai2 bei3 Shi4], Anhui
相左	to fail to meet each other; to conflict with each other
相差	to differ
相差不多	not much difference
相幫	to help one another; to aid
相干	relevant; to have to do with; (physics) (of light etc) coherent
相平面	phase plane (math., ordinary differential equations)
相形見絀	to pale by comparison (idiom)
相待	to treat
相得益彰	to bring out the best in each other (idiom)
相思	to yearn; to pine
相思病	lovesickness
相悖	contrary; opposite; to run counter to
相惡	to hate one another
相愛	to love each other
相愛相殺	to have a love-hate relationship with each other
相態	phase (state of matter)
相應	to correspond; answering (one another); to agree (among the part)
相戀	to love each other
相手蟹	crab of family Sesarmidae
相承	to complement one another
相投	to share common interests or views; to get along well; congenial
相抵	to balance up; to offset; to counterbalance
相持	locked in a stalemate; to confront one another
相持不下	at a stalemate; deadlocked; in unrelenting mutual opposition
相接	to merge with; interlinking; to join with
相提並論	to discuss two disparate things together (idiom); to mention on equal terms
相撞	collision; crash; to crash together
相撲	sumo wrestling; also pr. [xiang4 pu1]
相擁	to hug each other
相敬如賓	to treat each other as an honored guest (idiom)
相斥	mutual repulsion (e.g. electrostatic); to repel one another
相映成趣	to set each other off nicely
相會	to meet together
相望	to look at one another; to face each other
相架	picture frame
相框	photo frame
相機	camera (abbr. for 照相機|照相机[zhao4 xiang4 ji1]); at the opportune moment
相機而動	to wait for the opportune moment before taking action (idiom)
相機而行	to act according to the situation (idiom)
相機行事	to act as circumstances dictate (idiom)
相比	to compare
相比之下	by comparison
相沿成習	well established; accepted as a result of long usage
相濡以沫	(lit.) (of fish) to moisten each other with spittle (when out of the water) (idiom)
相熟	to be familiar with one another; to know each other well
相爭	to vie against one another; to fight each other; mutual aggression
相片	image; photograph
相生	to engender one another
相異	different; dissimilar
相當	equivalent to; appropriate; considerably
相當於	equivalent to
相看	to look at one another; to take a good look at; to look upon
相碰撞	to collide with one another
相稱	to match; to suit; mutually compatible
相空間	phase space (math., ordinary differential equations)
相符	to match; to tally
相等	equal; equally; equivalent
相簿	photo album
相約	to agree (on a meeting place, date etc); to reach agreement
相紙	photographic paper
相繼	in succession; following closely
相罵	to hurl insults at each other
相聚	to meet together; to assemble
相聯	to interact; interrelated
相聲	comic dialogue; sketch; crosstalk
相背	contrary; opposite
相若	on a par with; comparable to
相處	to be in contact (with sb); to associate; to interact
相術	physiognomy
相襯	to contrast; to set off one another; to go well with
相見	to see each other; to meet in person
相見恨晚	to regret not having met earlier (idiom); It is nice to meet you finally.
相視	to look at each other
相視而笑	(idiom) to look at each other and smile
相親	blind date
相親相愛	(idiom) (of siblings, spouses etc) very close to each other; inseparable; devoted to each other
相親角	"matchmaking corner", a gathering in a park for parents who seek marriage partners for their adult children by connecting with other parents who put up posters displaying their unmarried child's details
相覷	to look at each other
相角	photo corner (used to mount a photo in an album); (math.) phase angle
相認	to know each other; to recognize; to identify
相識	to get to know each other; acquaintance
相貌	facial features; looks
相距	distance apart; separated by a given distance
相較	to compare
相輔相成	(idiom) to complement one another
相輕	to hold each other in low regard
相迎	to welcome sb; to greet sb
相近	close; similar to
相通	interlinked; connected; communicating
相逢	to meet (by chance); to come across
相連	to link; to join; link
相遇	to meet; to encounter; to come across
相違	to conflict with (an idea or opinion etc)
相鄰	neighbor; adjacent
相配	to match; to fit; to pair well
相配人	match (couple); persons well suited for each other
相配物	thing that is well suited; pet animal that suits its owner
相間	to alternate; to follow one another
相關	related; relevant; pertinent
相關性	correlation
相隔	separated by (distance or time etc)
相隨	to tag along (with sb)
相面	fortune telling based on the subject's face
相類	similar
相體裁衣	lit. tailor the clothes to fit the body (idiom); fig. act according to real circumstances
盹	doze; nap
盻	to glare at
盼	to hope for; to long for; to expect
盼星星盼月亮	to wish for the stars and the moon; to have unreal expectations
盼望	to hope for; to look forward to
盼睞	your favors; your consideration
盼覆	expecting your reply (epistolary style)
盼頭	hopes; good prospects
盾	shield (CL:面[mian4]); (currency) Vietnamese dong
盾構機	tunnel boring machine
盾牌	shield; pretext; excuse
盾牌座	Scutum (constellation)
省	(bound form) to scrutinize; (bound form) to reflect (on one's conduct)
省事	perceptive; understanding; (archaic) to handle administrative work
省份	province
省便	convenient
省儉	frugal; thrifty
省力	to save labor; to save effort
省勁	to save labor; to save effort
省卻	to save; to get rid of (so saving space)
省去	to omit; to dispense with; to make unnecesary
省吃儉用	(idiom) to live frugally
省垣	a provincial capital
省城	provincial capital
省委	provincial Party committee
省字號	an apostrophe (punct.)
省察	to examine
省市	provinces and cities
省得	to avoid; so as to save (money or time)
省心	to cause no trouble; to be spared worry; worry-free
省悟	to wake up to reality; to come to oneself; to realize
省會	provincial capital
省油的燈	sb who is easy to deal with (usu. in the negative, e.g. after 不是[bu4 shi4])
省治	a provincial capital
省流	to conserve mobile data; to minimize mobile data usage (abbr. for 省流量[sheng3 liu2 liang4])
省港澳	abbr. for the economic region of Guangdong Province (or Guangzhou), Hong Kong and Macao
省界	provincial boundary
省略	to leave out; an omission
省略符號	apostrophe
省略號	(punctuation) ellipsis
省直管縣	direct management of a county by the province (PRC administrative reform)
省省吧	(coll.) Don't waste your breath.; Save it!
省稱	abbreviation
省立	(of an institution) provincial; run by a provincial government
省級	(administrative) province-level
省視	to call upon; to inspect
省親	to visit one's parents
省轄市	provincial city
省錢	to save money
省長	governor of a province
省電	to save electricity
省音	(linguistics) elision
眄	to ogle at; to squint at
眄眄	dull-looking; looking askance
眄睞	to cast loving glances
眄睨	to look askance
眄視	to give a sidelong glance
眅	show the whites of eyes
眇	blind in one eye; blind; tiny
眇眇	sublime; solitary; distant or remote
眈	used in 眈眈[dan1 dan1]
眈眈	(to gaze) intently
眉	eyebrow; upper margin
眉來眼去	(idiom) to make eyes; to exchange flirting glances with sb
眉宇	(literary) forehead; (literary) countenance; features
眉尖	eyebrows (esp. as sth knitted 皺|皱[zhou4] into a frown)
眉山市	Meishan, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
眉心	(the space) between the eyebrows
眉心輪	ājñā or ajna, the brow or third eye chakra 查克拉, residing in the forehead
眉批	headnotes; comments or footnotes at top of the page
眉月	waxing crescent (moon)
眉梢	tip of brow
眉毛	eyebrow
眉毛鉗	tweezers
眉毛鬍子一把抓	careless; any-old-how, regardless of the specific task
眉清目秀	pretty; with delicate features
眉目	progress; prospect of solution; sign of positive outcome
眉目傳情	to make sheep eyes at; to cast amorous glances at
眉眼	brows and eyes; appearance; looks
眉眼傳情	to give the eye to; to make eyes at
眉睫	eyebrows and eyelashes
眉端	tip of the eyebrows; top margin on a page
眉筆	eyebrow pencil (cosmetics)
眉縣	Mei County or Meixian, a county in Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
眉角	outer tip of the eyebrow; (facial) expression; (Tw) knack
眉開眼笑	brows raised in delight, eyes laughing (idiom); beaming with joy
眉間	the flat area of forehead between the eyebrows; glabella
眉間輪	ājñā or ajna, the brow or third eye chakra 查克拉, residing in the forehead
眉頭	brows
眉飛色舞	smiles of exultation; radiant with delight
眉黛	(literary) eyebrows painted with black pigment
眊	having poor eyesight
看	to look after; to take care of; to watch
看一看	to have a look
看上	to take a fancy to; to find suitable and choose; to settle on
看上去	it would appear; it seems (that)
看不中	not impressed by
看不出	can't discern
看不慣	cannot bear to see; to hate; to dislike
看不懂	unable to make sense of what one is looking at
看不清	not able to see clearly
看不見	cannot see; cannot be seen; invisible
看不起	to look down upon; to despise
看不過	cannot stand by idly and watch; unable to put up with it any longer
看不過去	cannot stand by idly and watch; unable to put up with it any longer
看不順眼	unpleasant to the eye; objectionable
看中	to have a preference for; to fancy; to choose after consideration
看人下菜碟兒	(dialect) to treat sb according to their social status, relationship with them etc (idiom)
看人行事	to treat people according to their rank and one's relationship with them (idiom)
看似	to look as if; to seem
看作	to look upon as; to regard as
看來	apparently; it seems that
看倌	dear reader; dear listener
看做	to regard as; to look upon as
看出	to make out; to see
看到	to see
看台	terrace; spectator's grandstand; viewing platform
看呆	to gape at; to stare blankly; to stare in rapture
看在	(in the expression 看在[kan4 zai4] + ... + 的份上[de5 fen4 shang5]) for the sake of ...; considering ...
看在眼裡	to observe; to take it all in
看好	to regard as having good prospects
看守	to guard; to watch over
看守所	detention center
看守者	watchman
看官	(old) (used by novelists) dear readers; (used by storytellers) dear audience members
看客	audience; spectators; onlookers
看家	to look after the house; (of skill, ability) special; outstanding
看家本領	(idiom) one's forte
看待	to look upon; to regard
看得中	to take a liking for; to fancy
看得出	can see; can tell
看得見	to be able to see; can see
看得起	to show respect for; to think highly of
看得過	presentable; passable
看情況	depending on the situation
看慣	to be used to the sight of
看懂	to understand what one is reading or watching
看成	to regard as
看戲	to watch a play
看扁	to have a low opinion of
看押	to detain; to take into custody; to imprison temporarily
看書	to read; to study
看望	to pay a visit to; to see (sb)
看板	billboard
看樣子	it seems; it looks as if
看法	way of looking at a thing; view; opinion
看淡	to regard as unimportant; to be indifferent to (fame, wealth etc)
看清	to see clearly
看準	to observe and make sure; to check
看準機會	to watch for an opportunity; to see one's chance to
看漲	(finance) bullish
看熱鬧	to enjoy watching a bustling scene; to go where the crowds are
看片	to watch a movie
看球	to watch a football game (or other ball game); Fore! (golf)
看病	to visit a doctor; to see a patient
看相	to tell fortune by reading the subject's facial features
看看	to take a look at; to examine; to survey
看破	to see through; disillusioned with; to reject (the world of mortals)
看破紅塵	(idiom) to see through the illusions of the material world (often a precursor to becoming a Buddhist monk or nun); to become disillusioned with human society
看笑話	to watch with amusement as sb makes a fool of himself
看管	to look after
看花眼	to be dazzled; to not believe one's own eyes
看菜吃飯	(lit.) to eat depending on the dish (idiom)
看菜吃飯，量體裁衣	lit. to eat depending on the dish, cut cloth according to the body (idiom)
看著不管	to stand by and pay no heed; to ignore
看著辦	to do as one sees fit
看見	to see; to catch sight of
看診	(of a doctor) to see a patient; to give a consultation
看護	to nurse; to look after; to watch over
看貶	to expect (a currency etc) to depreciate
看走眼	to make an error of judgment; to be taken in
看起來	seemingly; apparently; looks as if; appears to be; gives the impression that; seems on the face of it to be
看跌	(finance) bearish
看輕	to belittle; to scorn; to take sth lightly
看透	to understand thoroughly; to see beyond the facade
看醫生	to visit a doctor
看重	to regard as important; to value
看錯	to misinterpret what one sees or reads; to misjudge (sb)
看門人	janitor; watchman
看開	to come to accept an unpleasant fact; to get over sth; to cheer up
看頭	qualities that make sth worth seeing (or reading)
看顧	to watch over
看鳥人	a bird-watcher
看點	highlight (of an event, movie etc)
看齊	to follow sb's example; to emulate
眑	sunken eyes; deep; abstruse
眕	to restrain anger
眙	used in 盱眙[Xu1 yi2] (the name of place in Jiangsu)
眚	cataract of the eye; error
眛	blind; imperceptive
真	really; truly; indeed
真主	Allah
真主黨	Hezbollah (Lebanon Islamic group)
真事	reality; veracity; the real thing
真亮	clear
真人	a real person; Daoist spiritual master
真人不露相	the sage presents as an ordinary person (idiom)
真人版	real-life version (of some imaginary character)
真人真事	genuine people and true events
真人秀	(TV) reality show
真個	(dialect) really; truly; indeed
真值表	truth table
真假	genuine or fake; true or false
真假難辨	hard to distinguish real from imitation
真偽	true or bogus; authenticity
真偽莫辨	can't judge true or false (idiom); unable to distinguish the genuine from the fake
真傳	authentic tradition; handed-down teachings or techniques
真兇	culprit
真刀真槍	(lit.) real swords and spears (idiom)
真分數	proper fraction (with numerator < denominator, e.g. five sevenths)
真切	vivid; distinct; clear
真否定句	true negative (TN)
真命	to receive heaven's command (of Daoist immortals etc)
真品	authentic piece
真善美	truth, goodness and beauty
真如	Tathata
真姬菇	beech mushroom (Hypsizygus tessulatus)
真子集	proper subset
真容	portrait; true features; (fig.) true nature
真實	true; real
真實性	authenticity; truthfulness; veracity
真實感	the feeling that sth is genuine; sense of reality; in the flesh
真彩色	true color
真後生動物	eumetazoa; subkingdom of animals excluding sponges
真心	wholeheartedness; sincerity
真心實意	(idiom) genuine; sincere; wholehearted
真心話大冒險	The Moment of Truth (TV show); Truth or Dare (game)
真性	real; the nature of sth
真怪	odd; unusual; I can't believe that ...
真情	real situation; the truth; true emotions; true feelings
真情實意	(idiom) sincere feelings; genuine emotions
真意	real intention; true meaning; correct interpretation
真愛	true love
真憑實據	reliable evidence (idiom); conclusive proof; definitive evidence
真才實學	solid learning; real ability and learning; genuine talent
真摯	sincere; sincerity
真數	(math.) argument (of a logarithm)
真是	indeed; truly; (coll.) (used to express disapproval, annoyance etc)
真是的	Really! (interj. of annoyance or frustration)
真書	regular script (Chinese calligraphic style)
真有你的	You're really quite something!; You're just amazing!
真核	eukaryotic
真格	true; real
真格的	(coll.) serious; real; true
真棒	super!; really great; wonderful
真槍實彈	(idiom) with real guns and live ammunition; (fig.) for real (involving genuine action rather than rehearsal, simulation or theory); (coll.) to have actual sex; to go all the way
真正	genuine; real; true; really; indeed
真武	Lord of profound heaven, major Daoist deity
真版	real version (as opposed to pirated); genuine version
真牛	(slang) really cool, awesome
真率	sincere; genuine; straightforward
真理	truth
真理報	Pravda (newspaper)
真理部	Ministry of Truth, a fictional ministry from George Orwell's novel Nineteen Eighty-Four
真番郡	Zhenpan commandery (108 BC-c. 300 AD), one of four Han dynasty commanderies in north Korea
真的	really; truly; indeed; real; true; genuine; (math.) proper
真皮	(anatomy) dermis; genuine leather
真皮層	dermis
真相	the truth about sth; the actual facts
真相大白	the whole truth is revealed (idiom); everything becomes clear
真相畢露	real face fully revealed (idiom); fig. to unmask and expose the whole truth
真真	really; in fact; genuinely
真知	real knowledge
真知灼見	penetrating insight
真確	authentic
真神	the True God
真空	(physics) vacuum; (fig.) vacuum; (slang) to not wear underwear
真空泵	vacuum pump
真空管	vacuum tube; thermionic valve
真納	(Mohammad Ali) Jinnah (founder of Pakistan)
真絲	silk; pure silk
真經	sutra; Taoist treatise
真聲	natural voice; modal voice (cf. 假聲|假声[jia3 sheng1], falsetto)
真聲最高音	(music) the highest note one can sing in a natural (non-falsetto) voice
真肯定句	true affirmative (TA)
真臘	Khmer kingdom of Kampuchea or Cambodia
真菌	fungi; fungus
真菌綱	Eumycetes (taxonomic class of fungi)
真葉	(botany) true leaf
真蜆	Corbicula leana, a species of clam
真言	true statement; incantation (translates Sanskrit: dharani 陀羅尼|陀罗尼)
真言宗	Shingon Buddhism
真詮	to explain truly (esp. of classic or religious text); true commentary
真誠	sincere; genuine; true
真諦	the real meaning; the true essence
真象	(variant of 真相[zhen1 xiang4]) the truth about sth; the actual facts
真跡	authentic (painting or calligraphy); genuine work (of famous artist)
真身	the real body (of Buddha or a God); true effigy
真道	the true way
真釋	true explanation; genuine reason
真金不怕火煉	True gold fears no fire. (idiom)
真金白銀	real money; cold, hard cash
真際	the truth; reality
真面目	true identity; true colors
真題	questions from previous years' exams
真香	awesome (expression of approval used hypocritically after bitching about the exact same thing earlier) (neologism c. 2014)
真髓	essence
真鯛	porgy (Pagrosomus major); red sea bream
真龍天子	(idiom) (honorific) True Dragon, Son of Heaven; the rightful emperor
眠	to sleep; to hibernate
眢	inflamed eyelids; parched
眣	prominent eyes
眥	(anatomy) corner of the eye; canthus
眨	to blink; to wink
眨巴	to blink; to wink
眨眼	to blink; to wink; in the twinkling of an eye
眨眼睛	wink
眩	(literary) dizzy; (literary) dazzled; bewildered
眩人	wizard; magician
眩惑	confusion; unable to escape from infatuation or addiction
眩暈	vertigo; dizziness; fainting
眩耀	giddy; confused
眩麗	charming; enchanting; captivating
眭	to have a deep or piercing gaze
眯	to blind (as with dust); Taiwan pr. [mi3]
眯縫	to squint
眳	space between the eyebrows and the eyelashes
眳睛	unhappy; dissatisfied
眴	dazzled; dizzy
眵	(bound form) sleep (dried mucus in the corner of the eye)
眵目糊	(dialect) sleep (dried mucus in the corner of the eye)
眶	(bound form) eye socket; Taiwan pr. [kuang1]
眷	(bound form) one's family, esp. wife and children
眷區	married quarters; residential quarters for men with families
眷屬	family member; husband and wife
眷念	to think fondly of
眷愛	to love; sentimentally attached to
眷懷	to yearn for; to miss
眷戀	to miss; to long for; to remember with longing
眷村	military dependents' village (community established in Taiwan for Nationalist soldiers and their dependents after the KMT retreated from the mainland in 1949)
眷眷之心	nostalgia; home-sickness; longing for departed beloved
眷註	to think fondly of sb
眷顧	to care for; to show concern for
眸	pupil (of the eye); eye
眸子	pupil of the eye
眹	pupil
眺	to gaze into the distance
眺望	to survey the scene from an elevated position
眼	eye (CL:隻|只[zhi1],雙|双[shuang1])
眼下	now; at present; (anatomy) subocular
眼不見為淨	what remains unseen is deemed to be clean
眼不見，心不煩	what the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over (idiom)
眼不轉睛	with fixed attention (idiom)
眼中	in (sb's) eyes
眼中刺	a thorn in one's eye; fig. a thorn in one's flesh
眼中釘	a thorn in one's side
眼中釘，肉中刺	a thorn in one's side
眼乾症	(medicine) xerophthalmia; dry eye syndrome
眼光	gaze; insight; foresight
眼光短	short-sighted
眼冒金星	to see stars; dazed
眼前	before one's eyes; now; at present
眼前一亮	(one's) eyes light up; to be impressed by what one sees
眼力	eyesight; strength of vision; the ability to make discerning judgments
眼力見	(dialect) ability to read situations and respond appropriately
眼力見兒	erhua form of 眼力見|眼力见[yan3 li4 jian4]
眼動	eye movement
眼動技術	eye movement technology; eye-tracking technology
眼圈	rim of the eye; eye socket
眼圈紅了	to be on the verge of tears
眼壓	intraocular pressure
眼尖	to have good eyes
眼尾	outer corner of the eye
眼屎	sleep (dried mucus in the corner of the eye)
眼岔	to mistake for sth else
眼巴巴	waiting anxiously; impatient
眼底	fundus of the eye (containing the choroid, retina, optic nerve etc)
眼底下	in front of one's eyes; in full view as a panorama; right now
眼底鏡	ophthalmoscope; funduscope
眼影	eye shadow (cosmetics)
眼成穿	to watch in anticipation (idiom)
眼房	camera oculi; aqueous chamber of the eye
眼房水	aqueous humor
眼明手快	sharp-sighted and deft
眼時	(dialect) now; at present
眼暈	to feel dizzy
眼柄	eye stalk (of crustacean etc)
眼梢	corner of eye near temple
眼毒	venomous glance; hostile gaze; sharp-eyed
眼氣	(dialect) to envy; to be jealous
眼波	fluid glance
眼淚	tear; teardrop
眼熟	familiar-looking; to seem familiar
眼熱	to covet; envious
眼珠	one's eyes; eyeball
眼珠兒	eyeball; fig. the apple of one's eye (i.e. favorite person)
眼珠子	eyeball; fig. the apple of one's eye (i.e. favorite person)
眼球	eyeball; (fig.) attention
眼生	unfamiliar; strange-looking
眼界	(lit. and fig.) field of vision; scope; horizon
眼疾	eye disease
眼疾手快	(idiom) quick to notice and react
眼病	eye disease
眼白	white of the eye
眼皮	eyelid
眼皮子	eyelid
眼皮子底下	right in front of sb's eyes; right under sb's nose; current
眼皮子淺	short-sighted
眼皮底下	in front of one's eyes
眼目	eyes
眼看	soon; in a moment; to look on as sth happens
眼眨毛	(dialect) eyelashes
眼眵	sleep (dried mucus in the corner of the eye)
眼眶	eye socket; rim of the eye
眼眸	eyes
眼睛	eye
眼睛吃冰淇淋	(slang) (Tw) to be checking out the hotties
眼睜睜	to stare blankly; to look on helplessly; to look on unfeelingly
眼睫毛	eyelashes
眼瞎耳聾	to be deaf and blind (idiom)
眼瞓	sleepy (Cantonese); Mandarin equivalent: 睏|困[kun4]
眼瞼	eyelid
眼神	expression or emotion showing in one's eyes; meaningful glance; wink
眼神不好	to have poor eyesight
眼神不濟	to have poor eyesight
眼福	a treat for the eyes; the rare chance of seeing sth beautiful
眼科	(department of) ophthalmology
眼科學	ophthalmology
眼科醫生	ophthalmologist; eye doctor
眼穿腸斷	waiting anxiously (idiom)
眼窩	eye socket
眼簾	eyes (in literature); eyesight
眼紅	to covet; envious; jealous
眼紋噪鶥	(bird species of China) spotted laughingthrush (Ianthocincla ocellata)
眼紋黃山雀	(bird species of China) Himalayan black-lored tit (Machlolophus xanthogenys)
眼線	informer; snitch; spy
眼線液	eyeliner (cosmetics)
眼線筆	eyeliner (cosmetics)
眼罩	eye-patch; blindfold; eye mask
眼色	signal made with one's eyes; meaningful glance
眼花	dimmed eyesight; blurred; vague and unclear vision
眼花繚亂	to be dazzled
眼藥	eye drops; eye ointment
眼藥水	eye drops; eyewash
眼蟲	Euglena (genus of single-celled plant)
眼蟲藻	euglena (biology)
眼袋	puffiness under the eyes; bags under the eyes
眼裡容不得沙子	can't bear having grit in one's eye (idiom)
眼見	to see with one's own eyes; very soon
眼見得	(dialect) obviously; clearly
眼見為實	seeing is believing
眼觀六路耳聽八方	lit. the eyes watch six roads and the ears listen in all directions
眼觀四面，耳聽八方	lit. the eyes observe all sides and the ears listen in all directions (idiom)
眼角	outer or inner corner of the eye; canthus
眼角膜	cornea
眼證	eyewitness
眼距寬	orbital hypertelorism (medicine)
眼跳	twitching of eye
眼過勞	eye strain
眼鏡	spectacles; eyeglasses
眼鏡片	lens (in eyeglasses etc)
眼鏡猴	tarsier monkey
眼鏡蛇	cobra
眼電圖	electrooculograph (EOG)
眼霜	eye cream
眼風	eye signal; meaningful glance
眼饞	to covet; to envy
眼饞肚飽	to have eyes bigger than one's belly (idiom)
眼高	haughty; contemptuous; to have high expectations
眼高手低	to have high standards but little ability
眼點	eyespot (in lower creatures)
眽	to gaze; to ogle to look at
眾	abbr. for 眾議院|众议院[Zhong4 yi4 yuan4], House of Representatives
眾人	everyone
眾人拾柴火焰高	(lit.) when everybody gathers fuel, the flames are higher (proverb)
眾人敬仰	universally admired; highly esteemed by everyone
眾創空間	hackerspace; hacklab; makerspace
眾包	crowdsourcing; abbr. for 群眾外包|群众外包[qun2 zhong4 wai4 bao1]
眾叛親離	lit. people rebelling and friends deserting (idiom)
眾口一詞	all of one voice; unanimous
眾口同聲	(of people) to be of one voice (idiom); unanimous
眾口皆碑	to be praised by everyone
眾口鑠金	lit. public opinion is powerful enough to melt metal (idiom)
眾口難調	it's difficult to please everyone (idiom)
眾多	numerous
眾寡懸殊	(idiom) a great disparity in numerical strength
眾志成城	unity of will is an impregnable stronghold (idiom)
眾怒	public anger; public outrage
眾怒難犯	(idiom) one cannot afford to incur public wrath
眾所周知	(idiom) as everyone knows
眾擎易舉	many hands make light work (idiom)
眾數	(statistics) mode
眾星拱辰	lit. all the stars revolve around Polaris 北辰[Bei3 chen2] (idiom, from Analects); fig. to view sb as core figure
眾星捧月	lit. all the stars cup themselves around the moon (idiom, from Analects); fig. to view sb as core figure
眾智	crowd knowledge; collective wisdom
眾望	people's expectations
眾望所歸	(idiom) to enjoy popular support; to receive general approval
眾生	all living things
眾目昭彰	lit. the masses are sharp-eyed (idiom)
眾目睽睽	(idiom) (under) the public eye; the stares of many people
眾盲摸象	multitude of blind people touch an elephant (idiom, from Nirvana sutra 大般涅槃經|大般涅盘经[da4 ban1 Nie4 pan2 jing1]); fig. unable to see the big picture
眾矢之的	lit. target of a multitude of arrows (idiom); the butt of public criticism
眾籌	crowdfunding
眾說	various ideas; diverse opinions
眾說紛揉	lit. diverse opinions confused and divided (idiom); opinions differ
眾說紛紜	opinions differ (idiom)
眾說郛	hub for diverse opinions
眾議員	member of the House of Representatives
眾議院	lower house of bicameral assembly; House of Representatives (USA)
眾香子	allspice; Jamaican pepper (Pimenta dioica)
睃	to throw a glance at; to peer at; Taiwan pr. [jun4]
睃巡	(eyes) to scan; to glance left and right; to scrutinize
睄	to look at (old variant of 瞧[qiao2])
睅	protuberant eyes
睆	good-looking; cute
睇	(literary) to cast a sidelong glance; (dialect) to see; to look at
睊	look
睍	goggle-eyed
睎	to long for; to gaze at
睏	sleepy; tired
睏意	sleepiness; drowsiness
睏覺	(dialect) to sleep
睒	furtively glance; glittering
睖	to stare blankly; to glare
睙	to roll the eyeballs to look
睚	(literary) corner of the eye; canthus
睚眥	(literary) to glare in anger; (literary) (fig.) a small grievance
睚眥必報	lit. to seek revenge over a dirty look (idiom); fig. small-minded
睛	eye; eyeball
睜	to open (one's eyes)
睜一眼閉一眼	to turn a blind eye
睜一隻眼閉一隻眼	to turn a blind eye
睜眼	to open one's eyes
睜眼瞎	an illiterate; sb who has blurred vision; sb who is willfully blind
睜眼說瞎話	(idiom) to lie through one's teeth; to talk drivel
睜著眼睛說瞎話	(idiom) to lie through one's teeth; to talk drivel
睜開	to open (one's eyes)
睜隻眼閉隻眼	to turn a blind eye
睞	to glance; to look askance at
睟	bright eye; clear
睠	(literary) to regard with love and affection; to feel concern for (variant of 眷[juan4])
睡	to sleep; to lie down
睡午覺	to have a nap
睡回籠覺	to go back to sleep (instead of rising up in the morning); to sleep in
睡夢	sleep; slumber
睡夢中	in one's sleep
睡姿	sleeping posture
睡得著	to fall asleep; to get to sleep
睡意	sleepiness
睡懶覺	to sleep in
睡房	bedroom
睡椅	couch
睡相	sleeping posture
睡眠	sleep; to sleep; (computing) to enter sleep mode
睡眠呼吸暫停	sleep apnea
睡眠失調	sleep disorder
睡眠蟲	trypanosome
睡眼惺忪	(idiom) sleepy-eyed; still half asleep
睡美人	Sleeping Beauty
睡著	to fall asleep
睡蓮	water lily
睡衣	night clothes; pajamas
睡衣褲	pajamas
睡袋	sleeping bag
睡袍	nightgown
睡裙	nightgown
睡覺	to go to bed; to sleep
睡過頭	to oversleep
睡鄉	sleep; the land of Nod; dreamland
睡醒	to wake up
睡飽	to get enough sleep; to have a good night's sleep
睡鼠	dormouse
睢	surname Sui
睢寧縣	Suining, a county in Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
睢縣	Sui County or Suixian, a county in Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
睢陽區	Suiyang, a district of Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
睢鳩	plover (Charadrius morinellus); dotterell
督	(bound form) to supervise
督促	to supervise and urge completion of a task; to urge on
督學	school inspector
督察	to supervise; to superintend; inspector
督察大隊	censorship brigade (PRC)
督導	to direct; to oversee
督工	to oversee workers; overseer; foreman
督建	to supervise and construct; constructed under the supervision of
督戰	to oversee combat operations
督撫	governor general 總督|总督[zong3 du1] and inspector general 巡撫|巡抚[xun2 fu3]
督標	army regiment at the disposal of province governor-general
督責	to supervise; to reprimand
督軍	provincial military governor during the early Republic of China era (1911-1949 AD)
督辦	to oversee; to supervise; superintendent
督進去	(slang) (Tw) to stick "it" in; to thrust inside
督龜	(Tw) to doze off (from Taiwanese 盹龜, Tai-lo pr. [tuh-ku])
睥	used in 睥睨[pi4 ni4]; Taiwan pr. [bi4]
睥睨	(literary) to look disdainfully out of the corner of one's eye; to look askance at
睦	amicable; harmonious
睦親	(literary) close relative (within a clan)
睦誼	cordiality; friendship
睦鄰	to get on well with one's neighbors
睦鄰政策	good-neighbor policy
睨	to look askance at
睨視	to look askance
睪	(archaic) to observe; to spy on
睪丸	testicle
睪丸扭轉	(medicine) testicular torsion
睪丸激素	testosterone
睪丸素	testosterone
睪丸酮	testosterone
睪酮	testosterone
睫	eyelashes
睫毛	eyelashes
睫毛膏	mascara
睫狀體	ciliary body (in the eye, containing the focusing muscles)
睬	to pay attention; to take notice of; to care for
睯	gloomy; depressed
睹	to observe; to see
睹物思人	(idiom) to fondly remember a person on seeing sth one associates with them
睺	(appears as phonetic ho, especially in words taken from Sanskrit)
睽	separated; stare
睿	astute; perspicacious; farsighted
睿智	wise and farsighted
瞀	indistinct vision; dim
瞄	to take aim; (fig.) to aim one's looks at; to glance at
瞄一眼	to shoot a glance at
瞄準	to take aim at; to target
瞄準具	sighting device; sight (for a firearm etc)
瞅	(dialect) to look at
瞅睬	to pay attention to
瞅見	to see
瞇	to narrow one's eyes; to squint; (dialect) to take a nap
瞇眼	to narrow one's eyes (as when smiling or squinting)
瞇瞇眼	squinty eyes
瞈矇	blurred vision
瞋	(literary) to stare angrily; to glare
瞌	used in 瞌睡[ke1 shui4]
瞌睡	drowsy; to doze; to nap
瞌睡蟲	mythological insect that makes people doze off; (fig.) drowsiness
瞍	blind
瞎	blind; groundlessly; foolishly
瞎吹	to boast; to shoot one's mouth off
瞎子	blind person
瞎子摸象	blind people touch an elephant (idiom, from Nirvana sutra 大般涅槃經|大般涅盘经[da4 ban1 Nie4 pan2 jing1]); fig. unable to see the big picture
瞎弄	to fool around with; to mess with
瞎忙	to putter around; to work to no avail
瞎扯	to talk irresponsibly; to talk nonsense
瞎扯蛋	to talk irresponsibly; to talk nonsense
瞎拼	shopping as a fun pastime (loanword) (Tw)
瞎指揮	to give nonsensical instructions; to issue orders out of ignorance
瞎掰	(coll.) to talk nonsense; to fool around
瞎搞	to fool around; to mess with; to do sth without a plan
瞎晃	to roam about; to monkey around
瞎混	to muddle along; to live aimlessly
瞎猜	to make a wild guess; blind guess
瞎眼	to be blind
瞎編	to fabricate (a story)
瞎編亂造	random lies and falsehoods
瞎話	untruth; lie
瞎說	to talk drivel
瞎貓碰上死耗子	a blind cat finds a dead mouse (idiom); blind luck
瞎逛	to wander aimlessly
瞎鬧	to make a scene; to fool around; to behave foolishly
瞏	(literary) to gaze in terror; (literary) alone; unaided
瞑	to close (the eyes)
瞑想	to muse; to think deeply; contemplation
瞑目	to close one's eyes
瞑眩	dizziness, nausea etc brought on as a side effect of drug treatment (Chinese medicine)
瞓	to sleep (Cantonese); Mandarin equivalent: 睡[shui4]
瞓覺	to sleep (Cantonese); Mandarin equivalent: 睡覺|睡觉[shui4 jiao4]
瞕	cataract in the eye
瞘	to sink in (of eyes)
瞘瞜	to sink in (of eyes)
瞜	to glance at
瞞	to conceal from; to keep (sb) in the dark
瞞上欺下	to deceive one's superiors and bully one's subordinates (idiom)
瞞不過	cannot conceal (a matter) from (sb)
瞞哄	to deceive; to cheat (sb)
瞞報	to conceal or deceive in a report
瞞天大謊	enormous lie; whopper
瞞天過海	to cross the sea by a trick (idiom)
瞞心昧己	to blot out one's conscience
瞞騙	to deceive; to conceal
瞟	to cast a glance
瞠	stare at sth beyond reach
瞠目	to stare
瞠目以對	to return only a blank stare; to stare back
瞠目結舌	(idiom) dumbfounded; flabbergasted; stunned
瞢	eyesight obscured; to feel ashamed
瞤	wink; twinkle; very short time
瞤息	in a flash; twinkling; ephemeral
瞥	to shoot a glance; glance; to appear in a flash
瞥見	to glimpse
瞧	to look at; to see; to see (a doctor)
瞧不起	to look down upon; to hold in contempt
瞧著辦	to do as one sees fit; It's up to you.
瞧見	to see
瞪	to open (one's eyes) wide; to stare at; to glare at
瞪眼	to open one's eyes wide; to stare; to glare (at sb)
瞪羚	gazelle
瞪鞋搖滾	shoegaze (music genre)
瞫	surname Shen
瞬	to wink
瞬息	in a flash; twinkling; ephemeral
瞬息之間	(idiom) in the wink of an eye; in a flash
瞬息萬變	in an instant a myriad changes (idiom); rapid substantial change
瞬態	(physics) (attributive) transient
瞬時	instantaneous
瞬時輻射	prompt radiation
瞬發中子	prompt neutron
瞬發輻射	prompt radiation
瞬膜	nictitating membrane (zoology)
瞬間	in an instant; in a flash
瞬間轉移	teleportation
瞬霎	in a blink; in a twinkling
瞭	(bound form) clear in one's mind; to understand clearly
瞭哨	to go on sentry duty; to stand guard
瞭望	to look into the distance (esp. from a height); to keep a lookout
瞭望哨	lookout post
瞭望塔	watchtower; observation tower
瞭望臺	observation platform; lookout platform
瞭然	to understand clearly; evident
瞰	to look down from a height; to spy on sth
瞰望	to overlook; to watch from above
瞰臨	to overlook; to watch from above
瞳	pupil of the eye
瞳人	pupil (of the eye)
瞳仁	pupil of the eye
瞳孔	pupil (of the eye)
瞳眸	pupil of the eye; one's eyes
瞳距	pupillary distance (PD)
瞵	to stare at
瞷	to spy
瞻	to gaze; to view
瞻仰	to revere; to admire
瞻前顧後	lit. to look forward and back (idiom)
瞻拜	to worship; to gaze with reverence
瞻望	to look far ahead; to look forward (to)
瞻禮日	the Lord's Day; Sunday
瞻顧	to look forward and back cautiously
瞼	eyelid
瞼腺炎	(medicine) stye; hordeolum
瞽	blind; undiscerning
瞽者	(literary) blind person
瞽闍	blind monk; refers to famous blind historian 左丘明[Zuo3 Qiu1 ming2]
瞿	startled; Taiwan pr. [ju4]
瞿塘峽	Qutang Gorge, 8 km long gorge on the Changjiang or Yangtze in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4], the upper of the Three Gorges 三峽|三峡[San1 Xia2]
瞿曇	Gautama, surname of the Siddhartha, the historical Buddha
瞿秋白	Qu Qiubai (1899-1935), politician, Soviet expert of the Chinese communists at time of Soviet influence, publisher and Russian translator, captured and executed by Guomindang at the time of the Long March
矇	to deceive; to cheat; to hoodwink
矇混	to deceive; to hoodwink; Taiwan pr. [meng1 hun4]
矇混過關	to get away with it; to slip through; to bluff one's way out
矇矇亮	dawn; the first glimmer of light
矇矇黑	dusk
矇矓	(of vision) fuzzy
矇頭轉向	to lose one's bearings; utterly confused
矇騙	to hoodwink; to deceive; to dupe sb
矉	to glare angrily; to open the eyes with anger; to knit the brows
矍	to glance fearfully
矍鑠	hale and hearty
矓	used in 矇矓|蒙眬[meng2 long2]
矔	brilliant (of eyes)
矗	lofty; upright
矗立	to tower; standing tall and upright (of large building)
矚	to gaze at; to stare at
矚望	to look forward to
矚目	to focus attention upon
矛	spear; lance; pike
矛斑蝗鶯	(bird species of China) lanceolated warbler (Locustella lanceolata)
矛柄	shaft
矛盾	contradiction; conflicting views; contradictory
矛紋草鶥	(bird species of China) Chinese babax (Pterorhinus lanceolatus)
矛隼	(bird species of China) gyrfalcon (Falco rusticolus)
矛頭	spearhead; barb; an attack or criticism
矛頭指向	to target sb or sth (for attack, criticism etc)
矜	to boast; to esteem; to sympathize
矜功不立	boasts a lot, but nothing comes of it (idiom)
矜持	reserved; aloof
矜貴	high-born; noble; aristocratic
矞	grand; elegant; propitious
矟	lance
矠	(old) spear
矢	arrow; dart; straight
矢口否認	to deny flatly
矢誌	to take an oath to do sth; to pledge; to vow
矢量	(math.) vector
矣	classical final particle, similar to modern 了[le5]
知	to know; to be aware
知之甚微	to know very little about
知乎	Zhihu, Chinese Q&A website modeled on Quora, at zhihu.com, launched in Jan 2011
知了	cicada (onom.)
知了猴	(coll.) newly-emerged cicada nymph
知交	intimate friend
知人善任	(idiom) expert at appointing people according to their abilities; to put the right people in the right places
知人知面不知心	one may know a person for a long time without understanding his true nature (idiom)
知人者智，自知者明	those who understand others are intelligent, but those who know themselves are truly wise (idiom, from Laozi's 道德經|道德经[Dao4 de2 jing1])
知其不可而為之	to keep going resolutely despite knowing the task is impossible (idiom)
知其然而不知其所以然	(saying) to know that it is so but not why it is so
知冷知熱	to know whether others are cold or hot (idiom); to be very considerate
知名	well-known; famous
知名人士	public figure; celebrity
知名度	reputation; profile; familiarity in the public consciousness
知子莫若父	nobody understands one's son better than his father (idiom)
知州	senior provincial government official in dynastic China
知己	to know oneself; to be intimate or close; intimate friend
知己知彼	know yourself, know your enemy (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3])
知己知彼，百戰不殆	know yourself and know your enemy, and you will never be defeated (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3])
知府	prefectural magistrate (during Tang to Qing times)
知彼知己	to know the enemy and know oneself (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War")
知彼知己，百戰不殆	knowing the enemy and yourself will get you unscathed through a hundred battles (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War")
知心	caring; intimate
知恥	to have a sense of shame
知恩不報	ungrateful
知悉	to know; to be informed of
知情	to know the facts; to understand; to be familiar with the situation
知情人	person in the know; insider; informed source
知情同意	informed consent
知情權	right to know
知慳識儉	(idiom) to know how to be economical
知易行難	easy to grasp but difficult to put into practice (idiom)
知曉	to know; to understand
知更鳥	redbreast; robin
知書達理	educated and well-balanced (idiom)
知會	to inform; to tell; to notify
知母	Anemarrhena asphodeloides; rhyzome of Anemarrhena (used in TCM)
知法犯法	to know the law and break it (idiom); consciously going against the rules
知無不言，言無不盡	(lit.) not hiding anything he knows, not stopping before he has said it through (idiom)
知禮	to be well-mannered
知縣	county head magistrate (old)
知覺	perception; consciousness
知覺力	ability to perceive; perceptivity; sentience
知識	knowledge; intellectual
知識共享	Creative Commons
知識分子	intellectual; intelligentsia
知識寶庫	treasure house of knowledge
知識工程師	knowledge worker
知識庫	knowledge base
知識產權	intellectual property rights (law)
知識界	intellectual circles; intelligentsia
知識論	epistemology
知識越多越反動	the more knowledgeable, the more reactionary (absurd anti-intellectual slogan attributed after the event to the Gang of Four 四人幫|四人帮[Si4 ren2 bang1])
知識青年	educated youth; young intellectual
知識面	breadth of knowledge
知趣	to act tactfully; tactful; discreet
知足	content with one's situation; to know contentment (hence happiness)
知足常樂	satisfied with what one has (idiom)
知遇之恩	lit. the kindness of recognizing sb's worth and employing him (idiom)
知過改過	to acknowledge one's faults and correct them (idiom)
知道	to know; to become aware of; also pr. [zhi1dao5]
知道了	OK!; Got it!
知錯能改	to recognize one's mistakes and be able to reform oneself (idiom)
知難而退	(lit.) to sound out the difficulties and retreat to avoid defeat (idiom)
知青	educated youth (esp. those sent to work in rural areas during the Cultural Revolution) (abbr. for 知識青年|知识青年[zhi1 shi5 qing1 nian2])
知音	intimate friend; soul mate
矧	(interrog.)
矨	short and small
矩	carpenter's square; rule; regulation
矩尺	carpenter's square
矩尺座	Norma (constellation)
矩形	rectangle
矩陣	(math.) matrix
矬	short; dwarfish
矬子裡拔將軍	lit. to choose a general among the dwarves (idiom)
短	short; brief; to lack
短中抽長	to make the best of a bad job
短促	short in time; fleeting; brief
短信	text message; SMS
短倉	short position (finance)
短傳	short pass (in ball game)
短債	short-term loan
短兵相接	lit. short-weaponed soldiery fight one another (idiom); fierce hand-to-hand infantry combat
短劇	short play; sketch; skit
短劍	dagger
短句	clause
短吻鱷	alligator
短命	to die young; short-lived
短命鬼	sb who dies prematurely
短嘴山椒鳥	(bird species of China) short-billed minivet (Pericrocotus brevirostris)
短嘴豆雁	(bird species of China) tundra bean goose (Anser serrirostris)
短嘴金絲燕	(bird species of China) Himalayan swiftlet (Aerodramus brevirostris)
短多	good prospects in the short term (finance)
短小精悍	(of a person) short but plucky (idiom)
短少	to be short of the full amount
短尾信天翁	(bird species of China) short-tailed albatross (Phoebastria albatrus)
短尾矮袋鼠	quokka (Setonix brachyurus)
短尾賊鷗	(bird species of China) parasitic jaeger (Stercorarius parasiticus)
短尾鴉雀	(bird species of China) short-tailed parrotbill (Suthora davidiana)
短尾鶯	(bird species of China) Asian stubtail (Urosphena squameiceps)
短尾鷦鶥	(bird species of China) streaked wren-babbler (Gypsophila brevicaudata)
短尾鷯鶥	(bird species of China) rufous-throated wren-babbler (Spelaeornis caudatus)
短尾鸌	(bird species of China) short-tailed shearwater (Ardenna tenuirostris)
短尾鸚鵡	(bird species of China) vernal hanging parrot (Loriculus vernalis)
短工	temporary job; odd job; seasonal worker
短打扮	clothing that exposes the arms and legs (e.g. shorts, sleeveless top); to wear such clothing
短指	brachydactylism (genetic abnormality of short or missing fingers)
短文	short piece; article; short essay
短斤缺兩	to give short weight
短時儲存	short-term storage; store
短時間	short term; short time
短暫	of short duration; brief; momentary
短期	short-term
短期融資	short-term financing
短板	short stave of the barrel (which allows the contents to escape)
短欠	to fall short in one's payments; to lack; to be short of
短歌	ballad
短波	shortwave (radio)
短波長	short wavelength
短淺	narrow and shallow
短片	short film; video clip
短程	short range
短程線	a geodesic
短空	poor prospects in the short term (finance)
短笛	piccolo
短篇小說	short story
短簡	brief
短粗	stocky (short and robust)
短線	short term
短缺	shortage
短耳鴞	(bird species of China) short-eared owl (Asio flammeus)
短腿獵犬	dachshund; basset hound
短至	the winter solstice
短處	shortcoming; defect; fault
短衣	short garment; short jacket
短衣幫	lit. short jacket party; working people; the toiling masses
短袖	short sleeves; short-sleeved shirt
短褲	short pants; shorts
短襪	sock
短見	short-sightedness; suicide (esp. in 尋短見|寻短见[xun2 duan3 jian4])
短視	(usually fig.) shortsighted; myopic
短視近利	to be focused on short-term gain
短視頻	short video; video clip
短訊	SMS; text message
短訓班	short training course
短語	phrase (grammar)
短趾鵰	(bird species of China) short-toed snake eagle (Circaetus gallicus)
短跑	sprint (race)
短距起落飛機	short takeoff and landing aircraft
短距離	short distance; a stone's throw away
短路	short circuit
短靴	ankle boots
短髮	short hair
矮	(of a person) short; (of a wall etc) low
矮人	dwarf
矮個兒	a person of short stature; a short person
矮凳	low stool
矮化	(plant pathology) to become stunted
矮半截	to be inferior to; to be of a lower grade than
矮呆病	cretinism
矮地茶	(loanword) Japanese ardisia (Ardisia japonica) (herb)
矮墩墩	pudgy; dumpy; stumpy
矮壯素	chlormequat chloride; cycocel
矮子	short person; dwarf
矮子裡拔將軍	lit. choose a general from among the dwarfs
矮小	short and small; low and small; undersized
矮小精悍	short but intrepid (idiom)
矮星	dwarf star
矮林	coppice; brushwood
矮桿品種	short-stalked variety; short straw variety
矮楊梅	dwarf bayberry (Myrica nana)
矮樹	short tree; bush; shrub
矮油	(slang) alternative for 哎呦[ai1 you1] "oh my!"
矮瓜	eggplant (Cantonese)
矮矬	short (in stature)
矮胖	short and stout; dumpy; roly-poly
矮腳羅傘	Ardisia villosa
矮莖朱砂根	short-stem Ardisia (Ardisia brevicaulis)
矮行星	dwarf planet
矮醜窮	(Internet slang) (of a man) unmarriageable (lit. short, ugly and poor)
矮鹿	Siberian roe deer (Capreolus pygargus)
矮黑人	Negrito
矯	to correct; to rectify; to redress
矯健	strong and healthy; vigorous
矯味劑	corrective agent; flavoring agent
矯形	orthopedic (e.g. surgery)
矯形外科	orthopedic surgery
矯形牙套	orthodontic brace
矯形醫生	orthopedic doctor
矯情	(Beijing dialect) argumentative; unreasonable
矯捷	vigorous and nimble; athletic
矯揉造作	pretension; affectation; putting on artificial airs
矯枉過正	to overcorrect (idiom); to overcompensate
矯正	to correct
矯正透鏡	correcting lens
矯治	to correct (e.g. sight or hearing); to rectify; to cure
矯直	to straighten; (fig.) to mend one's ways
矯直機	(manufacturing) straightening machine; straightener
矯矯	gallant; brave; preeminent
矯詔	the pretense of acting on imperial order
矯飾	to put on airs; to pretend sth is better than it is; affectation
矰	arrow with a streamer
矱	standard; norm; Taiwan pr. [huo4]
石	dry measure for grain equal to ten dou 斗[dou3]; one hundred liters
石井	Ishii (Japanese surname)
石作	masonry workshop
石像	stone statue
石像鬼	gargoyle; grotesque
石刁柏	asparagus
石刑	stoning (execution method)
石刻	stone inscription; carved stone
石勒	Shi Le, founder of Later Zhao of the Sixteen Kingdoms 後趙|后赵[Hou4 Zhao4] (319-350)
石化	to petrify; petrochemical industry
石化廠	petrochemical plant
石匠	stonemason
石南屬	heather
石南樹	heath
石南花	heather (Ericaceae)
石印	lithography; lithographic printing
石原慎太郎	Ishihara Shintarō (1932-), Japanese author and politician, governor of Tokyo 1999-2012
石台縣	Shitai, a county in Chizhou City 池州市[Chi2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
石嘴山市	Shizuishan, prefecture-level city in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 寧夏回族自治區|宁夏回族自治区[Ning2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
石器	stone tool; stone implement
石器時代	Stone Age
石城縣	Shicheng, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
石塊	stone; rock
石墨	black lead; graphite; plumbago
石墨烯	graphene
石墨碳	graphite carbon
石女	female suffering absence or atresia of vagina (as birth defect)
石子	small stone; gravel
石子兒	erhua form of 石子[shi2 zi3]
石家莊市	Shijiazhuang, prefecture-level city and capital of Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
石屎	(Cantonese) concrete
石屎森林	(dialect) concrete jungle
石屏縣	Shiping, a county in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
石峰區	Shifeng, a district of Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
石崗	Shek Kong (area in Hong Kong)
石川	Ishikawa (Japanese surname and place name)
石工	stonemasonry; stonemason
石庫門	"shikumen" style architecture: traditional (ca. 19th century) residences with courtyards, once common in Shanghai
石庭	rock garden
石弩	catapult; ballista (siege catapult firing stone blocks)
石投大海	to disappear like a stone dropped into the sea
石拐區	Shiguai, a district of Baotou City 包頭市|包头市[Bao1 tou2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
石敢當	stone tablet erected to ward off evil spirits
石斑魚	grouper (Portuguese: garoupa); also called 鮨
石斛	noble dendrobium (Dendrobium nobile)
石景山區	Shijingshan, an inner district of west Beijing
石板	slab; flagstone; slate
石板瓦	slate tile
石板路	road or pavement laid with flagstones
石林	Stone Forest, notable set of limestone formations in Yunnan
石林彝族自治縣	Shilin Yi Autonomous County, in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
石柱	Shizhu Tujia Autonomous County in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
石柱土家族自治縣	Shizhu Tujia Autonomous County in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
石柱縣	Shizhu Tujia autonomous county in Qianjiang suburbs of Chongqing municipality
石棉	asbestos
石棉瓦	asbestos roofing sheet (corrugated)
石棉縣	Shimian, a county in Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
石棺	sarcophagus
石楠	Chinese photinia (Photinia serratifolia)
石榴	pomegranate
石榴石	garnet (red gemstone Mg3Al2Si3O12)
石樓縣	Shilou, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
石沉大海	lit. to throw a stone and see it sink without trace in the sea (idiom)
石河子	Shihezi, sub-prefecture-level city in Northern Xinjiang
石河子市	Shixenze shehiri (Shixenze city) or Shíhézǐ subprefecture level city in north Xinjiang
石油	oil; petroleum
石油化學	petrochemistry
石油蠟	petroleum wax
石油輸出國組織	Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)
石油醚	petroleum ether
石泉縣	Shiquan, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
石洞	cave; cavern
石渠	Sêrxü county (Tibetan: ser shul rdzong) in Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州, Sichuan (formerly in Kham province of Tibet)
石渠縣	Sêrxü, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
石渠閣	cabinet meeting in 51 BC that established the five classics of Confucianism 五經|五经[Wu3 jing1] as state canon
石渠閣議	cabinet meeting in 51 BC that established the five classics of Confucianism 五經|五经[Wu3 jing1] as state canon
石渣	gravel
石濤	Shi Tao (1642-1707), Chinese landscape painter and poet
石火	(literary) a spark struck from flint
石灰	lime (calcium oxide)
石灰岩	limestone
石灰石	limestone
石灰華	travertine (geology); tufa (a type of banded marble)
石炭	coal (old)
石炭井	Shitanjing subdistrict of Dawukou district 大武口區|大武口区[Da4 wu3 kou3 qu1] of Shizuishan city 石嘴山市[Shi2 zui3 shan1 shi4], Ningxia
石炭井區	Shitanjing subdistrict of Dawukou district 大武口區|大武口区[Da4 wu3 kou3 qu1] of Shizuishan city 石嘴山市[Shi2 zui3 shan1 shi4], Ningxia
石炭系	carboniferous system; coal measure (geology)
石炭紀	Carboniferous (geological period 354-292m years ago)
石炭酸	phenol C6H5OH; same as 苯酚
石片	slab
石狀	stony
石獅子	guardian lion, a lion statue traditionally placed at the entrance of Chinese imperial palaces, imperial tombs, temples etc
石獅市	Shishi, a county-level city in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
石玉昆	Shi Yukun (c. 1810-1871), Qing pinghua 評話|评话[ping2 hua4] master storyteller
石田	Ishida (Japanese surname and place name)
石破天驚	earth-shattering; breakthrough; remarkable and original work
石硪	flat stone with ropes attached, used to ram the ground
石碑	stele; stone tablet (for inscription)
石磙	stone roller
石磨	grindstone
石窟	rock cave; grotto; cliff caves (often with Buddhist statues)
石竹	China pink; Dianthus chinensis (botany)
石竹屬	Dianthus genus (carnations and pinks)
石竹目	Class Magnoliopsida (biology)
石竹科	Caryophyllaceae family (carnations and pinks)
石筍	stalagmite
石粉	talcum powder
石罅	a crack in a rock
石腦油	naphtha
石膏	gypsum CaSO4·2(H2O); plaster; plaster cast (for a broken bone)
石膏牆板	drywall; gypsum wallboard; plasterboard
石膏繃帶	plaster cast
石舫	Marble Boat, famous pavilion
石花菜	Gelidium amansii, species of red algae from which agar is extracted
石英	quartz
石英脈	quartz vein
石英錶	quartz watch
石英鐘	quartz clock
石英鹵素燈	quartz halogen lamp
石蒜	red spider lily (Lycoris radiata)
石蕊	reindeer moss; litmus (chemistry)
石蕊試紙	(chemistry) litmus paper
石虎	Shi Hu (295-349), emperor of Later Zhao 後趙|后赵[Hou4 Zhao4]
石蜐	goose barnacle (Pollicipes pollicipes)
石蠟	paraffin wax
石質	stony
石鐘乳	stalactite
石門縣	Shimen, a county in Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
石阡縣	Shiqian, a county in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
石階	stone step
石雀	(bird species of China) rock sparrow (Petronia petronia)
石雕	stone carving; carved sculpture
石雞	(bird species of China) chukar partridge (Alectoris chukar)
石青	azurite; copper azurite 2CuCO3-Cu(OH)2; azure blue
石頭	stone
石頭、剪子、布	rock-paper-scissors (hand game)
石頭奶	engorged breasts; rock-hard breasts (resulting from postnatal milk accumulation or complications from breast implants)
石頭火鍋	claypot (used in cooking)
石頭記	The Story of the Stone, another name for A Dream of Red Mansions 紅樓夢|红楼梦[Hong2 lou2 Meng4]
石首市	Shishou, a county-level city in Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
石鬆	Lycopodiopsida (club mosses)
石鯪魚	pangolin (Manis pentadactylata); scaly ant-eater
石鹽	rock salt
石鼓區	Shigu, a district of Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
石鼓文	early form of Chinese characters inscribed in stone, a precursor of the small seal 小篆[xiao3 zhuan4]
石龍區	Shilong, a district of Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
石龍子	skink; lizard
矷	(a kind of stone)
矸	used in 矸石[gan1 shi2]
矸石	(mining) gangue
矻	used in 矻矻[ku1 ku1]; Taiwan pr. [ku4]
矻矻	assiduously
矼	stone bridge
矽	(Tw) silicon (chemistry); Taiwan pr. [xi4]
矽利康	(Tw) silicone (loanword)
矽晶片	silicon chip; also written 硅晶片[gui1 jing1 pian4]
矽橡膠	(Tw) silicone rubber
矽片	(Tw) silicon wafer
矽肺病	silicosis
矽膠	(Tw, HK) silica gel; (Tw, HK) silicone rubber
矽藻	diatom
矽谷	Silicon Valley
矽鋁層	Sial
矽鎂層	sima (geology); silicon and magnesium layer in earth's crust
砂	sand; gravel; granule
砂仁	Amomom (fructus Amomi), plant used in Chinese medicine
砂囊	gizzard (anatomy of birds, gastropods etc)
砂子	sand
砂岩	sandstone
砂梨	Asian pear; sand pear (Pyrus pyrifolia)
砂漿	mortar (building)
砂石	sandstone; sand and stone; aggregate
砂礓	concretion (geology)
砂礫	grit
砂積礦床	placer (alluvial deposit containing valuable metals)
砂糖	granulated sugar
砂糖橘	sugar mandarin (Citrus reticulata cv. "Shatangju"), a cultivar of mandarin that originated in Guangdong, known for its sweet flavor and easy-to-peel skin
砂紙	sandpaper (i.e. abrasive)
砂輪	grinding wheel; emery wheel
砂鍋	casserole; earthenware pot
砃	white stone
砄	stone; rock
砅	cross stream by stepping on stones
砆	agate; inferior gem; a kind of jade
砈	astatine (chemistry) (Tw)
砉	sound of a thing flying fast by; whoosh; cracking sound
砌	to build by laying bricks or stones
砌合	bond (in building)
砌合法	bond (in building)
砌塊	building block
砌層	course (i.e. building layer)
砌磚	to lay bricks; bricklaying
砌磚工	bricklaying
砌詞捏控	to make an accusation based on fabricated evidence (idiom)
砌路	paving
砌長城	(coll.) to play mahjong
砌體	brickwork
砍	to chop; to cut down; to throw sth at sb
砍伐	to hew; to cut down
砍傷	to wound with a blade or hatchet; to slash; to gash
砍價	to bargain; to cut or beat down a price
砍刀	machete
砍斷	to chop off
砍樹	to chop wood; to chop down trees
砍死	to hack to death; to kill with an ax
砍殺	to attack with a bladed weapon
砍頭	to decapitate; to behead
砍頭不過風吹帽	to regard decapitation as no more important than the wind blowing off your hat (idiom)
砑	to calender
砒	arsenic
砒霜	white arsenic; arsenic trioxide As2O3
研	to grind; study; research
研修	to do research work; to engage in advanced studies
研修員	research worker; researcher
研判	to study and come to a conclusion; to judge; to determine
研定	to consider and decide; to decide after investigating
研所	abbr. for 研究所[yan2 jiu1 suo3]
研擬	to investigate and plan forward
研析	to analyze; research
研求	to study; to probe; to research and examine
研發	research and development; to develop
研磨	milling; to grind; to polish by grinding
研磨料	abrasive (material)
研磨材料	abrasive; grinding material
研磨盤	abrasive disk; sanding disk
研究	research; a study; to research
研究中心	research center
研究人員	research worker; research personnel
研究員	researcher
研究報告	research report
研究小組	research group
研究所	research institute; graduate studies; graduate school
研究機構	research organization
研究生	graduate student; postgraduate student; research student
研究生院	graduate school
研究者	investigator; researcher
研究院	research institute; academy
研究領域	research area; field of research
研缽	mortar (bowl for grinding with pestle)
研習	research and study
研考	to investigate; to inspect and study
研華	Advantech, technology company
研製	to research and manufacture; to research and to develop
研討	discussion
研討會	discussion forum; seminar
研議	to deliberate over (a proposal, policy etc)
研讀	to study attentively (a book); to delve into
砘	(agriculture) to compact loose soil with a stone roller after sowing seeds
砘子	stone roller used to compact loose soil after sowing seeds
砝	used in 砝碼|砝码[fa3 ma3]
砝碼	calibrated weight (used with a balance)
砟	fragments
砠	rocky hill
砢	used in 砢磣|砢碜[ke1 chen5]
砣	steelyard weight; stone roller; to polish jade with an emery wheel
砣子	emery wheel
砥	baffle (pier); whetstone
砥礪	whetstone; (lit. and fig.) to hone; to sharpen; to encourage
砧	anvil
砧木	rootstock (stem onto which a branch is grafted)
砧板	cutting board; chopping block
砧骨	incus or anvil bone of middle ear, passing sound vibration from malleus hammer bone to stapes stirrup bone
砩	dam up water with rocks
砫	ancestral tablet
砬	a huge boulder; a towering rock
砭	ancient stone acupuncture needle; to criticize; to pierce
砭灸術	acupuncture and moxibustion (Chinese medicine)
砭石	stone needle used in acupuncture
砭針	remonstrance; admonition
砭骨	to be extremely cold or painful
砮	flint; (metonym) arrowhead
砯	(old) (onom.) sound of water against rocks
砰	(onom.) bang; thump
砰砰	(onom.) slam
砲手	gunner; artillery crew
砲擊	to shell; to bombard; bombardment
砲火連天	cannon firing for days on end (idiom); enveloped in the flames of war
砲臺	fort; battery
砲艇	gunboat
砲艦	gunboat; gunship
砲響	sound of gunfire; fig. news of momentous events
砳	rocky
破	broken; damaged; worn out
破事	trivial matter; trifle; annoying thing
破亡	to die out; conquered
破例	to make an exception
破傷風	tetanus (lockjaw)
破冰	(fig.) to break the ice; to begin to restore amicable relations
破冰型艏	icebreaker bow
破冰船	icebreaker
破冰艦	icebreaker
破口	tear or rupture; to have a tear (e.g. in one's clothes)
破口大罵	(idiom) to let out a torrent of abuse
破四舊	Destroy the Four Olds (campaign of the Cultural Revolution)
破土	to break ground; to start digging; to plough
破土典禮	ground breaking ceremony
破壁	dilapidated wall; to break through a wall; (fig.) to break through
破壁機	high-speed blender
破壞	destruction; damage; to wreck
破壞性	destructive
破壞活動	sabotage; subversive activities
破壞無遺	damaged beyond repair
破天荒	unprecedented; for the first time; never before
破家	to destroy one's family
破局	to collapse (of plan, talks etc)
破布	rag
破戒	to violate a religious precept; to smoke or drink after giving up
破折號	dash; Chinese dash ── (punct., double the length of the western dash)
破損	to become damaged
破敗	to defeat; to crush (in battle); beaten
破敗不堪	crushed; utterly defeated
破敝	shabby; damaged
破曉	daybreak; dawn
破格	to break the rule; to make an exception
破案	to solve a criminal case
破梗	(Tw) to reveal a spoiler
破殼	(of a bird, insect etc) to hatch; (slang) (fig.) to be born
破殼日	(slang) (fig.) birthday
破殼齒	egg tooth
破洞	a hole
破浪	to set sail; to brave the waves
破涕為笑	to turn tears into laughter (idiom); to turn grief into happiness
破滅	to be shattered; to be annihilated (of hope, illusions etc)
破爛	worn-out; dilapidated; tattered; ragged; (coll.) rubbish; junk
破片	fragment; shard
破片殺傷	(military) fragmentation (grenade, bomb etc)
破獲	to uncover (a criminal plot); to break open and capture
破瓜	(of a girl) to lose one's virginity; to deflower a virgin
破瓦寒窯	lit. broken tiles, cold hearth; fig. a broken-down house
破產	to go bankrupt; to become impoverished; bankruptcy
破產者	bankrupt person
破甲彈	armor piercing shell
破發	(of a stock) to fall below the issue price
破的	to hit the target; (fig.) to hit the nail on the head
破相	(of facial features) to be marred by a scar etc; to disfigure
破碎	to smash to pieces; to shatter
破碗破摔	lit. to smash a cracked pot; fig. to treat oneself as hopeless and act crazily
破竹之勢	lit. a force to smash bamboo (idiom); fig. irresistible force
破竹建瓴	lit. smash bamboo, overturn water tank (idiom); fig. irresistible force
破紀錄	to break a record; record-breaking
破約	to break a promise
破綻	split seam; (fig.) flaw; weak point
破綻百出	(of an argument, theory etc) full of flaws (idiom)
破繭成蝶	lit. to break through a cocoon and turn into a butterfly (idiom)
破缺	breaking
破罐破摔	(lit.) to smash a pot just because it has a crack (idiom)
破膽	to be scared stiff
破舊	shabby
破舊立新	to get rid of the old to bring in the new (idiom); to innovate
破處	to break the hymen; to lose virginity
破蛹	to emerge from a pupa (of a butterfly etc)
破裂	to burst; to rupture; (of a relationship etc) to break down
破裂音	(linguistics) (old) plosive; stop
破解	to break (a bond, constraint etc); to explain; to unravel
破解版	cracked version (of software)
破譯	to decipher; to decode
破讀	pronunciation of a character other than the standard
破財	bankrupt; to suffer financial loss
破財免災	a financial loss may prevent disaster (idiom)
破費	to spend (money or time)
破身	to lose one's virginity
破釜沉舟	lit. to break the cauldrons and sink the boats (idiom); fig. to cut off one's means of retreat
破鈔	to spend money
破鏡	broken mirror; fig. broken marriage; divorce
破鏡重圓	(lit.) the two halves of the broken mirror are rejoined (idiom)
破門	to burst or force open a door
破門而入	to break the door down and enter (idiom)
破開	to split; to cut open
破關	to solve or overcome (a difficult problem); to beat (a video game)
破防	(video games) to break through an opponent's defenses
破除	to eliminate; to do away with; to get rid of
破除迷信	to eliminate superstition (idiom)
破鞋	broken shoes; worn-out footwear; loose woman
破音字	character with two or more readings
破題	(literary) to introduce the theme of a composition; to state the gist at the outset
破題兒	erhua form of 破題|破题[po4 ti2] (chiefly used in the colloquial "first-time-ever" sense)
破題兒第一遭	(coll.) one's first time ever experiencing sth (esp. sth notable or unusual)
破顏	to break into a smile; (of flowers) to open
破體字	nonstandard or corrupted form of a Chinese character
砵	alms bowl
砷	arsenic (chemistry)
砷中毒	arsenic poisoning
砷凡納明	arsphenamine
砷化氫	arsine
砷化鎵	gallium arsenide (GaAs)
砸	to smash; to pound; to fail
砸場子	to create a disruption at an event or venue
砸壞	to smash; to shatter
砸夯	to pound the earth to make a building foundation
砸死	to crush to death
砸毀	to destroy; to smash
砸爛	to smash
砸破	to break; to shatter
砸碎	to pulverize; to smash to bits
砸醒	to jolt sb awake
砸錢	to spend big (on sth); to pour a lot of money into sth
砸鍋	to fail
砸鍋賣鐵	to be willing to sacrifice everything one has (idiom)
砹	astatine (chemistry)
砼	concrete (building material)
硃	(bound form) cinnabar
硃砂	cinnabar; mercuric sulfide HgS
硅	silicon (chemistry)
硅化木	petrified wood (geology)
硅基	silicon-based
硅晶片	silicon chip
硅棒	silicon rod
硅橡膠	silicone rubber
硅沙	silicon sand
硅灰石	wollastonite CaSiO3
硅片	silicon wafer
硅石	siliceous rock
硅脂	silicone grease
硅膠	silica gel; silicone rubber
硅藻	diatom (single-celled phytoplankton)
硅藻門	Bacillariophyta, phylum of diatom single-celled phytoplankton
硅谷	Silicon Valley
硅質	siliceous; containing silica
硅質岩	siliceous rock (mostly composed of silica)
硅酮	silicone
硅酸	silicic acid; silicate
硅酸氟鋁	aluminum fluorosilicate
硅酸鹽	silicate
硅酸鹽水泥	Portland cement
硅鋁質	sial rock (containing silicon and aluminium, so comparatively light, making continental plates)
硇	used in 硇砂[nao2 sha1]
硇砂	(mineralogy) salammoniac
硌	(coll.) (of sth hard or rough) to press against some part of one's body causing discomfort (like a small stone in one's shoe)
硍	rumbling of rolling stones
硎	whetstone
硐	cave; pit
硐室	chamber (mining)
硒	selenium (chemistry)
硒鼓	toner cartridge
硜	obstinate
硝	saltpeter; to tan (leather)
硝化棉	nitrocellulose; guncotton
硝化甘油	nitroglycerine
硝基苯	nitrobenzene; benzoil nitrate (chemistry)
硝煙	smoke (from guns)
硝煙滾滾	(idiom) smoke billows from the raging battle
硝石	niter; saltpeter; potassium nitrate KNO3
硝酸	nitric acid
硝酸甘油	nitroglycerine
硝酸鈉	sodium nitrate
硝酸鈣	calcium nitrate
硝酸鉀	potassium nitrate
硝酸銀	silver nitrate
硝酸銨	ammonium nitrate
硝酸鹽	nitrate
硤	place name
硨	used in 硨磲|砗磲[che1 qu2]
硨磲	giant clam (subfamily Tridacninae)
硫	sulfur (chemistry)
硫代硫酸鈉	sodium hyposulfide; sodium thiosulfate
硫化	vulcanization (curing rubber using sulfur and heat)
硫化氫	hydrogen sulfide H2S; sulfureted hydrogen
硫棒	sulfur stick; roll sulfur
硫氰酸	thiocyanic acid
硫氰酸酶	rhodanase
硫氰酸鹽	thiocyanate
硫球	Luzon, island of the Philippines; the Ryukyu islands
硫胺素	thiamine; vitamin B1
硫茚	benzothiophene (chemistry)
硫酸	sulfuric acid
硫酸亞鐵	iron(II) sulfate; ferrous sulfate
硫酸鈉	sodium sulfate
硫酸鈣	calcium sulfate
硫酸鉀	potassium sulfate
硫酸銅	copper sulfate CuSO4
硫酸銨	ammonium sulfate
硫酸鋁	aluminum sulfate
硫酸鋇	barium sulfate
硫酸鎂	magnesium sulfate
硫酸鐵	ferrous sulfate
硫酸鹽	sulfate
硫醇	thiol (chemistry)
硫黃	sulfur
硫黃鵐	(bird species of China) yellow bunting (Emberiza sulphurata)
硬	hard; stiff; solid; (fig.) strong; firm; resolutely; uncompromisingly
硬仗	tough battle; difficult task; big challenge
硬件	hardware
硬件平臺	hardware platform
硬來	to use force
硬傷	injury; trauma; (fig.) glaring error
硬剛	(slang) to confront sb boldly and resolutely
硬化	to harden; (medicine) sclerosis
硬實	sturdy; robust
硬實力	hard power (i.e. military and economic power)
硬席	hard seat (on trains)
硬幣	coin
硬幣坯餅	coin blank
硬幹	to proceed tenaciously in spite of obstacles
硬底子	(esp. of an actor) strong; capable
硬度	hardness
硬座	hard seat (on trains or boats)
硬式磁碟機	hard disk; hard drive
硬性	rigid; inflexible; hard (drug)
硬扎	strong; sturdy; awesome
硬拉	deadlift
硬拗	(Tw) (coll.) to defend an untenable position with ridiculous arguments (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [ngē-áu])
硬挺	to endure with all one's will; to hold out; rigid
硬推	to shove
硬撐	to make oneself do sth in spite of adversity, pain etc
硬是	just; simply; stubbornly
硬朗	robust; healthy
硬木	hardwood
硬核	hardcore; hard core
硬正	staunchly honest
硬殼	crust; hard shell
硬殼果	nut
硬氣	firm; unyielding; strong-willed
硬水	hard water (cf. 軟水|软水[ruan3 shui3], soft water)
硬派	hard-line; hardcore
硬漢	man of steel; unyielding, tough guy
硬灌	to force feed
硬玉	jadeite
硬生生	stiff; rigid; inflexible
硬皮	crust (of a solidified liquid etc)
硬盤	hard disk
硬目標	hard target
硬石膏	anhydrite CaSO4
硬碟	(Tw) hard disk; hard drive
硬碰硬	to meet force with force; painstaking
硬磁盤	hard drive; hard disk
硬筆	generic term for hard writing instruments such as quill pens, fountain pens, ball pens and pencils, as opposed to writing brushes
硬糖	hard candy
硬紙	cardboard; stiff paper
硬編碼	(computing) to hard code; hard-coded
硬脂酸	stearic acid; stearate
硬脂酸鈣	calcium stearate
硬臥	hard sleeper (a type of sleeper train ticket class with a harder bunk)
硬菜	(dialect) meaty dish
硬著陸	(aviation) hard landing; (economics) hard landing
硬著頭皮	to brace oneself to do sth; to put a bold face on it
硬蕊	hardcore (Tw)
硬要	firmly set on doing sth; to insist on doing
硬通貨	(finance) hard currency; strong currency
硬逼	to pressure; to press; to force
硬邦邦	very hard
硬陸	to have a hard landing (economy)
硬頂跑車	sports coupé (car)
硬領	collar
硬骨頭	resolute individual; a hard nut to crack; tough mission
硬骨魚	bony fishes; Osteichthyes (taxonomic class including most fish)
硬體	(Tw) (computer) hardware
硭	crude saltpeter
硯	ink-stone
硯兄	senior fellow student
硯友	classmate; fellow student
硯室	case for an ink slab
硯山縣	Yanshan, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
硯席	ink slab and sitting mat; place where one studies and teaches
硯弟	younger fellow student
硯水壺兒	water container for an ink slab
硯池	(concave) ink stone or ink slab
硯滴	small cup for adding water to an ink stone
硯瓦	ink slab
硯田	ink stone; writing as a livelihood
硯盒	case for an ink stone or ink slab
硯石	ink stone; ink slab
硯耕	to live by writing
硯臺	ink stone; ink slab
硻	obstinate
硼	boron (chemistry)
硼砂	borax
硼酸	boric acid H3BO3
硾	iodide; to weight
碃	(stone)
碇	anchor
碇泊	to moor; to drop anchor
碈	used in place names
碉	rock cave (archaic)
碉堡	(military) pillbox; blockhouse; humorous way of writing 屌爆[diao3 bao4]
碌	used in 勞碌|劳碌[lao2 lu4], 忙碌[mang2 lu4] and 碌碌[lu4 lu4]
碌曲縣	Luqu, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
碌碌	ordinary; commonplace; busy; bustling about
碌碌無為	unaccomplished; mediocre; feckless
碌碡	stone roller (for threshing grain, leveling ground etc)
碎	(transitive or intransitive) to break into pieces; to shatter; to crumble
碎催	lackey
碎塊	fragment
碎屍	dismembered body
碎屍萬段	(idiom) to cut up sb's body into thousands of pieces (a hyperbolic threat)
碎屑	fragments; particles
碎屑岩	clastic rock (geology)
碎屑沉積物	clastic sediment
碎布條	shred
碎形	fractal (math.)
碎心裂膽	in mortal fear (idiom)
碎掉	to drop and smash; broken
碎末	flecks; particles; bits
碎步	small quick steps
碎片	chip; fragment; splinter; tatter
碎片整理	defragmentation (computing)
碎石	gravel; crushed rock; rock debris
碎碎念	to sound like a broken record; to prattle; to nag
碎紙機	paper shredder
碎肉	ground meat; mincemeat
碎裂	to disintegrate; to shatter into small pieces
碎鑽	small diamonds
碎音鈸	crash cymbal (drum kit component)
碏	(gems)
碑	a monument; an upright stone tablet; stele
碑亭	pavilion housing a stele
碑刻	inscription on stone tablet
碑帖	a rubbing from a stone inscription
碑座	pedestal for stone tablet
碑文	inscription on a tablet
碑林	Forest of Steles (museum in Xi'an)
碑林區	Beilin, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
碑石	stele; vertical stone tablet for carved inscriptions
碑碣	stone tablet (with inscription)
碑記	a record of events inscribed on a tablet
碑誌	historical record inscribed on tablet
碑銘	inscription on stone tablet
碑額	the top part of a tablet
碓	pestle; pound with a pestle
碔	inferior gem; a kind of jade
碗	bowl; cup
碗公	(Tw) very large bowl
碗櫃	cupboard
碗筷	bowl and chopsticks; tableware
碗粿	(Tw) wagui, a sticky rice pudding, usu. savory (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [uánn-kué])
碘	iodine (chemistry)
碘伏	iodophor; (esp.) povidone-iodine
碘化鈉	sodium iodide NaI
碘化鉀	potassium iodide
碘化銀	silver iodide
碘酸	iodic acid
碚	(used in place names)
碝	jade-like stone
碞	cliff
碟	dish; plate
碟仙	form of divination similar to the Ouija board, in which participants use their forefingers to push a small saucer over a sheet of paper inscribed with numerous Chinese characters
碟子	saucer; small dish
碟片	disc
碡	stone roller (for threshing grain, leveling ground etc)
碣	stone tablet
碥	dangerous rocks jutting out over rapids
碧	green jade; bluish green; blue
碧昂絲	Beyoncé (1981-), American pop singer
碧根果	(loanword) pecan
碧歐泉	Biotherm (brand name)
碧江區	Bijiang, a district of Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
碧池	bitch (loanword) (Internet slang); clear water pond
碧海青天	green sea, blue sky (idiom); sea and sky merge in one shade
碧潭	Bitan or Green Pool on Xindian Creek 新店溪[Xin1 dian4 xi1], Taipei county, Taiwan
碧玉	jasper
碧璽	tourmaline
碧瓦	green; glazed tile
碧眼	blue eyes
碧空	a clear blue sky
碧綠	dark green
碧草如茵	green grass like cushion (idiom); green meadow so inviting to sleep on
碧藍	dark blue
碧螺春	biluochun or pi lo chun, a type of green tea grown in the Dongting Mountain region near Lake Tai 太湖[Tai4 Hu2], Jiangsu
碧血	blood shed in a just cause
碩	(bound form) large; big
碩士	master's degree; person who has a master's degree; learned person
碩士學位	master's degree
碩士生	Master's degree student
碩大	big; huge; massive
碩大無朋	(idiom) very big; huge
碩大無比	(idiom) very big; huge
碩果	major achievement; great work; triumphant success
碩果僅存	only remaining of the great (idiom); one of the few greats extant
碩果累累	heavily laden with fruit; fertile (of trees)
碩麗	large and beautiful
碫	coarse stone (used for whetstone)
碬	whetstone
碭	stone with color veins
碭山縣	Dangshan, a county in Suzhou City 宿州市[Su4 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
碯	agate
碰	to touch; to meet with; to bump
碰一鼻子灰	lit. to have one's nose rubbed in the dirt
碰上	to run into; to come upon; to meet
碰倒	to knock sth over
碰到	to come across; to run into; to meet
碰壁	to hit a wall
碰巧	by chance; by coincidence; to happen to
碰損	bruising (damage to soft fruit etc)
碰撞	to collide; collision
碰撞造山	collisional orogeny
碰擊	to knock against; to knock together; to rattle
碰瓷	(coll.) to scam sb by setting up an "accident" in which one appears to have sustained damage or injury caused by the scam victim, then demanding compensation (variations include putting "expensive" porcelain in a place where it is likely to be knocked over by passers-by, and stepping into the path of a slow-moving car)
碰瓷兒	erhua form of 碰瓷[peng4 ci2]
碰碰車	bumper car
碰見	to run into; to meet (unexpectedly); to bump into
碰觸	to touch
碰運氣	to try one's luck; to leave sth to chance
碰釘子	to meet with a rebuff
碰面	to meet; to run into (sb); to get together (with sb)
碰頭	to meet; to hold a meeting
碲	tellurium (chemistry)
碳	carbon (chemistry)
碳中和	carbon neutrality; carbon-neutral
碳化	to carbonize; dry distillation; carbonization
碳化氫	hydrocarbon; same as 烴|烃[ting1]
碳化物	carbide
碳化硅	silicon carbide; carborundum
碳化鈣	calcium carbide CaC2
碳匯	carbon credits; carbon sink
碳原子	carbon atom
碳基	carbon-based
碳性電池	carbon-zinc battery
碳排放	carbon emissions; carbon dioxide emissions
碳氫化合物	hydrocarbon
碳水	(coll.) carbohydrate; carbs (abbr. for 碳水化合物[tan4 shui3 hua4 he2 wu4])
碳水化合物	carbohydrate
碳減排	to reduce carbon emissions
碳粉	toner (for a laser printer)
碳纖維	carbon fiber
碳足印	carbon footprint
碳足跡	carbon footprint
碳酰氯	carbonyl chloride COCl2; phosgene, a poisonous gas
碳酸	carbonic acid
碳酸岩	carbonate rock (geology)
碳酸氫鈉	sodium bicarbonate
碳酸氫銨	ammonium bicarbonate
碳酸鈉	soda; sodium carbonate (chemistry)
碳酸鈣	calcium carbonate
碳酸鉀	potassium carbonate
碳酸鹽	carbonate salt (chemistry)
碳銨	ammonium bicarbonate (abbr. for 碳酸氫銨|碳酸氢铵[tan4 suan1 qing1 an3])
碳鏈	carbon chain
碳鏈纖維	carbon chain fiber
碳隔離	carbon sequestration
碳黑	soot; carbon black
碴	fault; glass fragment; quarrel
碸	sulfone
確	authenticated; solid; firm
確乎	really; indeed
確保	to ensure; to guarantee
確信	to be convinced; to be sure; to firmly believe
確切	definite; exact; precise
確定	definite; certain; fixed
確定性	determinacy
確實	indeed; really; reliable
確山縣	Queshan, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
確是	certainly
確有其事	(confirm to be) true; authentic
確立	to establish; to institute
確診	to make a definite diagnosis; confirmed (case of a specific disease)
確認	to confirm; to verify; confirmation
確證	to prove; to confirm; to corroborate; convincing proof
確鑿	definite; conclusive; undeniable
確鑿不移	established and irrefutable (idiom)
碻	solid; firm
碼	(archaic) agate
碼分多址	Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) (telecommunications)
碼子	(coll.) numeral; counter; chip; token; (old) ready money; cash
碼字	to type (with a keyboard); (coding theory) codeword
碼放	to pile up; to stack up
碼洋	(publishing industry) total cover price of all books in an edition
碼率	bitrate
碼線	yard line (sports)
碼表	speedometer; stopwatch; cyclocomputer
碼農	menial programmer (computing)
碼長城	(coll.) to play mahjong
碼頭	wharf; dock; quay; pier
碾	stone roller; roller and millstone; to grind
碾坊	grain mill
碾場	to thresh or husk grain on a threshing ground (dialect)
碾壓	to crush or compact (with a roller); to run over (with a vehicle)
碾子	roller (used for milling or crushing)
碾子山區	Nianzishan, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
碾槌	pestle
碾盤	millstone
碾砣	roller
碾碎	to pulverize; to crush
碾磨	to mill; to grind; grinding stone
碾米機	rice milling machine
碾過	to crush sth by running over it
磁	magnetic; magnetism; porcelain
磁共振	magnetic resonance
磁共振成像	magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
磁力	magnetic force; magnetic
磁力線	line of magnetic flux
磁力鎖	magnetic lock
磁力鏈接	(computing) magnet link
磁動勢	magnetomotive force
磁化	to magnetize
磁卡	magnetic card; IC Card (telephone)
磁吸	(of a magnet) to attract metallic objects
磁吸效應	"magnetic" force that attracts investment and talented individuals
磁單極子	magnetic monopole
磁場	magnetic field
磁層	magnetosphere; magnetic layer
磁帶	magnetic tape
磁帶機	tape drive
磁性	magnetic; magnetism
磁感應	magnetic induction
磁感應強度	magnetic field density
磁感線	line of magnetic flux
磁懸浮	magnetic levitation (train); maglev
磁控管	cavity magnetron (used to produce microwaves)
磁暴	magnetic storm
磁條	magnetic stripe
磁極	magnetic pole
磁氣圈	magnetosphere
磁浮	maglev (type of train); magnetic levitation
磁片	magnetic disk
磁異常	magnetic anomaly (geology)
磁盤	(computer) disk
磁盤驅動器	disk drive
磁矩	magnetic moment
磁石	magnet
磁碟	(magnetic) computer disk (hard disk or floppy)
磁碟機	disk drive (computing); drive (computing)
磁縣	Ci County or Cixian, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
磁貼	magnetic sticker
磁軌砲	railgun
磁通量	magnetic flux
磁通門	fluxgate (electrical engineering)
磁重聯	(physics) magnetic reconnection
磁釘	button magnet (to use on whiteboards, refrigerator doors etc)
磁鏈	(computing) magnet link; (electromagnetism) magnetic flux linkage
磁鐵	magnet
磁鐵礦	magnetite Fe3O4
磁阻	magnetic reluctance
磁頭	magnetic head (of a tape recorder etc)
磁體	magnet; magnetic body
磅	used in 磅礡|磅礴[pang2 bo2]; Taiwan pr. [pang1]
磅刷	largest-size housepainter's brush
磅礡	majestic; boundless; to fill; to pervade
磅秤	scale; platform balance
磅蛋糕	pound cake
磈	rocky; stony
磉	stone plinth
磊	lumpy; rock pile; uneven
磊磊	big pile of rocks; bighearted; open and honest
磊落	big and stout; big-hearted; open and honest
磊落大方	to be generous in the extreme (idiom)
磋	(old) to polish bones, horns, ivory etc into tools
磋商	to consult; to discuss seriously; to negotiate
磋磨	to polish and rub; (fig.) to torment; to torture
磎	mountain stream; creek
磐	firm; stable; rock
磐安縣	Pan'an, a county in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
磐石	boulder
磐石市	Panshi, a county-level city in Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
磑	(literary) grindstone; (literary) to mill
磑磑	(literary) lofty; towering; (literary) glistening white
磔	old term for the right-falling stroke in Chinese characters (e.g. the last stroke of 大[da4]), now called 捺[na4]
磕	to tap; to knock (against sth hard); (esp.) to knock (mud from boots, ash from a pipe etc)
磕CP	(slang) to ship a fictional couple; to enthusiastically support a romantic pairing
磕碰	to knock against; to bump into; to have a disagreement
磕磕	(onom.) knocking
磕磕巴巴	stammering; stuttering; not speaking fluently
磕磕絆絆	bumpy (of a road); limping (of a person)
磕磣	(dialect) ugly; unsightly; shabby; (dialect) to humiliate; to ridicule
磕糖	(slang) to revel in the sight of one's favorite couple being affectionate
磕膝蓋	(dialect) knee
磕頭	to kowtow (traditional greeting, esp. to a superior, involving kneeling and pressing one's forehead to the ground)
磕頭如搗蒜	(idiom) to kowtow repeatedly and rapidly (esp. when pleading for mercy)
磙	roller; to level with a roller
磚	brick; tile (floor or wall, not roof)
磚塊	brick
磚瓦	tiles and bricks
磚石	brick
磚窯	brick kiln
磚窯場	brick kiln
磚紅土	red brick clay
磚頭	brick
磛	cliff; peak
磜	(used in place names)
磠	sal ammoniac
磡	dangerous sea-cliff
磣	gritty (of food); unsightly
磤	(onom.) sound of thunder
磥	a heap of stones; boulders
磧	(bound form) moraine; rocks in shallow water
磨	grindstone; to grind; to turn round
磨不開	to feel embarrassed
磨人	annoying; bothersome; to fret
磨光	to polish
磨刀	to hone (a knife)
磨刀不誤砍柴工	lit. sharpening the axe won't make the wood-splitting take longer (idiom)
磨刀石	whetstone (for honing knives)
磨刀霍霍	(lit.) to sharpen one's sword (idiom)
磨叨	to grumble; to chatter
磨合	to break in; to wear in
磨唧	(dialect) to be very slow; to dawdle
磨嘰	(dialect) to dawdle; to waste time; also written 墨跡|墨迹[mo4 ji5]
磨嘴	to argue pointlessly; to talk incessant nonsense; to blather
磨嘴皮子	to wear out the skin of one's teeth (idiom); pointlessly blather
磨坊	mill
磨坊主	miller
磨子	mill; grain mill; millstone
磨床	grinding machine; grinder
磨得開	to feel unembarrassed; to be at ease
磨快	to sharpen; to grind (knife blades)
磨折	to torture; to torment
磨損	to suffer wear and tear; to deteriorate through use; to wear out
磨損率	attrition rate
磨料	abrasive material
磨杵成針	to grind an iron bar down to a fine needle (idiom); fig. to persevere in a difficult task
磨機	milling machine
磨洋工	to idle on the job
磨滅	to obliterate; to erase
磨煩	to pester; to bother sb incessantly; to delay
磨牙	to grind one's teeth (during sleep); pointless arguing; (coll.) molar
磨皮	to apply a skin-smoothing effect (in photo editing)
磨盤	lower millstone; tray of a mill
磨石	whetstone; millstone
磨石砂礫	millstone grit; coarse sandstone
磨石粗砂岩	millstone grit
磨砂	to scrub with an abrasive; to sand; frosted (e.g. glass)
磨砂機	sander; sanding machine
磨砂玻璃	frosted glass
磨砂膏	facial scrub
磨破口舌	incessant complaining
磨破嘴皮	to talk until one is blue in the face
磨破嘴皮子	to wear out one's lips (idiom); to talk until one is blue in the face
磨碎	to grind up
磨磨蹭蹭	to dillydally; slow-going
磨礪	to sharpen on grindstone; to improve oneself by practice
磨穿鐵硯	to grind one's way through an ink stone
磨練	to temper oneself; to steel oneself; self-discipline
磨耗	wear and tear; wearing out by friction
磨腳石	pumice stone
磨蝕	erosion; abrasion
磨製石器	a polished stone (neolithic) implement
磨豆腐	to grumble; to chatter away incessantly
磨起泡	friction blister
磨蹭	to rub lightly; to move slowly; to dawdle; to dillydally
磨難	a torment; a trial; tribulation
磪	a high mountain; precipitous
磬	chime stones, ancient percussion instrument made of stone or jade pieces hung in a row and struck as a xylophone
磬竭	used up; exhausted; emptied
磭	big lip
磯	breakwater; jetty
磯鷸	(bird species of China) common sandpiper (Actitis hypoleucos)
磲	used in 硨磲|砗磲[che1 qu2]
磴	cliff-ledge; stone step
磴口縣	Dengkou, a county in Bayannur City 巴彥淖爾市|巴彦淖尔市[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
磷	(chemistry) phosphorus
磷光	phosphorescence
磷化鈣	calcium phosphide (Ca3P2)
磷火	phosphorescence
磷灰石	(mineralogy) apatite
磷石	muscovite, mica (used in TCM)
磷礦	phosphate ore; phosphate deposit
磷礦石	phosphate rock; phosphate ore
磷肥	phosphate fertilizer
磷脂	phospholipid
磷蝦	krill
磷酸	phosphoric acid
磷酸鈉	sodium phosphate (Na3PO4), inorganic salt used in detergents and food processing
磷酸鈣	calcium phosphate (Ca3(PO4)2), inorganic salt used in fertilizers and food additives
磷酸鹽	phosphate (salt or ester of phosphoric acid)
磷酸鹽岩	(mineralogy) phosphorite
磹	stone wedge
磺	sulfur
磺胺	sulfa drugs; sulfanilamide (used to reduce fever)
磻	name of a river in Shaanxi
磽	stony soil
礁	reef; shoal rock
礁島	reef island
礁湖	lagoon
礁湖星雲	Lagoon Nebula, M8
礁石	reef
礄	used in place names
礄口區	Qiaokou, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
礄頭	Qiaotou, Sichuan
礅	stone block
礌	used in 礌石[lei2 shi2]; Taiwan pr. [lei4]
礌石	(old) rocks that can be dropped from a height onto an attacking enemy
礎	foundation; base
礐	(arch.) large stone; boulder; hard
礓	a small stone
礗	sound of crushed stone
礙	to hinder; to obstruct; to block
礙事	to be in the way; to be a hindrance
礙口	to shy to speak out; tongue-tied; to hesitate
礙口識羞	tongue-tied for fear of embarrassment (idiom)
礙手礙腳	(idiom) to be in the way; to be a hindrance
礙於	to be constrained by; due to (a constraining factor)
礙眼	to be an irksome presence (i.e. sth or sb one wishes were not there)
礙胃口	to impair the appetite
礙難	inconvenient; difficult for some reason; to find sth embarrassing
礙難從命	difficult to obey orders (idiom); much to my embarrassment, I am unable to comply
礙面子	(not do sth) for fear of offending sb
礜	used in 礜石[yu4 shi2]
礜石	arsenopyrite (FeAsS)
礞	(mineral)
礡	used in 磅礡|磅礴[pang2 bo2]
礤	shredder; grater (kitchen implement for grating vegetables)
礤床	vegetable shredder; grater
礤床兒	shredder; grater (kitchen implement for grating vegetables)
礦	mineral deposit; ore deposit; ore; a mine
礦主	proprietor of a mine
礦井	a mine; a mine shaft
礦企	mining company (abbr. for 礦業企業|矿业企业[kuang4 ye4 qi3 ye4])
礦務局	mining affairs bureau
礦區	Kuang District or Kuangqu, a district of Yangquan City 陽泉市|阳泉市[Yang2 quan2 Shi4], Shanxi
礦坑	mine; mine shaft
礦場	a mine; pit
礦層	ore stratum; vein of ore
礦山	mine
礦工	miner
礦床	(mineral) deposit
礦業	mining industry
礦機	(cryptocurrency) mining machine
礦水	mineral water
礦油精	mineral spirits
礦泉	mineral spring
礦泉水	mineral water
礦渣	slag (mining)
礦燈	miner's lamp; mining light
礦物	mineral
礦物學	mineralogy
礦物燃料	fossil fuels; oil and coal
礦物質	mineral, esp. dietary mineral
礦產	minerals
礦產資源	mineral resources
礦石	ore
礦脂	vaseline; same as 凡士林
礦脈	vein of ore
礦藏	mineral resources
礦車	miner's cart; pit truck
礦難	mining disaster
礦體	ore body (geology)
礦鹽	halite
礧	roll stone down hill; stone pile
礪	grind; sandstone
礫	(bound form) gravel; small stone
礫岩	conglomerate (geology)
礫石	gravel; pebbles
礬	alum
礮	ancient ballista for throwing heavy stones
礱	(dialect) tool used to hull rice (similar to a grain mill)
礵	arsenic
示	to show; to reveal
示例	to illustrate; typical example
示例代碼	(computing) sample code; example code
示好	to express goodwill; to be friendly
示威	to demonstrate (as a protest); a demonstration
示威者	demonstrator; protester
示威遊行	(protest) demonstration
示威運動	rally
示寂	to pass away (of a monk or nun)
示弱	not to fight back; to take it lying down; to show weakness
示性	expressivity
示性類	characteristic class (math.)
示恩	to show kindness
示意	to hint; to indicate (an idea to sb)
示意圖	sketch; schematic diagram; graph
示愛	to express one's love (for sb)
示指	index finger
示教	to teach by demonstration
示波器	oscillograph; oscilloscope
示現	(of a deity) to take a material shape; to appear
示眾	to publicly expose
示範	to demonstrate; to show how to do sth; demonstration
示覆	please answer (epistolary style)
示警	to warn; a warning sign
礽	blessings
社	(bound form) society; organization; agency; (old) god of the land
社交	interaction; social contact
社交媒體	social media
社交恐懼症	social phobia; social anxiety
社交才能	social accomplishment
社交牛逼症	(neologism, attested by 2021) (slang) extreme gregariousness; over-the-top confidence in social interactions
社交網站	social networking site
社交舞	social dancing
社保	social insurance (abbr. for 社會保險|社会保险[she4 hui4 bao3 xian3])
社區	community; neighborhood
社區大學	community college
社員	commune member (PRC, 1958–1985)
社團	association; society; group
社媒	social media (abbr. for 社交媒體|社交媒体[she4 jiao1 mei2 ti3] or 社群媒體|社群媒体[she4 qun2 mei2 ti3])
社學	Ming or Qing dynasty school
社工	social work; social worker
社工人	social worker
社恐	social phobia (abbr. for 社交恐懼症|社交恐惧症[she4 jiao1 kong3 ju4 zheng4])
社戲	theatrical performance (e.g. on religious festival)
社招	social recruiting (abbr. for 社會招聘|社会招聘[she4 hui4 zhao1 pin4])
社教	Socialist education; abbr. for 社會主義教育運動|社会主义教育运动
社旗縣	Sheqi, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
社會	society
社會主義	socialism
社會主義教育運動	Socialist Education Movement (1963-66), formal name of the Four Cleanups Movement 四清運動|四清运动[Si4 qing1 Yun4 dong4]
社會主義者	socialist
社會事業	social enterprise
社會保障	social security
社會保險	social security
社會信用體系	social credit system, a system that incentivizes individuals and businesses by creating consequences for good and bad behavior
社會公共利益	public interest
社會化	to socialize
社會名流	celebrity; public figure
社會團體	social group; community organization
社會學	sociology
社會工作	social work
社會工作者	social worker
社會工程學	(cybersecurity) social engineering
社會性	social; societal
社會服務	social services
社會正義	social justice
社會民主	social democracy
社會民主主義	social democracy
社會民主黨	Social Democratic Party
社會活動	social activity
社會環境	social environment; milieu
社會科學	social sciences
社會等級	social rank; class; caste
社會經濟	socio-economic
社會總需求	aggregate social demand; total requirement of society
社會融資	private (non-government) financing
社會行動	social actions
社會語言學	sociolinguistics
社會達爾文主義	social Darwinism
社會關係	social relation
社會關懷	social care
社會階層	social class
社會黨	socialist party
社死	(neologism c. 2020) (slang) to die of embarrassment (figuratively)
社民黨	Social Democratic party
社火	festival entertainment (lion dance, dragon lantern etc)
社牛	(slang) extreme extrovert; socially fearless person (abbr. for 社交牛逼症[she4 jiao1 niu2 bi1 zheng4])
社畜	(coll.) corporate drone (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 社畜 "shachiku")
社科	social science (abbr.)
社科院	(Chinese) Academy of Social Sciences (CASS)
社稷	state; country; the Gods of earth and grain
社維法	(Tw) public order laws
社群	community; social grouping
社群媒體	(Tw) social media
社融	private financing (abbr. for 社會融資|社会融资[she4 hui4 rong2 zi1])
社評	editorial (in a newspaper); also written 社論|社论
社論	editorial (in a newspaper)
社運	social movement (abbr. for 社會運動|社会运动[she4 hui4 yun4 dong4])
社長	president or director (of association etc)
社鼠城狐	lit. rat in a country shrine, fox on town walls; fig. unprincipled thugs who abuse others' power to bully and exploit people
礿	spring imperial ancestral sacrifice
祀	to sacrifice; to offer libation to
祀物	sacrificial objects
祀神	to offer sacrifices to the gods
祁	large; vast
祁奚	Qi Xi (c. 620-550 BC), minister of Jin state 晉國|晋国[Jin4 guo2] of the Spring and Autumn states
祁奚之薦	Qi Xi's recommendation (idiom); recommending the best person for the job independent of factional loyalty
祁東縣	Qidong, a county in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
祁縣	Qi County or Qixian, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
祁連山	Qilian Mountains in Qinghai
祁連山脈	Qilian Mountains (formerly Richthofen Range), dividing Qinghai and Gansu provinces
祁連縣	Qilian, a county in Haibei Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海北藏族自治州[Hai3 bei3 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
祁門縣	Qimen, a county in Huangshan City 黃山市|黄山市[Huang2 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
祁陽市	Qiyang, a county-level city in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
祂	(third-person pronoun for God in the Christian Bible)
祄	to bless
祅	(literary) uncanny or anomalous phenomenon (variant of 妖[yao1])
祆	Ahura Mazda, the creator deity in Zoroastrianism
祆教	Zoroastrianism
祇	god of the earth
祈	to implore; to pray; to request
祈仙台	memorial altar; platform for praying to immortals
祈使句	imperative sentence
祈望	to hope; to wish; hope
祈求	to pray for; to appeal
祈盼	to earnestly hope for; to fervently wish for
祈福	to pray for blessings
祈福禳災	to pray for luck and sacrifice to avoid disasters (i.e. traditional superstitions)
祈禱	to pray; to say a prayer
祈願	to pray; to pray for sth; to wish sth
祉	felicity
祉祿	happiness and wealth
祊	side altar inside ancestral temple
祏	stone shrine
祐	(of divinity) to bless; to protect
祓	to cleanse; to remove evil
祓濯	to cleanse; to purify
祓禊	exorcistic ablutions
祓除	to exorcize (evil spirits); to purify through ritual
祓飾	to refresh; to renew
祔	worship ancestors
祕傳	to hand down secret knowledge from generation to generation within a school or family etc
祕方	secret recipe
祕本	a treasured rare book
祕結	constipation
祕而不宣	to withhold information; to keep sth secret
祕藏	to stash away; a hoard; a cache
祖	ancestor; forefather; grandparents
祖上	ancestors; forebears
祖傳	passed on from ancestors; handed down from generation to generation
祖先	ancestors; forebears
祖國	motherland
祖國和平統一委員會	Committee for Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland (North Korean)
祖塋	ancestral tomb
祖墳	ancestral tomb
祖姑母	father's father's sister; great aunt
祖宅	ancestral house
祖宗	ancestor; forebear
祖居	former residence; one's original home
祖屋	ancestral house
祖師	founder (of a craft, religious sect etc)
祖師爺	founder (of a craft, religious sect etc)
祖母	father's mother; paternal grandmother
祖母綠	emerald
祖沖之	Zu Chongzhi (429-500), astronomer and mathematician
祖父	father's father; paternal grandfather
祖父母	paternal grandparents
祖父輩	people of one's grandparents' generation
祖祖輩輩	for generations; from generation to generation
祖祠	shrine dedicated to one's ancestors
祖籍	ancestral hometown; original domicile (and civil registration)
祖系	ancestry; lineage; pedigree
祖訓	ancestral precepts
祖語	proto-language; parent language (linguistics)
祖輩	ancestors; forefathers; ancestry
祖馬	Zuma (name)
祖魯	Zulu
祖魯人	Zulu people
祖鳥	dinosaur ancestor of birds
祖鳥類	dinosaur ancestors of birds
祗	respectful (ly)
祚	blessing; the throne
祛	sacrifice to drive away calamity; to dispel; to drive away
祛寒	to dispel cold (TCM)
祛暑	to beat the summer heat
祛疑	to dispel doubts
祛痰	to dispel phlegm (TCM)
祛痰藥	medicine to dispel phlegm (TCM)
祛瘀	to dispel blood stasis (TCM)
祛邪	to exorcise; to drive away evil spirits
祛除	to dispel; to clear
祛風	to relieve (cold, rheumatic pain etc)
祛魅	to become disenchanted
祜	celestial blessing
祝	to pray for; to wish (sb bon voyage, happy birthday etc)
祝允明	Zhu Yunming (1460-1526), Ming dynasty calligrapher
祝壽	to offer birthday congratulations (to an elderly person)
祝好	wish you all the best! (when signing off on a correspondence)
祝枝山	Zhu Zhishan (1460-1526), Ming calligrapher and poet, one of Four great southern talents of the Ming 江南四大才子
祝福	blessings; to wish sb well
祝禱	to pray
祝融	Zhurong, god of fire in Chinese mythology (sometimes used allusively, as in 毀於祝融|毁于祝融[hui3 yu2 Zhu4 rong2] "destroyed by fire")
祝融號	the "Zhurong" Chinese Mars rover, landed on the planet in 2021
祝謝	to give thanks
祝賀	to congratulate; congratulations
祝賀詞	congratulatory speech
祝酒	to drink a toast
祝酒詞	short speech given in proposing a toast
祝酒辭	short speech given in proposing a toast
祝頌	to express good wishes
祝願	to wish
祝髮	to cut one's hair (as part of a minority ritual or in order to become a monk)
神	god; deity; supernatural; magical; mysterious; spirit; mind; energy
神不守舍	(idiom) absentminded; dazed; distracted
神不知鬼不覺	top secret; hush-hush
神乎其技	(idiom) brilliant; extremely skillful; virtuosic
神交	soul brothers; friends in spirit who have never met; to commune with
神人	God; deity
神仙	Daoist immortal; supernatural entity
神似	similar in expression and spirit; to bear a remarkable resemblance to
神位	spirit tablet; ancestral tablet
神佛	Gods and Buddhas
神作	(slang) masterpiece
神偷	master thief
神傷	depressed; dispirited; dejected
神像	likeness of a god or Buddha; (old) portrait of the deceased
神入	(psychology) empathy; to empathize with
神出鬼沒	(lit.) to appear and disappear unpredictably like a spirit or a ghost (idiom)
神力	occult force; the power of a God or spirit
神功	amazing powers; miraculous skill
神勇	extraordinarily brave; heroic
神勞形瘁	to be completely drained both emotionally and physically (idiom)
神化	to make divine; apotheosis
神器	magical object; object symbolic of imperial power; fine weapon
神奇	magical; mystical; miraculous
神奇寶貝	Pokémon or Pocket Monsters, popular Japanese video game, anime and manga
神奈川	Kanagawa (prefecture in Japan)
神奧	mysterious; an enigma
神女	The Goddess, 1934 silent film about a Shanghai prostitute, directed by 吳永剛|吴永刚[Wu2 Yong3 gang1]
神女峰	name of a peak by the Three Gorges 長江三峽|长江三峡[Chang2 Jiang1 San1 xia2]
神女有心，襄王無夢	lit. the fairy is willing, but King Xiang doesn't dream (idiom)
神妙	marvelous; wondrous
神學	theological; theology
神學士	student of theology; Bachelor of Divinity; Taleban (Farsi: student)
神學家	theologian
神學研究所	seminary
神學院	seminary
神宮	(Shinto) shrine of especially high status (esp. an imperial shrine, e.g. Ise Grand Shrine)
神專	(Internet slang) masterpiece music album; classic album (abbr. for 神級專輯|神级专辑[shen2 ji2 zhuan1 ji2])
神山	sacred mountain
神州	old name for China
神廚	master chef
神廟	temple
神往	to be fascinated; to be rapt; to long for
神志	consciousness; state of mind; compos mentis
神志不清	to be delirious; to be mentally confused
神志昏迷	to be in a state of delirium
神思	state of mind
神思恍惚	abstracted; absent-minded; in a trance
神性	divinity
神怪	spirits and devils (usually harmful); demon
神情	look; expression
神態	appearance; manner; bearing
神慰	spiritual consolation
神憎鬼厭	(idiom) despicable; loathsome
神戶	Kobe, city in Japan
神探	master sleuth; lit. miraculous detective
神明	deities; gods
神智	mind; wisdom; consciousness
神曲	medicated leaven (used in TCM to treat indigestion)
神木市	Shenmu, a county-level city in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
神枯	spiritual desolation
神格	Godhead
神棍	charlatan claiming supernatural powers; (fig.) charlatan; phony guru
神槍手	sharpshooter
神機妙算	divine strategy and wonderful planning (idiom); clever scheme
神權	divine right (of kings)
神權政治	theocracy
神權統治	theocracy
神殿	shrine
神氣	expression; manner; vigorous
神氣活現	arrogant appearance; smug appearance; to act condescending
神池縣	Shenchi, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
神治	theocratic; theocracy
神清氣爽	(idiom) full of vitality; relaxed and alert
神游	to go on a mental journey
神漢	sorcerer
神父	Catholic or Orthodox priest; Father (title of address)
神獸	mythological animal
神異	magical; miraculous; mystical
神社	(historical) shrine or altar for sacrifices to local or ancestral deities (in ancient China)
神祇	god; deity
神祕莫測	mystery; unfathomable; enigmatic
神祖	Godhead
神神道道	odd; weird; abnormal
神祠	shrine
神秘	mysterious; mystery
神秘主義	mysticism
神秘面紗	veil of mystery
神童	child prodigy
神筆	lit. divine pen; fig. outstanding writing
神級	(Internet slang) god-tier; legendary
神經	nerve; mental state; (coll.) unhinged
神經中樞	(anatomy) nerve center
神經元	neuron
神經元網	neural network
神經原纖維	(anatomy) neurofibril
神經外科	neurosurgery
神經大條	thick-skinned; insensitive
神經失常	mental aberration; nervous abnormality
神經學	neurology
神經學家	neurologist
神經官能症	neurosis
神經性	neural; mental; neurological
神經性毒劑	nerve agent; nerve gas
神經毒素	neurotoxin
神經氨酸酶	neuraminidase (the N of virus such as bird flu H5N1)
神經生物學	neurobiology
神經病	mental disorder; neuropathy; (derog.) mental case
神經症	neurosis
神經痛	neuralgia (medicine)
神經科	neurology department
神經突	nerve process
神經管	neural tube (embryology)
神經節	(anatomy) ganglion
神經系統	(anatomy) nervous system
神經索	nerve cord
神經細胞	nerve cell; neuron
神經網	neural net
神經網絡	neural network
神經網路	neural network (artificial or biological)
神經纖維	(anatomy) nerve fiber
神經纖維瘤	(medicine) neurofibroma
神經膠質	glial cell; neuroglia
神經膠質細胞	glial cell (provide support to neuron); neuroglia
神經衰弱	nervous exhaustion; neurasthenia; mental breakdown (often used to describe what is now understood to be clinical depression)
神經質	nervous; on edge; excitable
神經過敏	jumpy; nervous; oversensitive
神經遞質	neurotransmitter
神聖	divine; hallow; holy
神聖不可侵犯	sacred; inviolable
神聖羅馬帝國	the Holy Roman Empire (history)
神聖週	Holy week; Easter week (esp. Catholic)
神職	clergy; clerical
神職人員	clergy; cleric
神舟	Shenzhou (spacecraft); Hasee (computer manufacturer)
神舟號飛船	Shenzhou (spacecraft)
神色	expression; look
神話	legend; fairy tale; myth
神話故事	mythical story; myth
神諭	oracle
神譜	list of Gods and Immortals; pantheon
神跡	miracle
神輿	mikoshi (Japanese portable Shinto shrine)
神農	Shennong or Farmer God (c. 2000 BC), first of the legendary Flame Emperors, 炎帝[Yan2 di4] and creator of agriculture
神農本草經	Shennong's Compendium of Materia Medica, a Han dynasty pharmacological compendium, 3 scrolls
神農架	Shennongjialin, directly administered forestry reserve in east Hubei
神農架地區	Shennongjialin, directly administered forestry reserve in east Hubei
神農架林區	Shennongjialin, directly administered forestry reserve in east Hubei
神農氏	Shennong or Farmer God (c. 2000 BC), first of the legendary Flame Emperors, 炎帝[Yan2 di4] and creator of agriculture in China
神通	remarkable ability; magical power
神通廣大	(idiom) to possess great magical power; to possess remarkable abilities
神速	lightning speed; amazingly rapid; incredible pace of development
神造論	creationism
神道	Shinto (Japanese religion)
神道教	Shinto
神采	expression; spirit; vigor
神采奕奕	in glowing spirits (idiom); bursting with life
神采飛揚	in high spirits (idiom); glowing with health and vigor
神隱	to be concealed by supernatural forces; to disappear mysteriously; (fig.) to be out of the public eye
神靈	god; spirit; demon
神韻	charm or grace (in poetry or art)
神風特攻隊	Kamikaze Unit (Japanese corps of suicide pilots in World War II)
神風突擊隊	kamikaze unit (Japanese corps of suicide pilots in World War II)
神馬	mythical horse; Internet slang for 什麼|什么[shen2 me5]
神髓	lit. spirit and marrow; the essential character
神體	Godhead
神魂	mind; state of mind (often abnormal)
神魂顛倒	lit. spirit and soul upside down (idiom); infatuated and head over heels in love
神魔小說	supernatural novel; novel of ghosts and goblins
神鳥	supernatural bird
神鵰俠侶	"The Return of the Condor Heroes" (1959-61 wuxia novel by Jin Yong 金庸[Jin1 Yong1])
神龍汽車	Dongfeng Peugeot-Citroën (automobile company)
神龕	shrine; niche; household shrine
祟	evil spirit
祠	shrine; to offer a sacrifice
祠堂	ancestral hall; memorial hall
祠墓	memorial hall and tomb
祠廟	ancestral hall; temple to one's forebears
祢	you (used to address a deity)
祥	auspicious; propitious
祥光	auspicious light
祥和	auspicious and peaceful
祥瑞	auspicious sign
祥符區	Xiangfu, a district of Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
祥雲	magic cloud
祥雲縣	Xiangyun, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
祧	ancestral hall
票	ticket; ballot; banknote
票倉	safe seat (in an election); stronghold (for a political party or candidate); a district in which a majority of voters consistently votes for a particular party or candidate
票價	ticket price; fare; admission fee
票券	voucher; share; share certificate
票匯	draft remittance
票卡	machine-readable card that serves as a ticket (Tw)
票友	an amateur actor (e.g. in Chinese opera)
票友兒	an amateur actor (e.g. in Chinese opera)
票子	(coll.) cash; bill
票房	box office
票據	negotiable instrument (draft, note etc); voucher; receipt
票據法	negotiable instruments act
票數	number of votes; poll count
票根	ticket stub
票決	to decide by vote
票活	to work as amateur for no pay
票源	(Tw) voter base
票站	polling station
票箱	ballot box
票莊	money shop (ancient form of banking business)
票證	a ticket; a pass (e.g. to enter a building)
票販子	ticket scalper
票選	to vote by ballot
票面值	par value; face value (of a bond)
祫	triennial sacrifice to ancestors
祭	to offer a sacrifice to (gods or ancestors)
祭儀	sacrificial ceremony; sacrificial offering
祭典	sacrificial ceremony; religious festival
祭出	to brandish (a figurative weapon, i.e. some measure intended to deal with the situation); to resort to (some tactic)
祭司	priest
祭司權術	priestcraft
祭品	offering
祭器	ritual dishes; sacrificial vessels
祭壇	altar
祭奠	to offer sacrifices (to one's ancestors)
祭孔	to offer sacrifices to Confucius
祭弔	to mourn and offer prayers
祭拜	to offer sacrifice (to one's ancestors)
祭文	funeral oration; eulogy; elegiac address
祭灶	to offer sacrifices to the kitchen god
祭物	sacrifices
祭牲	sacrificial animal
祭祀	to offer sacrifices to the gods or ancestors
祭祖	to offer sacrifices to one's ancestors
祭禮	sacrificial offerings; worship; religious rite
祭賽	to give sacrifice
祭酒	to offer a libation; person who performs the libation before a banquet
祲	evil force
祺	(literary) good luck; good fortune
祼	pour out libation
祿	good fortune; official salary
祿位	official rank and salary
祿俸	official pay
祿勸彝族苗族自治縣	Luquan Yi and Miao Autonomous County, in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
祿命	person's lot through life
祿星	Star God of Rank and Affluence (Daoism)
祿秩	official rank and pay
祿籍	good fortune and reputation
祿蠹	sinecurist
祿豐市	Lufeng, a county-level city in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
祿食	official pay
祿養	to support sb with official pay
祿餌	official pay as bait (for talent)
禁	to prohibit; to forbid
禁不住	can't help it; can't bear it
禁不起	to be unable to stand
禁令	prohibition; ban
禁伐	a ban on logging
禁制	to control; to restrict; to prohibit
禁制令	prohibition; ban; law forbidding sth
禁區	restricted area; forbidden zone; off-limits area
禁受	to stand; to endure
禁品	contraband goods
禁售	to ban the sale of
禁地	forbidden area; restricted area; (fig.) sth considered off-limits
禁夜	curfew
禁忌	taboo; contraindication (medicine); to abstain from
禁忌語	taboo language
禁慾	to suppress desire; self-restraint; asceticism
禁慾主義	asceticism
禁戒	to abstain from; to prohibit (certain foods etc)
禁書	banned book
禁果	forbidden fruit (esp. premarital sex)
禁止	to prohibit; to forbid; to ban
禁止吸煙	No smoking!
禁止駛入	Do not enter! (road sign)
禁毒	drug prohibition
禁漁	ban on fishing
禁演	to ban (a play or movie)
禁煙	to ban smoking; to quit smoking; to prohibit cooking
禁片	banned movie
禁用	to prohibit the use of sth; to ban; (computing) to disable
禁絕	to totally prohibit; to put an end to
禁臠	exclusive property; forbidden domain
禁藥	banned drug; prohibited substance
禁衛	defense of the imperial palace or of the capital
禁衛軍	imperial guard
禁見	to deny a detainee visitation privileges
禁語	taboo (word); unmentionable word
禁賽	to ban (an athlete) from competitions
禁足	to forbid sb to go out
禁軍	imperial guard
禁運	embargo; export ban (e.g. on weapons)
禁酒	prohibition; ban on alcohol; dry law
禁酒令	prohibition; ban on alcohol
禁錮	to confine; to imprison; prohibition
禁飛區	no-fly zone
禁食	to fast; to abstain from eating
禂	to pray; prayer
禊	semiannual ceremony of purification
禋	sacrifice
禍	disaster; misfortune; calamity
禍不單行	misfortune does not come singly (idiom); it never rains but it pours
禍不旋踵	trouble is never far away (idiom)
禍亂	calamity and chaos; devastating disorder; great turmoil
禍事	disaster; doom
禍及	to bring disaster upon
禍國殃民	to damage the country and cause suffering to the people (idiom)
禍害	disaster; harm; scourge
禍從口出	Trouble issues from the mouth (idiom). A loose tongue may cause a lot of trouble.
禍心	evil intent; malice
禍患	disaster; calamity
禍根	root of the trouble; cause of the ruin
禍水	source of calamity (esp. of women)
禍福	disaster and happiness
禍福吉凶	fate; portent; luck or disasters as foretold in the stars (astrology)
禍福無常	disaster and happiness do not follow rules (idiom); future blessings and misfortunes are unpredictable
禍福與共	to stick together through thick and thin (idiom)
禍首	chief offender; main culprit
禎	auspicious; lucky
福	surname Fu; abbr. for Fujian province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
福佬	Hoklo
福克	Fock or Foch (name)
福克斯	Fox (media company); Focus (car manufactured by Ford)
福克納	William Faulkner (1897-1962), American novelist and poet
福克蘭群島	Falkland Islands
福分	one's happy lot; good fortune
福利	benefit (provided by an employer or organization); (social) welfare
福利事業	welfare services
福利品	reconditioned or showroom item
福利院	welfare agency
福地	happy land; paradise
福報	karmic reward (Buddhism)
福壽	happiness and longevity
福壽綿長	good luck and long life
福壽螺	giant Amazon snail (Ampullaria gigas spix) that has devastated rice paddies in China since its introduction in the 1980s
福如東海	may your happiness be as immense as the East Sea (idiom)
福委會	welfare committee; abbr. for 福利委員會|福利委员会
福娃	Fuwa (official 2008 Olympic mascots)
福安市	Fu'an, a county-level city in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
福山區	Fushan, a district of Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
福岡	Fukuoka (city in Japan, capital of Fukuoka prefecture)
福島	Fukushima (Japanese surname and place name)
福州市	Fuzhou, prefecture-level city and capital of Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
福布斯	Forbes (US publisher); Forbes magazine
福建省	Fujian Province, capital Fuzhou 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4] (short name 閩|闽[Min3])
福彩	lottery run by China Welfare Lottery, a government agency that uses a portion of the money from ticket sales to fund welfare projects (abbr. for 福利彩票[fu2 li4 cai3 piao4])
福摩薩	Formosa
福斯	(Tw) Volkswagen (car manufacturer); Fox Entertainment Group
福斯塔夫	Falstaff (Shakespearian character)
福斯特	Foster or Forster (name)
福星	mascot; lucky star
福星高照	lucky star in the ascendant (idiom); a lucky sign
福晉	in Qing dynasty, Manchurian word for wife
福林	forint (Hungarian currency) (loanword)
福柯	Michel Foucault (1926-1984), French philosopher
福樓拜	Gustave Flaubert (1821-1880), French realist novelist, author of Madame Bovary
福氣	good fortune; a blessing
福泉市	Fuquan, a county-level city in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
福海縣	Fuhai, a county in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
福清市	Fuqing, a county-level city in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
福澤	good fortune
福澤諭吉	Fukuzawa Yukichi (1835-1901), prominent Japanese Westernizer, liberal educator and founder of Keio University
福無雙至	(idiom) blessings never come in pairs
福煦	Ferdinand Foch (1851-1929), leading French general and commander-in-chief of allied forces in the latter stages of World War One
福爾	Félix Faure (1841-1899), president of France 1895-1899
福爾摩斯	Sherlock Holmes, 歇洛克·福爾摩斯|歇洛克·福尔摩斯[Xie1 luo4 ke4 · Fu2 er3 mo2 si1]
福爾摩沙	Formosa (Tw)
福爾馬林	(loanword) formalin
福特	Ford (name); Ford, US car make
福特汽車	Ford Motor Company
福瑞	(loanword) furry (anthropomorphic animal character)
福田	field for growing happiness
福田區	Futian, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
福田康夫	FUKUDA Yasuo (1936-), Japanese LDP politician, prime minister 2007-2008
福相	facial expression of good fortune; joyous and contented look
福祉	well-being; welfare
福祿貝爾	surname Fröbel or Froebel
福科	Michel Foucault (1926-1984), French philosopher
福維克	Vorwerk (brand)
福綿區	Fumian, a district of Yulin City 玉林市[Yu4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
福袋	fukubukuro or "lucky bag", Japanese New Year custom where merchants offer grab bags containing random products at a steep discount
福貢縣	Fugong, a county in Nujiang Lisu Autonomous Prefecture 怒江傈僳族自治州[Nu4 jiang1 Li4 su4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
福音	good news; glad tidings; gospel
福音書	gospel
福馬林	(Tw) (loanword) formalin
福鼎市	Fuding, a county-level city in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
禑	happy; used in historical names
禔	well-being
禕	excellent; precious; rare
禖	heir-requesting sacrifice
禘	imperial ancestral sacrifice
禚	place name
禛	to receive blessings in a sincere spirit
禜	sacrifice
禠	felicity; blessing
禡	(arch.) religious ritual on setting out for war
禢	surname Ta
禤	surname Xuan
禦	(bound form) to defend; to resist
禦夫座	Auriga (constellation)
禦寒	to defend against the cold; to keep warm
禦敵	armed enemy of the nation; enemy of the Emperor
禧	joy
禧瑪諾	Shimano (brand)
禨	omen; pray
禪	dhyana (Sanskrit); Zen; meditation (Buddhism)
禪位	to abdicate (as king)
禪修	to practice Zen (esp. meditation)
禪城區	Chancheng, a district of Foshan City 佛山市[Fo2 shan1 Shi4], Guangdong
禪堂	meditation room (in Buddhist monastery)
禪宗	Zen Buddhism
禪師	honorific title for a Buddhist monk
禪房	a room in a Buddhist monastery; a temple
禪杖	the staff of a Buddhist monk
禪林	a Buddhist temple
禪機	Buddhist allegorical word or gesture; subtleties of Buddhist doctrine
禪讓	to abdicate
禪門五宗	the five schools of Chan Buddhism
禪院	Buddhist hall
禫	sacrifice at the end of mourning
禮	surname Li; abbr. for 禮記|礼记[Li3 ji4], Classic of Rites
禮佛	to worship Buddha; to pray to Buddha
禮俗	etiquette; custom
禮儀	etiquette; ceremony
禮儀之邦	(idiom) a land of ceremony and propriety
禮制	etiquette; system of rites
禮券	gift voucher; gift coupon
禮包	gift bag; gift package
禮品	gift; present
禮單	list of gifts
禮器	ritual object; sacrificial vessel
禮堂	assembly hall; auditorium
禮多人不怪	nobody will find fault with extra courtesy (idiom)
禮尚往來	lit. proper behavior is based on reciprocity (idiom)
禮崩樂壞	rites and music are in ruins (idiom); fig. society in total disarray
禮帽	hat that goes with formal dress; top hat
禮拜	to attend a religious service; (coll.) week; (coll.) Sunday
禮拜一	Monday
禮拜三	Wednesday
禮拜二	Tuesday
禮拜五	Friday
禮拜六	Saturday
禮拜四	Thursday
禮拜堂	chapel; church (Protestant)
禮拜天	Sunday
禮拜日	Sunday
禮教	Confucian code of ethics
禮教吃人	sufferings brought about by Confucian ethics
禮數	etiquette; (old) gradation of etiquette with social status
禮服	ceremonial robe; formal attire (dinner suit, evening gown etc)
禮服店	(Tw) nightlife venue where hostesses wear formal evening gowns
禮樂	(Confucianism) rites and music (the means of regulating society)
禮泉縣	Liquan, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
禮法	etiquette; ceremonial rites
禮炮	gun salute (e.g. 21-gun salute); salvo
禮炮號	Salyut (salute), Russian spacecraft series
禮物	gift; present
禮節	etiquette
禮經	Classic of Rites (same as 禮記|礼记[Li3 ji4])
禮縣	Li County or Lixian, a county in Longnan City 隴南市|陇南市[Long3 nan2 Shi4], Gansu
禮義	righteousness; justice
禮義廉恥	(idiom) propriety, justice, integrity and a sense of shame (i.e. the four social bonds, 四維|四维[si4 wei2])
禮花	fireworks
禮記	Classic of Rites
禮讓	to show consideration for (others); to yield to (another vehicle etc)
禮讚	to praise; well done, bravo!
禮貌	courtesy; politeness; manners; courteous; polite
禮賓	protocol; official etiquette
禮賓員	concierge
禮賓部	concierge department of a hotel or resort
禮賢下士	respect for the wise
禮輕人意重	slight present but weighty meaning (idiom); It's not the present the counts, it's the thought behind it.
禮輕人意重，千里送鵝毛	goose feather sent from afar, a slight present but weighty meaning (idiom); It's not the present the counts, it's the thought behind it.
禮輕情意重	goose feather sent from afar, a trifling present with a weighty thought behind it (idiom); It's not the gift that counts, but the thought behind it.
禮遇	courtesy; deferential treatment; polite reception
禮部	Ministry of (Confucian) Rites (in imperial China)
禮部尚書	Director of Board of Rites (Confucian)
禮金	monetary gift
禰	memorial tablet in a temple commemorating a deceased father
禱	prayer; pray; supplication
禱告	to pray; prayer
禱念	to pray; to say one's prayers
禱文	litany (text of a prayer)
禱祝	to pray (for sth)
禱詞	litany (text of a prayer)
禳	sacrifice for avoiding calamity
禳解	to pray to the gods for the avoidance of a misfortune
禴	spring imperial ancestral sacrifice
禸	trample
禹	Yu the Great (c. 21st century BC), mythical leader who tamed the floods
禹城市	Yucheng, a county-level city in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
禹州市	Yuzhou, a county-level city in Xuchang City 許昌市|许昌市[Xu3 chang1 Shi4], Henan
禹會區	Yuhui, a district of Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
禹王台區	Yuwangtai, a district of Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
禺	(archaic) district; (old) type of monkey
离	mythical beast (archaic)
禽	(bound form) birds; fowl; (literary) birds and animals
禽流感	bird flu; avian influenza
禽獸	birds and animals; creature; beast (brutal person)
禽獸不如	worse than a beast; to behave immorally
禽畜	poultry and livestock
禽蛋	bird eggs
禽類	bird species; birds
禽鳥	birds; fowl
禽龍	iguanodon
禾	(bound form) grain plant; cereal crop
禾場	threshing floor
禾木科	gramineae (family including bamboo, cereals, rice)
禾本科	Graminae or Poaceae, the grass family
禾稈	straw
禾稻	paddy (rice)
禾穀	cereal; food grain
禾苗	seedling (of rice or other grain)
禾草	grass
禿	bald (lacking hair or feathers); barren; bare; denuded
禿子	bald-headed person; baldy
禿寶蓋	name of "cover" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 14)
禿瓢	bald head (colloquial)
禿瘡	(dialect) favus of the scalp (skin disease)
禿發	a branch of the Xianbei 鮮卑|鲜卑 nomadic people
禿頂	bald head
禿頭	to bare one's head; to be bareheaded; to go bald; bald head
禿驢	(derog.) Buddhist monk
禿鷲	vulture; (bird species of China) cinereous vulture (Aegypius monachus)
禿鷹	vulture; condor
禿鸛	(bird species of China) lesser adjutant (Leptoptilos javanicus)
禿鼻烏鴉	(bird species of China) rook (Corvus frugilegus)
秀	(bound form) refined; elegant; graceful; beautiful
秀場	live show venue
秀外慧中	good-looking and intelligent (idiom)
秀山	Xiushan Tujia and Miao Autonomous County in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
秀山土家族苗族自治縣	Xiushan Tujia and Miao Autonomous County in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
秀山縣	Xiushan Tujia and Miao Autonomous County in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
秀峰區	Xiufeng, a district of Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
秀嶼區	Xiuyu, a district of Putian City 莆田市[Pu2 tian2 Shi4], Fujian
秀恩愛	to publicly display one's affection for one's partner
秀才	a person who has passed the county level imperial exam (historical)
秀才不出門，全知天下事	a learned person need not leave his home to know what's going on in the world (idiom)
秀才不出門，能知天下事	a learned person need not leave his home to know what's going on in the world (idiom)
秀氣	delicate; graceful
秀洲區	Xiuzhou, a district of Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
秀珍菇	oyster mushroom (Pleurotus ostreatus)
秀美	elegant; graceful
秀肌肉	to flex one's muscles; (fig.) (of a person, country etc) to demonstrate one's strength
秀色可餐	a feast for the eyes (idiom); (of women) gorgeous; graceful
秀色孫鰈	yellowtail
秀英區	Xiuying, a district of Haikou City 海口市[Hai3 kou3 Shi4], Hainan
秀逗	to short-circuit; (fig.) to have a mental lapse
秀雅	exquisite; in good taste
秀髮	beautiful hair
秀麗	pretty; beautiful
私	personal; private; selfish
私下	in private
私了	to settle privately; to solve behind closed doors
私事	personal matters
私交	personal friendship
私人	private; personal; interpersonal
私人服務器	(gaming) server emulator; private server
私人鑰匙	private key (in encryption)
私仇	personal grudge
私企	private enterprise; abbr. of 私營企業|私营企业[si1 ying2 qi3 ye4]
私信	private correspondence; personal letter
私偏	selfish preference
私利	personal gain; (one's own) selfish interest
私募	private placement (investing)
私募基金	private equity fund
私吞	to misappropriate (public funds etc); to embezzle
私囊	one's own pocket
私塾	private school (in former times)
私奔	to elope
私宅	private residence
私定終身	to make a pledge to be married, without parents' approval
私家	private; privately owned or managed
私家車	private car
私密	private; secret; intimate
私底下	privately; secretly; confidentially
私弊	fraudulent practice
私德	personal morality; private moral conduct
私心	selfishness; selfish motives
私情	personal considerations; love affair
私憤	personal spite; malice
私房	privately-owned house; private rooms; private ownings
私房錢	secret purse; secret stash of money
私掠	to privateer
私教	personal trainer
私會	(of lovers) to meet in secret; to have a clandestine rendezvous
私有	private; privately-owned
私有制	private ownership of property
私有化	privatization; to privatize
私服	(gaming) server emulator; private server (abbr. for 私人服務器|私人服务器[si1 ren2 fu2 wu4 qi4])
私模	(manufacturing) proprietary mold; custom mold
私欲	selfish desire
私法	private law
私營	privately-owned; private
私營企業	private business
私生女	illegitimate daughter
私生子	illegitimate son
私生子女	illegitimate child
私生活	private life
私產	private property
私立	privately-run; private (school, hospital etc); to set up illegally
私立學校	private school
私第	(literary) private residence; private house
私聊	(computing) to chat privately; private chat
私自	private; personal; secretly; without explicit approval
私藏	to keep hidden; to keep in one's private possession; secret store
私處	private parts; genitalia
私行	to travel on private business; to act without official approval
私訊	(Tw) private message; to send a private message
私語	to discuss in whispered tones; whispered conversation
私賣	to sell illicitly; to bootleg; to sell privately
私辦	privately-run
私通	to have secret ties with
私運	to smuggle
私邸	private residence of a high-ranking official (as distinct from an official residence)
私釀	to brew alcoholic drinks illegally
私鑰	(cryptography) private key
私闖	to enter (a place) without permission; to intrude into
私隱	(HK) privacy
私鹽	illegally-traded salt (with salt tax not paid)
秈	common rice
秉	to grasp; to hold; to maintain
秉公	justly; impartially
秉公辦理	conducting business impartially (idiom); to act justly
秉性	innate character; natural disposition; attitude
秉承	to take orders; to receive commands; to carry on (a tradition)
秉持	to uphold; to hold fast to
秉筆	to hold the pen; to do the actual writing
秉筆直書	to record faithfully
秊	grain; harvest (old)
秋	autumn; fall; harvest time
秋令	autumn; autumn weather
秋刀魚	Pacific saury (Cololabis saira)
秋分	Qiufen or Autumn Equinox, 16th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 23rd September-7th October
秋分點	the autumn equinox
秋天	autumn
秋季	autumn; fall
秋審	autumn trial (judicial hearing of capital cases during Ming and Qing)
秋征	autumn levy (tax on harvest)
秋後算帳	lit. settle accounts after the autumn harvest (idiom)
秋後算賬	lit. to settle accounts after autumn (idiom)
秋播	sowing in autumn (for a crop in spring)
秋收	fall harvest; to reap
秋收起義	Autumn Harvest Uprising (1927), insurrection in Hunan and Jiangxi provinces led by Mao Zedong
秋日	autumn; fall
秋景	autumn scenery; harvest season
秋榜	results of the autumn imperial examinations
秋毫	fine hair grown by animals (or down grown by birds) in the fall
秋毫無犯	(idiom) (of soldiers) highly disciplined, not committing the slightest offense against civilians
秋水	limpid autumn waters (trad. description of girl's beautiful eyes)
秋水仙	autumn crocus (Colchicum autumnale); meadow saffron
秋水仙素	colchicine (pharmacy)
秋水仙鹼	colchicine (a toxic alkaloid used to treat gout)
秋汛	autumn flood
秋波	autumn ripples; (fig.) luminous eyes of a woman; amorous glance
秋海棠	begonia
秋涼	the cool of autumn
秋灌	autumn irrigation
秋熟	ripening in autumn (of crops)
秋燥	autumn dryness disease (TCM)
秋獮	(of an emperor) to hunt in autumn
秋瑾	Qiu Jin (1875-1907), famous female martyr of the anti-Qing revolution, the subject of several books and films
秋田	Akita (prefecture and city in Japan)
秋田犬	Akita (dog breed)
秋糧	autumn grain crops
秋老虎	hot spell during autumn; Indian summer
秋耕	autumn plowing
秋色	colors of autumn; autumn scenery
秋荼密網	flowering autumn grass, fine net (idiom); fig. abundant and exacting punishments prescribed by law
秋菜	autumn vegetables
秋葉	autumn leaf
秋葉原	Akihabara, region of downtown Tokyo famous for electronics stores
秋葵	okra (Abelmoschus esculentus)
秋衣	long underwear
秋裝	autumn clothing; autumn clothes
秋褲	long underwear pants
秋試	autumn exam (triennial provincial exam during Ming and Qing)
秋遊	autumn outing; autumn excursion
秋闈	autumn exam (triennial provincial exam during Ming and Qing)
秋雨	autumn rain
秋霜	autumn frost; fig. white hair as sign of old age
秋風掃落葉	lit. as the autumn gale sweeps away the fallen leaves (idiom); to drive out the old and make a clean sweep
秋風送爽	the cool autumn breeze (idiom)
秋風過耳	lit. as the autumn breeze passes the ear (idiom); not in the least concerned
秋風颯颯	the autumn wind is soughing (idiom)
秋高氣爽	clear and refreshing autumn weather
科	branch of study; administrative section; division
科什圖尼察	surname Kostunica
科企	science & technology and industry; tech company
科佩爾	Koper (port city of Slovenia)
科倫坡	Colombo, capital of Sri Lanka
科儀	ritual (Daoism)
科克	Cork, city in Ireland
科利奧蘭納斯	Coriolanus, 1607 tragedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚
科卿	Cochin (in south India)
科右中旗	Horqin right center banner, Mongolian Khorchin Baruun Garyn Dund khoshuu, in Hinggan league 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 meng2], east Inner Mongolia
科右前旗	Horqin right front banner, Mongolian Khorchin Baruun Garyn Ömnöd khoshuu, in Hinggan league 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 meng2], east Inner Mongolia
科名	rank obtained in the imperial examinations; scholarly honors
科奈	Kenai (Peninsula, Lake, Mountains), Alaska
科威特	Kuwait
科學	science; scientific knowledge; scientific
科學主義	scientism
科學史	history of science
科學執政	governance based on rationality, evidence and scientific principles
科學家	scientist
科學實驗	scientific experiment
科學幻想	science fiction
科學怪人	Frankenstein (novel)
科學技術	science and technology
科學技術是第一生產力	science and technology is the number one productive force (from a 1978 speech by Deng Xiaoping 鄧小平|邓小平[Deng4 Xiao3 ping2] introducing the Four Modernizations 四個現代化|四个现代化[si4 ge5 xian4 dai4 hua4])
科學技術現代化	modernization of science and technology, one of Deng Xiaoping's Four Modernizations
科學普及	popularization of science
科學界	world of science; scientific circles
科學發展觀	Scientific Outlook on Development, a guiding principle for the CCP attributed to Hu Jintao 胡錦濤|胡锦涛[Hu2 Jin3 tao1], incorporated into the Constitution of the CCP in 2007
科學知識	scientific knowledge
科學研究	scientific research
科學管理	scientific management
科學編輯	editor of a scientific journal, publication etc
科學育兒	scientific parenting
科學院	academy of sciences
科室	department; administrative division; unit (e.g. intensive care unit)
科尼賽克	Koenigsegg (car manufacturer)
科布多	Qobto or Kobdo, khanate of outer Mongolia
科幻	science fiction; abbr. for 科學幻想|科学幻想[ke1 xue2 huan4 xiang3]
科幻小說	science fiction novel
科幻電影	science fiction movie
科恩	Cohen (name)
科托努	Cotonou (city in Benin)
科技	science and technology
科技人員	scientific and technical staff
科技工作者	worker in science and technology
科技感	high tech feel (of a product etc)
科技樹	tech tree; pattern or sequence of technological development (in gaming or metaphorically in real-world innovation)
科技臉	a face noticeably modified by plastic surgery, botox etc
科技驚悚	techno-thriller (novel); science fiction thriller
科技驚悚小說	techno-thriller novel
科摩洛	Comoros
科摩羅	Union of the Comoros
科教	science and education; science education
科教片	science education film; popular science movie
科教興國	to invigorate the country through science and education
科普	popularization of science (abbr. for 科學普及|科学普及[ke1 xue2 pu3 ji2])
科普特人	the Copts, major ethnoreligious group of Egyptian Christians
科普特語	Coptic, Afro-Asiatic language of the Copts 科普特人[Ke1 pu3 te4 ren2], spoken in Egypt until late 17th century
科朗	colón (currency of Costa Rica and former currency of El Salvador)
科林	Colin (name)
科林·弗思	Colin Firth, English actor (1960-)
科林斯	Corinth, a city-state of ancient Greece
科比	(name) Coby; Colby; Kirby
科浦	Coop, Swiss retailer branded as "coop"
科澤科德	old Chinese name for Calicut, town on Arabian sea in Kerala, India
科爾	Kohl (name)
科爾多瓦	Córdoba, Spain
科爾沁區	Horqin, a district of Tongliao City 通遼市|通辽市[Tong1 liao2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
科爾沁右翼中旗	Horqin right center banner, Mongolian Khorchin Baruun Garyn Dund khoshuu, in Hinggan league 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 meng2], east Inner Mongolia
科爾沁右翼前旗	Horqin right front banner, Mongolian Khorchin Baruun Garyn Ömnöd khoshuu, in Hinggan league 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 meng2], east Inner Mongolia
科爾沁左翼中旗	Horqin Left Middle banner or Khorchin Züün Garyn Dund khoshuu in Tongliao 通遼|通辽[Tong1 liao2], Inner Mongolia
科爾沁左翼後旗	Horqin Left Rear banner or Khorchin Züün Garyn Xoit khoshuu in Tongliao 通遼|通辽[Tong1 liao2], Inner Mongolia
科特布斯	Cottbus (city in Germany)
科特迪瓦	Côte d'Ivoire or Ivory Coast in West Africa
科特迪瓦共和國	Republic of Côte d'Ivoire
科班	(old) school for Chinese opera
科甲	imperial examinations
科目	academic subject; field of study
科盲	person who is ignorant about science and technology
科研	(scientific) research
科研人員	(scientific) researcher
科研小組	a scientific research group
科研樣機	research prototype
科系	department
科納克里	Conakry, capital of Guinea
科級	(administrative) section-level
科索沃	Kosovo
科羅娜	Corona (beer)
科羅恩病	Krohn's disease
科羅拉多	Colorado
科羅拉多大峽谷	the Grand Canyon (Colorado)
科羅拉多州	Colorado
科羅納	Corona; Colonna
科考	preliminary round of imperial examinations
科考隊	scientific exploration team; expedition
科舉	imperial examination
科舉制	imperial examination system
科舉考試	imperial examinations (in former times)
科茨沃爾德	the Cotswolds (England)
科莫多龍	Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis)
科西嘉島	Corsica (Island located west of Italy and southeast of France)
科迪勒拉	Cordillera, series of mountain ranges stretching from Patagonia in South America through to Alaska and Aleutian Islands
科迪勒拉山系	Cordillera, series of mountain ranges stretching from Patagonia in South America through to Alaska and Aleutian islands
科長	section chief
科隆	Cologne, Germany; Colón, Panama
科隆水	cologne
科隆群島	Galapagos Islands
秒	second (unit of time); arc second (angular measurement unit)
秒回	(neologism) (slang) to respond to a message within seconds
秒射	to ejaculate within a few seconds during sex
秒差距	parsec (astronomy)
秒懂	to understand instantly
秒殺	(Internet) flash sale
秒看	(coll.) to take in at a glance
秒秒鐘	in a matter of seconds; swiftly; rapidly
秒表	stopwatch
秒針	second hand (of a clock)
秒鐘	(time) second
秕	grain not fully grown; husks; withered grain
秕子	blighted grain
秕穀	grain not fully grown
秕糠	chaff; worthless stuff
秖	grain that has begun to ripen
秘	secret; secretary
秘密	secret; private; confidential; clandestine; a secret
秘密基地	hideaway; private or insider-only place
秘密會社	a secret society
秘密活動	clandestine activities; covert operation
秘密警察	secret police
秘技	cheat code
秘書	secretary
秘書處	secretariat
秘書長	secretary-general
秘笈	secret book or collection of books
秘籍	rare book; cheat code (video games)
秘聞	matters (concerning a prominent family etc) intended to be kept private
秘製	to prepare (food etc) using a secret recipe
秘訣	secret know-how; key (to longevity); secret (of happiness)
秘辛	behind-the-scenes story; details known only to insiders
秘銀	mithril (fictional metal)
秘魯	Peru
秘魯苦蘵	Peruvian ground-cherry; cape gooseberry; Physalis peruviana
秜	early-maturing rice
租	to hire; to rent; to charter
租佃	to rent out one's land (to tenant farmers)
租借	to rent; to lease
租借地	concession (territory)
租債	rent and debt
租價	rent price
租地	to rent land; to lease farmland
租子	rent (payment)
租客	tenant
租戶	tenant; person who leases
租房	to rent an apartment
租用	to lease; to hire; to rent (sth from sb)
租界	foreign concession, an enclave occupied by a foreign power (in China in the 19th and 20th centuries)
租稅	taxation; in former times, esp. land tax
租約	lease
租船	to charter a ship; to take a vessel on rent
租讓	to lease out; to rent (one's property out to sb else)
租賃	to rent; to lease; to hire
租車	to rent a car; rental car
租金	rent
租錢	rent; same as 租金
秠	(millet)
秣	feed a horse with grain; horse feed
秤	to weigh (variant of 稱|称[cheng1])
秤桿	the beam of a steelyard; a balance arm
秤盤	the tray or pan of a steelyard balance
秤砣	steelyard weight; standard weight
秤砣雖小壓千斤	although small, a steelyard weight may tip a hundred pounds (idiom)
秤鉤	steelyard hook
秤錘	steelyard weights
秦	surname Qin
秦二世	Qin Ershi (229-207 BC), second Qin emperor
秦代	Qin dynasty (221-207 BC), founded by the first emperor Qin Shihuang 秦始皇[Qin2 Shi3 huang2], the first dynasty to rule the whole of China
秦吉了	mythical talking bird; mynah bird
秦國	the state of Qin, one of the seven states of the Warring States Period (475-220 BC)
秦城監獄	Qincheng Prison, maximum-security prison located about 30 km north of central Beijing, whose inmates include former high-level officials convicted of corruption
秦始皇	Qin Shihuang (259-210 BC), the first emperor
秦始皇帝	the First Emperor 259-210 BC
秦始皇帝陵	the mausoleum of the First Emperor near Xi'an
秦始皇陵	the tomb of the first emperor at Mt Li 驪山|骊山[Li2 shan1] near Xi'an (awaits excavation)
秦孝公	Duke Xiao of Qin, 秦國|秦国[Qin2 guo2], ruled 361-338 BC during the Warring States Period
秦安縣	Qin'an, a county in Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
秦嶺	Qinling Mountain Range in Shaanxi forming a natural barrier between the Guanzhong Plain 關中平原|关中平原[Guan1 zhong1 Ping2 yuan2] and the Han River 漢水|汉水[Han4 shui3] valley
秦嶺山脈	Qinling Mountain Range in Shaanxi, forming a natural barrier between the Guanzhong Plain 關中平原|关中平原[Guan1 zhong1 Ping2 yuan2] and the Han River 漢水|汉水[Han4 shui3] valley
秦嶺蜀棧道	the Qinling plank road to Shu, a historical mountain road from Shaanxi to Sichuan
秦州區	Qinzhou, a district of Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
秦惠文王	King Huiwen of Qin 秦國|秦国, ruled 338-311 BC during the Warring States Period
秦朝	Qin Dynasty (221-207 BC)
秦末	the end of the Qin dynasty 207 BC
秦椒	(dialect) hot pepper (long and thin); same as 花椒[hua1 jiao1]
秦檜	Qin Hui (1090-1155 AD), Song Dynasty official said to have betrayed General Yue Fei 岳飛|岳飞[Yue4 Fei1]
秦淮八艷	the famous eight beautiful and talented courtesans who lived near the Qinhuai River 秦淮河[Qin2 huai2 He2] in the late Ming or early Qing
秦淮區	Qinhuai, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
秦淮河	Qinhuai River, a tributary of the Yangtze that flows through central Nanjing
秦漢	the Qin (221-207 BC) and Han (206 BC-220 AD) dynasties
秦火	the Qin burning of the books in 212 BC
秦牧	Qin Mu (1919-1992), educator and prolific writer
秦皇島市	Qinhuangdao, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
秦穆公	Duke Mu of Qin, the first substantial king of Qin (ruled 659-621 BC), sometimes considered one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸
秦篆	seal script as unified by the Qin dynasty
秦腔	Qinqiang, an opera style popular in northwest China, possibly originating in Ming dynasty folk music
秦艽	large leaf gentian (Gentiana macrophylla)
秦越人	Qin Yueren (407-310 BC), Warring States physician known for his medical skills
秦軍	the Qin army (model for the terracotta warriors)
秦都區	Qindu, a district of Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
秦陵	the tomb of the First Emperor at Mt Li 驪山|骊山[Li2 shan1] near Xi'an (awaits excavation)
秦韜玉	Qin Taoyu, Tang poet, author of the poem "A Poor Woman" 貧女|贫女[Pin2 nu : 3]
秧	sapling; seedling; sprout; (esp.) rice seedling; stem; stalk; vine
秧子	sapling; seedling; sprout; (esp.) rice seedling; stem; stalk; vine
秧歌	Yangge, a popular rural folk dance
秧歌劇	Yangge opera, a rural form of theater
秧田	rice seedling bed
秧苗	seedling; (esp.) rice seedling
秩	(literary) salary according to rank; (literary) an official's rank
秩序	order; orderliness (in society, in the classroom, on the roads etc)
秩序井然	in perfect order
秩序美	order (as an aesthetic quality)
秩祿	official salaries
秫	glutinous sorghum
秫秸	sorghum stalk
秫米	grain of glutinous sorghum
秬	black millet
秭	billion
秭歸縣	Zigui, a county in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
秷	sound of reaping
秸	grain stalks left after threshing
秸稈	straw
移	to move; to shift; to change
移交	to transfer; to hand over
移位	to shift; shift; translocation
移住	to migrate; to resettle
移借	to put to a different use; to borrow; (linguistics) borrowing
移動	to move; movement; migration
移動平均線	moving average (in financial analysis)
移動式	mobile
移動式電話	mobile telephone
移動性	mobility
移動硬盤	portable hard drive; external hard drive
移動設備	mobile device (smartphone, tablet, etc)
移動電源	power bank; portable charger
移動電話	mobile telephone
移去	to move away
移居	to migrate; to move to a new place of residence
移山倒海	lit. to move mountains and drain seas; to transform nature
移山志	the will to move mountains; fig. high ambitions
移工	(Tw) foreign worker (abbr. for 移住勞工|移住劳工[yi2 zhu4 lao2 gong1])
移師	to move troops to; (fig.) to move to; to shift to
移情	to redirect one's affections
移情別戀	change of affection, shift of love (idiom); to change one's feelings to another love
移時	for a while
移栽	to transplant (horticulture, agriculture)
移植	to transplant
移植性	portability
移植手術	(organ) transplant operation
移機	to relocate a piece of equipment (air conditioner etc)
移民	to immigrate; to migrate; emigrant
移民局	immigration office
移民工	migrant worker
移民者	migrant; immigrant
移液器	pipette
移液管	pipette
移用	to use (sth) for a purpose other than its original one; to adapt (tools, methods etc) for another purpose
移花接木	(lit.) to graft flowers onto a tree (idiom)
移調	to transpose (music)
移轉	to shift; to transfer
移送	to transfer (a case, a person, files etc)
移送法辦	to bring to justice; to hand over to the law
移開	to move away
移除	to remove
移風易俗	(idiom) to reform habits and customs
稀	sparse; scattered; rare; uncommon; diluted; thin; watery
稀世	rare
稀土	rare earth (chemistry)
稀土元素	rare earth element (chemistry)
稀土金屬	rare earth element
稀奇	rare; strange
稀奇古怪	(idiom) crazy; bizarre; weird; fantastic; strange
稀客	infrequent visitor
稀少	sparse; rare
稀巴爛	smashed up; broken into pieces
稀有	uncommon; rare
稀有元素	(chemistry) rare element
稀有氣體	rare gas; noble gas (chemistry)
稀爛	thoroughly mashed; mushy; smashed up; broken into pieces
稀疏	sparse; infrequent; thinly spread
稀稀拉拉	sparse and fragmentary
稀粥	water gruel; thin porridge
稀缺	scarce; scarcity
稀罕	rare; uncommon; rare thing; rarity; to value as a rarity; to cherish
稀薄	thin; rarefied
稀裏糊塗	muddleheaded; careless
稀釋	to dilute
稀里光當	thin; diluted
稀里嘩啦	(onom.) chaotic or dynamic noises (pattering, crashing, rustling, clattering, sobbing etc)
稀飯	porridge; gruel; congee
稀鬆	poor; sloppy; unconcerned
稀鬆平常	nothing special; ordinary
稀鬆骨質	cancellous bone; trabecular bone; spongy bone
稂	grass; weeds
稃	husk; outside shell of grain
稅	taxes; duties
稅制	tax system
稅前	pretax; before taxes
稅務	taxation services; state revenue service
稅務局	Tax Bureau; Inland Revenue Department (Hong Kong)
稅官	a taxman; a customs officer
稅後	after tax
稅捐	tax; levy; duty; impost
稅捐稽征處	Taipei Revenue Service (tax office)
稅收	taxation
稅款	tax payments
稅法	tax code; tax law
稅率	tax rate
稅負	tax burden
稅費	tax; levy; duty
稅賦	tax liability
稅金	tax money (paid or due)
稅關	customs house (in ancient times)
稈	stalks of grain
稊	grass; tares
程	rule; order; regulations
程不識	Cheng Bushi, Han dynasty general
程咬金	Cheng Yaojin (589-665), aka 程知節|程知节[Cheng2 Zhi1 jie2], Chinese general of the Tang dynasty
程子	(Beijing dialect) see 陣子|阵子[zhen4 zi5]
程序	procedures; sequence; order
程序員	programmer
程序庫	program library (computing)
程序性	program
程序法	procedural law
程序猿	(Internet slang) code monkey
程序碼	source code (computing)
程序設計	computer programming
程度	degree; level; extent
程式	form; pattern; formula
程式員	(Tw) programmer
程式師	(Tw) programmer
程式碼	source code (computing) (Tw)
程式語言	programming language (Tw)
程控	programmed; under automatic control
程控交換機	electronic switching system (telecom.)
程控電話	automatic telephone exchange
程昱	Cheng Yu (141-220), advisor to General Cao Cao 曹操 during the Three Kingdoms era
程海湖	Chenghai Lake in Lijiang 麗江市|丽江市, Hunan
程硯秋	Cheng Yanqiu (1904-1958), famous Beijing opera star, second only to 梅蘭芳|梅兰芳[Mei2 Lan2 fang1]
程邈	Cheng Miao, a jailer-turned-prisoner in the Qin dynasty who created the clerical style of Chinese calligraphy
程門立雪	lit. the snow piles up at Cheng Yi's door (idiom)
程頤	Cheng Yi (1033-1107), Song neo-Confucian scholar
程顥	Cheng Hao (1032-1085), Song neo-Confucian scholar
稌	sticky rice
稍	used in 稍息[shao4 xi1]
稍候	to wait a moment
稍嫌	more than one would wish; somewhat
稍後	in a little while; shortly after
稍微	a little bit
稍快板	allegretto
稍息	(military) Stand at ease!
稍早	a little early
稍早時	a little earlier
稍異	differing slightly
稍稍	somewhat; a little; slightly
稍等	to wait a moment
稍縱即逝	transient; fleeting
稍許	a little; a bit
稍食	(old) monthly salary of an official
稑	late-planted early-ripening grain
稔	(literary) ripe grain; ripe; harvest; year
稔知	(literary) to be fully aware of
稗	barnyard millet (Echinochloa crus-galli); Panicum crus-galli
稗子	barnyard grass
稗官	(old) petty official charged with reporting back to the ruler on what people in a locality are talking about
稗官野史	(idiom) unofficial history; anecdotal historical account
稙	early-planted crop
稚	infantile; young
稚女	little girl (of toddler age)
稚嫩	young and tender; puerile; soft and immature
稚子	young child
稚弱	immature and feeble
稚拙	young and clumsy; childish and awkward
稚氣	childish nature; infantile; juvenile
稚氣未脫	still possessing the innocence of childhood (idiom)
稚蟲	(entomology) naiad
稛	full
稜	used in 穆稜|穆棱[Mu4 ling2] (the name of a place in Heilongjiang)
稜柱	prism
稜臺	prism
稜角	edge and corner; protrusion; sharpness (of a protrusion)
稜錐	pyramid (geometry)
稜鏡	(optics) prism
稞	(wheat)
稟	to make a report (to a superior); to give; to endow
稟告	to report (to one's superior)
稟報	to report (to one's superior)
稟復	to report back (to a superior)
稟性	natural disposition
稟賦	natural endowment; gift; talent
稠	dense; crowded; thick
稠密	dense
稠濁	numerous and confused; forming a confused mass
種	to plant; to grow; to cultivate
種仁	seed kernel
種公畜	stud; male breeding stock (of animal species)
種加詞	(biology) specific epithet
種地	to farm; to work the land
種塊	seed tuber
種姓	caste (traditional Indian social division)
種姓制	caste system (traditional Indian social division)
種姓制度	caste system
種子	seed
種子島	Tanegashima, Japanese Island off Kyushu, the Japanese space launch site
種子植物	seed plant
種子選手	seeded player
種小名	(biology) specific epithet
種差	determinant (characteristic of a species)
種族	race; ethnic group
種族中心主義	ethnocentrism
種族主義	racism
種族主義者	racist (person)
種族歧視	racial discrimination; racism
種族清洗	"ethnic cleansing"; genocide
種族清除	ethnic cleansing
種族滅絕	genocide
種族隔離	racial segregation; apartheid
種本名	(biology) specific epithet
種植	to plant; to grow (a crop); to cultivate
種植園	plantation
種植業	plantation
種植牙	dental implant
種植體	implant (dentistry)
種樹	to plant trees
種牙	dental implant
種瓜得瓜，種豆得豆	lit. Sow melon and you get melon, sow beans and you get beans (idiom); fig. As you sow, so shall you reap.
種田	to farm; farming
種畜	breeding stock (of animal species); stud
種禽	cock; male breeding poultry
種種	all kinds of
種糧	to grow grain
種系	evolutionary line; line of descent
種群	population (of a species); community (of animals or plants)
種臍	(botany) hilum; omphalodium
種花	to grow flowers; (dialect) to vaccinate; (dialect) to grow cotton
種苗	seedling
種草	(neologism) (slang) to spark interest in a product or idea (esp. on social media)
種菜	to grow vegetables
種薯	seed tuber
種蛋	breeding egg
種類	kind; genus; type
種馬	stallion; stud horse
種麻	female hemp plant (Cannabis sativa)
稱	to fit; to match; to suit; (coll.) to have; to possess
稱之為	to call it...; known as...
稱作	to be called; to be known as
稱做	to be called; to be known as
稱呼	to call; to address as; form of address; appellation
稱多縣	Chindu, a county in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 玉樹藏族自治州|玉树藏族自治州[Yu4 shu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
稱帝	to declare oneself emperor; to win the best actor award
稱得上	can be counted as
稱心	satisfactory; agreeable
稱心如意	(idiom) after one's own heart; gratifying; satisfactory; everything one could wish
稱意	to be satisfactory
稱揚	to praise; to compliment
稱為	to be called; to be known as; to call it "..."
稱職	well qualified; competent; to be equal to the task
稱號	name; term of address; title
稱許	to praise; to commend
稱說	to declare; to state; to call; to name
稱謂	title; appellation; form of address
稱謝	to express thanks
稱譽	to acclaim; to sing the praises of
稱讚	to praise; to commend; to compliment
稱道	to commend; to praise
稱重	to weigh
稱量	to weigh
稱錢	(coll.) rich; well-heeled
稱雄	to dominate; to reign supreme
稱霸	lit. to proclaim oneself hegemon; to take a leading role
稱頌	to praise
稱願	to feel gratified (esp. at the misfortune of a loathed person); to have one's wish fulfilled
稷	millet; God of cereals worshiped by ancient rulers
稷山縣	Jishan, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
稹	to accumulate; fine and close
稻	paddy; rice (Oryza sativa)
稻作	rice cultivation
稻城縣	Daocheng, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
稻子	rice (crop); unhulled rice
稻殼	rice husk
稻浪	rice field rippling in the wind
稻田	paddy field; rice paddy
稻田葦鶯	(bird species of China) paddyfield warbler (Acrocephalus agricola)
稻田鷚	(bird species of China) paddyfield pipit (Anthus rufulus)
稻穀	unhusked rice; paddy
稻穗	rice ear
稻米	rice (crop)
稻糠	rice husk
稻苗	rice seedling
稻草	rice straw
稻草人	scarecrow
稻荷壽司	inarizushi (pouch of fried tofu typically filled with rice)
稼	to sow grain; (farm) crop
稼穡	(literary) sowing and reaping; farm work
稽	(bound form) to examine; to check (against records)
稽古	to learn from the ancients; to study the classic texts
稽古振今	studying the old to promote the new (idiom)
稽查	inspection
稽查人員	inspector
稽查員	inspector; ticket inspector
稽核	to audit; to verify; to examine
稽考	(literary) to examine; to consult (records); to investigate
稽顙	to kowtow (touch the forehead to the floor)
稿	manuscript; draft; stalk of grain
稿件	piece of writing submitted for publication; manuscript; article
稿子	draft of a document; script; manuscript
稿本	manuscript (of a book etc); sketch (of a design etc)
稿紙	draft paper
稿費	author's remuneration
稿酬	fee paid to an author for a piece of writing
穀	grain; corn
穀倉	barn
穀城縣	Gucheng, a county in Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
穀子	millet
穀梁	two-character surname Guliang
穀梁傳	Guliang Annals, commentary on the Spring and Autumn Annals 春秋[Chun1 qiu1], first published during the Han Dynasty
穀殼	husk (of rice etc); chaff
穀氨酸	glutamic acid (Glu), an amino acid
穀氨酸鈉	monosodium glutamate (MSG) (E621)
穀物	cereal; grain
穀神	harvest God
穀神星	Ceres, dwarf planet in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter, discovered in 1801 by G. Piazzi
穀穗	ear of grain; gerbe (used on coats of arms)
穀粒	grain (of cereal)
穀糠	grain chaff
穀草	straw
穀雨	Guyu or Grain Rain, 6th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 20th April-4th May
穀類	cereal; grain
穀飼	grain-fed
穄	(millet)
穆	solemn; reverent; calm
穆加貝	Robert Mugabe (1924-2019), Zimbabwean ZANU-PF politician, president of Zimbabwe 1987-2017
穆勒鞋	mule shoes (loanword)
穆夫提	(Islam) mufti (loanword from Arabic)
穆巴拉克	Hosni Mubarak (1928-2020), former Egyptian President and military commander
穆斯林	Muslim
穆桂英	Mu Guiying, female warrior and heroine of the Yang Saga 楊家將|杨家将
穆沙拉夫	Pervez Musharraf (1943-), Pakistani general and politician, president 2001-2008
穆爾西	Morsi, Mursi or Morsy (name)
穆稜市	Muling, a county-level city in Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
穆索爾斯基	Modest Mussorgsky (1839-1881), Russian composer, composer of Pictures at an Exhibition
穆罕默德	Muhammad (c. 570–632), central figure of Islam and prophet of God
穆罕默德·歐瑪	(Tw) Mullah Muhammad Omar (1960–2013), Taliban leader, Supreme Leader of Afghanistan 1996–2001
穆罕默德六世	King Mohammed VI of Morocco (1963–)
穆聖	the Prophet Muhammad
穆薩維	Moussavi, Mir Hussein (1941-), candidate in Iran's disputed 2009 elections
穆迪	Moody's, company specializing in financial market ratings
穆通	Mouton (name)
穆黑	Islamophobe
穇	panicum frumentaceum
穈	porridge; rice sprouts
穊	dense
穋	late-planted early-ripening grain
穌	archaic variant of 蘇|苏[su1]; to revive
積	to amass; to accumulate; to store up
積不相能	(idiom) always at loggerheads; never able to agree with sb; unable to get on with sb
積久	to accumulate over time
積代會	(Cultural Revolution term) conference of activist representatives (abbr. for 積極分子代表大會|积极分子代表大会[ji1 ji2 fen4 zi3 dai4 biao3 da4 hui4])
積冰	ice accretion
積分	integral (calculus); accumulated points (in sports, at school etc)
積分學	integral calculus
積分常數	constant of integration (math.)
積分方程	integral equation (math.)
積分榜	table of scores (in exams or sports league)
積分變換	integral transform (math.)
積勞成疾	to accumulate work causes sickness (idiom); to fall ill from constant overwork
積厚流廣	deep rooted and influential
積土成山	lit. piling up dirt eventually creates a mountain (idiom)
積垢	deeply accumulated filth
積壓	to pile up; to accumulate without being dealt with
積存	to stockpile
積少成多	(idiom) many little things add up to sth great; many little drops make an ocean
積年	for a long time; over many years; old
積年累月	year in, year out (idiom); (over) many years
積弊	age-old (malpractice); long established (corrupt practices)
積弱	cumulative weakness; to decline (over time); degeneration
積德	to accumulate merit; to do good; to give to charity
積德累功	to accumulate merit and virtue
積怨	grievance; accumulated rancor
積惡	accumulated evil
積惡餘殃	Accumulated evil will be repaid in suffering (idiom).
積憤	accumulated anger; pent-up fury
積攢	to save bit by bit; to accumulate
積於忽微	to accumulate tiny quantities (idiom)
積木	toy building blocks
積案	long pending case
積極	active; energetic; vigorous
積極分子	active supporter; political activist
積極反應	active response; energetic response
積極性	zeal; initiative; enthusiasm
積極進取	proactive
積水	to collect water; to be covered with water; to pond
積漸	gradually
積澱	deposits accumulated over long periods
積物	sediment; deposit
積疊	to pile up layer upon layer
積石山保安族東鄉族撒拉族自治縣	Jishishan Bonan, Dongxiang and Salar Autonomous County, in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
積祖	many generations of ancestors
積穀防饑	storing grain against a famine; to lay sth by for a rainy day
積累	to accumulate; accumulation; cumulative
積累性	cumulative
積累毒性	cumulative poison
積習	old habit (usually bad); inbred custom; deep-rooted practice
積習成俗	accumulated habits become custom
積習難改	old habits are hard to change (idiom)
積聚	to coalesce; to gather together; to amass
積肥	to accumulate manure; to lay down compost
積草屯糧	(idiom) to stockpile provisions in preparation for war
積蓄	to save; to put aside; savings
積薪厝火	to add fuel to the flames
積貯	to stockpile
積賊	confirmed thief
積重難返	ingrained habits are hard to overcome (idiom); bad old practices die hard
積金累玉	to accumulate gold and jewels (idiom); prosperous
積陰德必有陽報	(saying) doing good deeds in secret will eventually bring rewards
積雨雲	cumulonimbus (cloud)
積雪	snow; snow cover; snow mantle
積雪場	snowpack
積雲	cumulus; heap cloud
積非成是	a wrong repeated becomes right (idiom); a lie or an error passed on for a long time may be taken for the truth
積食	(of food) to retain in stomach due to indigestion (TCM)
積體電路	(Tw) integrated circuit
積鬱	(of gloomy thoughts etc) to smolder; to accumulate in one's mind
穎	head of grain; husk; tip
穎悟	intelligent; bright
穎果	(botany) caryopsis
穎異	highly intelligent; original and unique
穗	abbr. for Guangzhou 廣州|广州[Guang3 zhou1]
穗䳭	(bird species of China) northern wheatear (Oenanthe oenanthe)
穗飾	tassel
穜	early-planted late-ripening grain
穟	ear of grain
穠	lush flora
穡	gather in harvest
穢	(bound form) dirty; filthy
穢水	dirty water; polluted water; sewage
穢語	obscene language
穧	stack grain stalks evenly
穩	settled; steady; stable
穩中求進	to make progress while ensuring stability
穩便	reliable; at one's convenience; as you wish
穩健	firm; stable and steady
穩勝	to beat comfortably; to win easily
穩厚	steady and honest
穩固	stable; steady; firm
穩坐釣魚臺	lit. to sit tight on the fishing terrace despite the storm (idiom)
穩壓	stabilized voltage; regulated voltage
穩壓二極管	Zener diode
穩如泰山	steady as Mt Tai; as safe as houses
穩妥	dependable
穩婆	midwife (old term)
穩定	steady; stable; stability
穩定塘	waste stabilization pond
穩定幣	stablecoin
穩定度	degree of stability
穩定性	stability
穩實	steady; calm and practical
穩恆	steady; stable and permanent; constant
穩恆態	steady state; stable and permanent attitude
穩態	steady state; homeostasis
穩態理論	the steady-state theory (cosmology)
穩扎穩打	to go steady and strike hard (in fighting); fig. steadily and surely
穩拿	a sure gain; sth one is sure to obtain
穩控	to get (a situation) under control; to stabilize
穩操勝券	grasp it and victory is assured
穩操勝算	to be assured of success
穩步	steadily; a steady pace
穩獲	to be certain to get
穩當	reliable; secure; stable
穩練	steady and proficient; skilled and reliable
穩貼	safe; to appease; to reassure
穩重	steady; earnest; staid
穩靜	steady; calm
穫	(bound form) to reap; to harvest
穭	wild grain
穮	to weed
穰	abundant; stalk of grain
穴	cave; cavity; hole
穴位	acupuncture point; location of a grave
穴居	to live in a cave; (of animals) to be of burrowing habit
穴居人	cave man
穴播	bunch planting
穴脈	node (center of energy); acupuncture point; Chakra
穴道	acupuncture point; acupoint
穴頭	(show business) promoter
穴鳥	jackdaw (family Corvidae)
穵	to dig; to scoop out
究	after all; to investigate; to study carefully
究其根源	to trace something to its source (idiom)
究竟	to go to the bottom of a matter; after all; when all is said and done
究辦	to investigate and deal with
穸	tomb
穹	vault; dome; the sky
穹丘	dome
穹廬	yurt (round tent)
穹形	arched; vaulted; dome-shaped
穹窿	a dome; a vault; the sky
穹蒼	the sky; the firmament; the vault of heaven
穹隆	domed structure; vault
穹頂	dome; vault; domed roof
空	to empty; vacant; unoccupied
空中	in the sky; in the air
空中交通管制	air traffic control
空中交通管制員	air traffic controller
空中分列	(military) flyover
空中劫持	to hijack (a plane); aircraft hijacking; skyjacking
空中客車	Airbus (aerospace company)
空中小姐	stewardess; air hostess
空中少爺	airline steward
空中接力	alley-oop (basketball)
空中格鬥	dogfight (of planes)
空中樓閣	pavilion in the air (idiom); unrealistic Utopian construction
空中砲艦	gunship (aircraft)
空中花園	hanging gardens (Babylon etc); rooftop garden
空中飄浮	to float in the air
空中飛人	trapeze artist; frequent flyer
空乘	flight attendant; on-board service
空位	empty place; room (for sb)
空值	null value (in a relational database)
空兒	spare time; free time
空前	unprecedented
空前絕後	unprecedented and never to be duplicated; the first and the last
空勤	(aviation) in-flight services; flight crew
空包彈	blank cartridge
空匱	scarce; poor
空口	incomplete meal of a single dish
空口無憑	mere verbal statement cannot be taken as proof (idiom)
空口白話	empty promises
空口說白話	to make empty promises
空名	vacuous reputation; name without substance; in name only
空喊	idle clamor; to prattle
空地	air-to-surface (missile)
空地導彈	air-to-surface missile
空城計	the empty city stratagem (in which Zhuge Liang presents himself as unperturbed while making it evident that his city is undefended, hoping his adversary will suspect an ambush); double bluff
空域	airspace
空姐	abbr. for 空中小姐; stewardess; air hostess
空嫂	married stewardess of mature age
空子	gap; unoccupied space or time; fig. gap
空客	Airbus (abbr. for 空中客車|空中客车[Kong1 zhong1 Ke4 che1])
空室清野	empty room, clean field (idiom); clean out everything to leave nothing for the enemy
空寂	empty and silent; desolate
空對地	air-to-surface (missile)
空對空導彈	air-to-air missile
空少	airline steward (abbr. for 空中少爺|空中少爷[kong1 zhong1 shao4 ye5])
空巢	empty nest; a home where the kids have grown up and moved out
空幻	vanity; empty fantasy; illusion
空心	hollow; (of vegetables) to become hollow or spongy inside
空心大老官	fake important personage; sham
空心牆	cavity wall; hollow wall
空心球	hollow ball; (basketball) swish shot
空心菜	water spinach; kangkung
空心蘿蔔	useless person
空心麵	macaroni
空怒	air rage
空性	emptiness
空想	daydream; fantasy; to fantasize
空想家	impractical dreamer
空想性錯視	pareidolia
空想社會主義	utopian socialism
空戰	air war; air warfare
空房間	vacant room
空手	empty-handed; unarmed
空手套白狼	(coll.) to make big gains without putting in effort or resources
空手而歸	to return empty-handed; to fail to win anything
空手道	karate
空投	to airdrop
空拍	aerial photography (video or still) (Tw)
空拍機	drone equipped for aerial photography
空擋	neutral gear
空日	day that is named but not numbered (on ethnic calendar)
空暇	idle; free time; leisure
空曠	spacious and empty; void
空服員	flight attendant; cabin crew
空格	blank; blank space on a form; space
空格鍵	space bar (keyboard)
空檔	gap (between two objects); interval of time (between events)
空殼	empty shell
空殼公司	shell company; shell corporation
空氣	air; atmosphere
空氣動力	aerodynamic force
空氣動力學	aerodynamics
空氣取樣器	air sampler
空氣污染	air pollution
空氣流	flow of air; draft
空氣流通	ventilation; air circulation
空氣淨化器	air purifier
空氣炸鍋	air fryer
空氣調節	air conditioning
空氣調節器	(formal) air conditioner
空氣阻力	atmospheric drag
空氣鳳梨	air plant (genus Tillandsia 鐵蘭屬|铁兰属[tie3 lan2 shu3])
空泛	vague and general; not specific; shallow
空洞	cavity; empty; vacuous
空洞洞	empty; deserted
空洞無物	empty cave, nothing there (idiom); devoid of substance
空港	airport (abbr. for 航空港[hang2 kong1 gang3])
空無一人	not a soul in sight (idiom)
空無所有	having nothing (idiom); utterly destitute
空當	gap; interval
空疏	shallow; empty
空白	blank space
空白支票	blank check
空白點	gap; empty space
空穴	electron hole (physics)
空穴來風	lit. wind from an empty cave (idiom); fig. unfounded (story)
空穴來風未必無因	wind does not come from an empty cave without reason
空空	empty; vacuous; nothing
空空如也	as empty as anything (idiom); completely bereft; to have nothing
空空導彈	air-to-air missile
空空洞洞	empty; hollow; lacking in substance
空空盪盪	deserted
空空蕩蕩	absolutely empty (space); complete vacuum
空窗期	window period (time between infection and the appearance of detectable antibodies)
空竹	Chinese yo-yo
空缺	vacancy
空置	to set sth aside; to let sth lie idle; idle
空翻	flip; somersault
空耳	to intentionally reinterpret a spoken expression as if one had misheard it, for the sake of humor (often, it is a phrase in a foreign language twisted into a similar-sounding phrase in one's native language with a completely different meaning) (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 空耳 "soramimi")
空腔	cavity
空腸	jejunum (empty gut, middle segment of small intestine between duodenum 十二指腸|十二指肠[shi2 er4 zhi3 chang2] and ileum 回腸|回肠[hui2 chang2])
空腹	an empty stomach
空腹高心	ambitious despite a lack of talent (idiom)
空落落	empty; desolate
空著手	empty-handed
空蕩蕩	empty; deserted
空虛	hollow; emptiness; meaningless
空號	disconnected phone number; unassigned phone number
空襲	to make an air raid
空話	empty talk; bunk; malicious gossip
空話連篇	long-winded empty talk
空調	air conditioning
空調房	air-conditioned room
空調病	adverse effects caused by prolonged air-conditioning exposure, including dizziness, headaches, fatigue or chest tightness
空調車	air conditioned vehicle
空談	prattle; idle chit-chat
空谷足音	(lit.) the sound of footsteps in a deserted valley (idiom)
空跑一趟	to make a journey for nothing
空身	empty handed (carrying nothing); alone
空軍	air force
空軍一號	Air Force One, US presidential jet
空軍基地	air base
空載	(of a ship, train etc) not carrying any load (i.e. no passengers or freight etc)
空運	air transport
空運費	air freight (cost of air transport)
空鐘	diabolo (Chinese yo-yo)
空閒	leisure; spare time; (of a person) free; unoccupied
空間	space; room; (fig.) scope; leeway; (astronomy) outer space
空間局	space agency
空間探測	space exploration
空間探測器	space probe
空間站	space station
空闃	empty and quiet
空防	air force; air defense
空降	to drop from the sky; (fig.) to appear out of nowhere
空降兵	paratrooper; airborne troops
空隙	crack; gap between two objects; gap in time between two events
空集	empty set (set theory)
空難	air crash; aviation accident or incident
空頭	phony; so-called; armchair (expert)
空頭市場	bear market
空頭支票	bounced check; bad check; (idiom) empty promise
空額	vacancy; unfilled work place
空餘	free; vacant; unoccupied
穿	to bore through; to pierce; to perforate
穿一條褲子	(of male friends) to have been through thick and thin together
穿上	to put on (clothes etc)
穿刺	(medicine) to puncture; to do a needle biopsy
穿反	to wear inside out (clothes)
穿回	to put on (clothes); to put (clothes) back on
穿堂風	draft
穿孔	to punch a hole; to perforate; (medicine) perforation
穿小鞋	to have one's life made difficult by sb (usu. by sb in a position of authority) (lit. to be made to wear tight shoes)
穿山甲	pangolin (Manis pentadactylata); scaly ant-eater
穿幫	(TV or movie) blooper; continuity error; (theater) to flub one's lines
穿戴	to dress; to be dressed; clothing; apparel
穿插	to insert; to take turns, alternate; to interweave
穿搭	to mix and match; outfit coordination
穿梭	to shuttle back and forth
穿洞	pierce
穿牆	(of a ghost, Wi-Fi signal etc) to pass through a wall
穿破	to wear out (clothes); to pierce (a membrane etc)
穿著	attire; clothes; dress
穿著打扮	style of dress; one's appearance
穿著講究	smart clothes; particular about one's dress
穿行	to go through; to pass through; to thread one's way through
穿衣	to put on clothes; to get dressed
穿衣鏡	full-length mirror
穿襠	(sports) to nutmeg; to dribble or pass the ball through an opponent's legs (esp. in soccer or basketball)
穿越	to traverse; to pass through; to cross
穿越劇	time-travel drama
穿越時空	to travel through time
穿越機	FPV drone; drone piloted through a live video feed
穿透	to penetrate
穿透輻射	penetrating radiation
穿過	to pass through
穿金戴銀	richly bedecked; dripping with gold and silver (idiom)
穿針	to thread a needle
穿針引線	lit. to thread a needle (idiom); fig. to act as a go-between
穿針走線	to thread a needle
穿鑿	to bore a hole; to give a forced interpretation
穿鑿附會	(idiom) to make far-fetched claims; to offer outlandish explanations
窀	to bury
窀穸	to bury (in a tomb)
突	to dash; to move forward quickly; to bulge
突兀	lofty; towering; sudden; abrupt
突出	prominent; outstanding; to give prominence to
突厥	Turkic people, who lived across the Eurasian continent; (esp.) the Göktürks of medieval Inner Asia
突厥斯坦	Turkestan
突圍	to break a siege; to break out of an enclosure
突如其來	to arise abruptly; to arrive suddenly; happening suddenly
突尼斯	Tunisia; Tunis, capital of Tunisia
突尼斯市	Tunis, capital of Tunisia
突尼西亞	Tunisia (Tw)
突擊	sudden and violent attack; assault; fig. rushed job
突擊檢查	sudden unannounced investigation; on-the-spot inspection
突擊步槍	assault rifle
突擊隊	commando unit
突擊隊員	commando
突泉縣	Tuquan, a county in Hinggan League 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
突然	sudden; abrupt; unexpected
突然間	suddenly
突發	to occur suddenly
突發事件	emergency; sudden occurrence
突發奇想	suddenly have a thought (idiom); suddenly be inspired to do something
突破	to break through; to make a breakthrough; to surmount (an obstacle)
突破口	breach; gap; breakthrough point
突破性	groundbreaking
突破瓶頸	to make a breakthrough
突破點	point of penetration (military); breakthrough
突突	(onom.) beating of the heart; pitapat; pulsation of a machine
突襲	to raid; to storm; surprise attack
突觸	synapse
突觸後	postsynaptic
突變	sudden change; mutation
突變株	mutant; mutant strain (of virus)
突變理論	(math.) catastrophe theory
突起	to appear suddenly; projection; bit sticking out
突起部	bit sticking out; projection
突顯	conspicuous; to make sth stand out; make sth prominent
突飛猛進	to advance by leaps and bounds
窄	narrow; narrow-minded; badly off
窄小	narrow and small
窄巷	narrow alley; narrow street
窄縫	narrow gap; slit
窅	sunken eyes; deep and hollow; remote and obscure
窅然	far and deep; remote and obscure
窆	to put a coffin in the grave
窈	(literary) deep; profound; dim (variant of 杳[yao3])
窈窈	obscure; dusky; far and deep
窈窕	(literary) (of a woman) graceful and refined; comely; (esp.) slender; slim
窊	lowland swamp
窋	in a hole
窌	cellar
窒	to obstruct; to stop up
窒息	to choke; to stifle; to suffocate
窒息性毒劑	choking agent
窒礙	(literary) to be obstructed
窔	dark; deep; southeast corner of room
窕	quiet and secluded; gentle, graceful, and elegant
窕邃	abstruse; deep and profound
窖	cellar; to store in a cellar
窖藏	to store in a cellar
窗	window
窗口	window
窗口期	window (interval of time); (epidemiology) window period
窗子	window
窗帷	curtain
窗幔	curtain
窗戶	window
窗戶櫺	window lattice
窗扇	window; the opening panel of a window
窗明几淨	lit. clear window and clean table (idiom); fig. bright and clean
窗框	window frame
窗櫺	window lattice
窗櫺子	window lattice
窗玻璃	window pane
窗簾	window curtains
窗臺	windowsill; window ledge
窗花	paper cutting
窗鉤	window hook; window latch
窗飾	window decoration
窗體	form (used in programming languages such as Visual Basic and Delphi to create a GUI window)
窘	distressed; embarrassed
窘匱	destitute; impoverished
窘境	awkward situation; predicament
窘況	predicament
窘迫	poverty-stricken; very poor; hard-pressed
窞	pit; cave
窟	cave; hole
窟窿	hole; pocket; cavity
窟窿眼	small hole
窟臀	buttocks (dialect)
窠	nest
窠臼	stereotypical pattern; rut
窣	used in 窸窣[xi1 su1]; Taiwan pr. [su4]
窨	to scent tea with flowers
窨井	manhole; inspection chamber
窨井蓋	manhole cover
窩	nest; pit or hollow on the human body; lair
窩主	person who harbors criminals; receiver (of stolen goods)
窩咑	otak, a Malay food
窩囊	to feel vexed; annoyed; good-for-nothing
窩囊廢	(coll.) spineless coward; wimp; a good-for-nothing
窩囊氣	pent-up frustration; petty annoyances
窩囊費	(slang) hard-earned wages (pun on 窩囊廢|窝囊废[wo1 nang5 fei4])
窩夫	waffle (loanword)
窩子	lair; den; stronghold
窩巢	nest
窩工	(of workers) to have no work to do
窩心	aggrieved; dejected
窩料	groundbait
窩窩頭	a kind of a bread
窩脖兒	to suffer a snub; to meet with a rebuff
窩膿包	useless weakling
窩藏	to harbor; to shelter
窩裡橫	(coll.) meek and civil in public, but a tyrant at home
窩裡鬥	internal strife (family, group, etc)
窩闊臺	Ögedei Khan (1186-1242), a son of Genghis Khan
窩闊臺汗	Ögedei Khan (1186-1242), a son of Genghis Khan
窩點	lair; den (of illegal activities)
窪	depression; low-lying area; low-lying; sunken
窪地	low-lying ground; depression
窬	hole in a wall
窮	poor; destitute; to use up
窮二代	those who did not benefit from the Chinese economic reforms of the 1980s
窮人	poor people; the poor
窮光蛋	poor wretch; pauper; destitute man
窮兵黷武	to engage in wars of aggression at will (idiom); militaristic
窮凶極惡	fiendish; black-hearted
窮則思變	(idiom) when you hit bottom, you have to come up with a new approach
窮匱	to be short of sth; to be wanting in sth
窮困	destitute; wretched poverty
窮困潦倒	(idiom) to live in poverty and despair; down and out; destitute and without hope
窮國	poor country
窮在鬧市無人問，富在深山有遠親	the poor are ignored in the busiest city; the rich will find relatives in the deepest mountain
窮奢極侈	extravagant in the extreme (idiom)
窮奢極欲	to indulge in a life of luxury (idiom); extreme extravagance
窮家富路	(idiom) at home be frugal, but when traveling be prepared to spend
窮家薄業	lit. poor and with few means of subsistance (idiom); fig. destitute
窮寇	cornered enemy
窮山惡水	lit. barren hills and wild rivers (idiom)
窮忙族	the working poor
窮思苦想	to think hard (idiom); to give sth much thought
窮愁	destitute; troubled; penniless and full of care
窮愁潦倒	impoverished and dejected; wretched and penniless
窮抖	to shake uncontrollably; to jiggle (one's leg etc)
窮於應付	to struggle to cope (with a situation); to be at one's wits' end
窮棒子	poor but spirited person; (old) (derog.) peasant
窮極	extremely; utterly
窮當益堅	poor but ambitious (idiom); hard-pressed but determined
窮盡	to use up; to exhaust; to probe to the bottom
窮竭	to exhaust; to use up
窮竭法	Archimedes' method of exhaustion (an early form of integral calculus)
窮苦	impoverished; destitute
窮蹙	hard-up; in dire straits; desperate
窮追	to pursue relentlessly
窮追不捨	to pursue relentlessly
窮途末路	lit. the path exhausted, the end of the road (idiom); an impasse
窮遊	to travel on a small budget
窮鄉僻壤	a remote and desolate place
窮酸	(of a scholar) impoverished, shabby and pedantic; impoverished pedant
窮酸相	wretched look; shabby looks
窮養	to raise (a child) frugally
窮餓	exhausted and hungry
窮鬼	(vulgar) impoverished person; the poor
窮鼠嚙狸	a desperate rat will bite the fox (idiom); the smallest worm will turn being trodden on
窯	kiln; oven; coal pit
窯姐	(dialect) prostitute
窯子	(old) low-grade brothel
窯洞	yaodong (a kind of cave dwelling in the Loess Plateau in northwest China)
窰場	(Yuan dynasty) porcelain kilns (under imperial administration)
窳	bad; useless; weak
窳敗	to ruin; corrupt
窴	fill in
窵	(literary) distant; deep; profound
窶	poor; rustic
窸	used in 窸窣[xi1 su1]
窸窣	(onom.) a rustling noise
窺	to peep; to pry into
窺伺	to spy upon; to lie in wait for (an opportunity)
窺探	to pry into or spy on; to snoop; to peep
窺望	to peep; to spy on
窺知	to find out about; to discover
窺見	to catch a glimpse of
窺視	to peep at; to spy on; to peek
窺豹	lit. to see one spot on a leopard; fig. a restricted view
窺豹一斑	lit. see one spot on a leopard (idiom); fig. a restricted view
窾	crack; hollow; cavity
窿	cavity; hole
竁	dig a hole
竄	to flee; to scuttle; to exile or banish
竄升	to rise rapidly; to shoot up
竄擾	to invade and harass
竄改	to alter; to modify; to change
竄犯	to raid; an intrusion (of the enemy, or bandit groups)
竄稀	(coll.) to have diarrhea
竄紅	to become suddenly popular; suddenly all the rage
竄訪	(derog.) (of a prominent figure) to visit (another country) (used when one disapproves of the visit for political reasons)
竄踞	to flee in disorder and encamp somewhere
竄逃	to flee in disorder; to scurry off
竅	hole; opening; orifice (of the human body)
竅門	a trick; an ingenious method; know-how
竅門兒	erhua form of 竅門|窍门[qiao4 men2]
竇	(literary) hole; aperture; (anatomy) cavity; sinus
竇娥冤	The Injustice to Dou E (popular drama by 關漢卿|关汉卿[Guan1 Han4 qing1])
竇性心律	(medicine) sinus rhythm
竇房結	(anatomy) sinoatrial node; sinuatrial node
竇窖	cellar; crypt
竇道	sinus (anatomy); subterranean passage
竊	to steal; secretly; (humble) I
竊取	to steal (usu. private information, intellectual property etc)
竊喜	to be secretly delighted
竊國者侯，竊鉤者誅	steal the whole country and they make you a prince, steal a hook and they hang you (idiom, from Daoist classic Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3])
竊嫌	suspected thief (Tw)
竊密	to steal secret information
竊據	to usurp; to claim unjustly; to expropriate
竊權	to usurp authority; to hold power improperly
竊盜	theft; to steal
竊竊	privately; secretly; unobtrusively
竊竊私語	(idiom) to whisper; to speak in whispers
竊竊私議	(idiom) to discuss sth quietly in private
竊笑	to snigger; to titter
竊聲	in a whisper; in stealthy tones
竊聽	to eavesdrop; to wiretap
竊聽器	tapping device; bug
竊蛋龍	oviraptorosaurus (egg-stealing dinosaur)
竊賊	thief
竊鉤者誅，竊國者侯	steal a hook and they hang you, steal the whole country and they make you a prince (idiom, from Daoist classic Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3])
立	to stand; to set up; to establish
立下	to set up; to establish
立交	abbr. for 立體交叉|立体交叉[li4 ti3 jiao1 cha1] overpass
立交橋	overpass; flyover
立傳	to record sb's achievements in writing
立像	standing image (of a Buddha or saint)
立克次體	Rickettsia (genus of intracellular parasitic bacteria)
立冬	Lidong or Start of Winter, 19th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 7th-21st November
立刀旁	name of the lateral "knife" radical 刂[dao1] in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 18), occurring in 到[dao4], 利[li4], 別|别[bie2] etc
立刻	immediately; at once; right away
立功	to render meritorious service (one the three imperishables 三不朽[san1 bu4 xiu3])
立功贖罪	to redeem oneself; to atone
立即	immediately
立可白	correction fluid (loanword from "Liquid Paper") (Tw)
立國	to found a country
立地成佛	to become a Buddha on the spot (idiom); instant rehabilitation
立場	position; standpoint
立夏	Lixia or Start of Summer, 7th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 5th-20th May
立委	(Tw) legislator (abbr. for 立法委員|立法委员[li4 fa3 wei3 yuan2])
立委選舉	legislative elections
立威	to establish one's authority
立定	to stop; to halt; halt!
立定跳遠	standing long jump
立山區	Lishan, a district of Anshan City 鞍山市[An1 shan1 Shi4], Liaoning
立式	(of an object or device) designed to stand vertically; upright
立德	to distinguish oneself through virtue (one the three imperishables 三不朽[san1 bu4 xiu3])
立志	to be determined; to be resolved
立意	to conceptualize; to come up with the central idea
立憲	to set up a constitution
立方	cube (math.); abbr. for 立方體|立方体[li4 fang1 ti3]
立方公尺	(Tw) cubic meter (m³)
立方根	(math.) cube root
立方米	cubic meter (m³)
立方釐米	cubic centimeter
立方體	cube; cubic
立春	Lichun or Beginning of Spring, 1st of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气[er4 shi2 si4 jie2 qi5] 4th-18th February
立時	right away; quickly; immediately
立案	to register (to an official organism)
立案偵查	to file for investigation; to prosecute (a case)
立正	to stand straight; attention! (order to troops)
立氏立克次體	Rickettsia rickettsii
立法	to enact laws; to legislate
立法委員	member of the Legislative Yuan (Tw)
立法委員會	legislative committee
立法會	legislative council; LegCo (Hong Kong)
立法機關	legislature
立法院	Legislative Yuan, the unicameral legislature of the Republic of China
立百病毒	Nipah virus
立直	(Japanese mahjong) riichi (declaration that one's closed hand is one tile from completion)
立秋	Liqiu or Start of Autumn, 13th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 7th-22nd August
立竿見影	(lit.) set up a pole and immediately see its shadow (idiom)
立筊	(folk religion) inconclusive divination result from casting moon blocks 筊杯[jiao3 bei1] (at least one block lands on its edge); result interpreted as unclear or exceptional
立約	to make a contract
立絨	velvet
立臥撐跳	burpee
立蛋	egg balancing (activity popular in China at Lichun 立春[Li4 chun1] etc)
立言	to distinguish oneself through one's writing (one the three imperishables 三不朽[san1 bu4 xiu3])
立論	to set forth one's view; to present one's argument
立足	to stand; to have a footing; to be established
立足點	foothold
立身	to stand upright (physically)
立身處世	(idiom) the way one conducts oneself in society
立軍功	to render meritorious military service
立軸	vertical scroll (painting or calligraphy)
立院	(Tw) Legislative Yuan (abbr. for 立法院[Li4 fa3 yuan4])
立陶宛	Lithuania
立陶宛人	Lithuanian (person)
立面圖	elevation (architectural drawing)
立項	to launch a project
立頓	Lipton (name)
立馬	at once; immediately; promptly
立體	three-dimensional; solid; stereoscopic
立體交叉	three-dimensional road junction (i.e. involving flyover bridges or underpass tunnels)
立體圖	three-dimensional figure; hologram; stereogram
立體幾何	solid geometry
立體攝像機	stereoscopic camera; 3D camera
立體書	pop-up book
立體派	Cubism
立體照片	three-dimensional photo
立體異構	stereoisomerism (chemistry)
立體異構體	stereoisomer (chemistry)
立體聲	stereophonic sound
立體角	solid angle
立體電影院	stereoscopic cinema; 3D cinema
立魚	tilapia
竑	large; to estimate
站	station; to stand; to halt
站不住腳	ill-founded; groundless
站住	to come to a stop; to halt; to keep one's footing; to stay upright
站前區	Zhanqian, a district of Yingkou City 營口市|营口市[Ying2 kou3 Shi4], Liaoning
站員	(train or bus) station attendant
站地	stop (on a bus or train route)
站姿	stance
站崗	to stand guard; to serve on sentry duty
站牌	bus stop sign; train station sign
站穩	to stand firm
站穩腳步	to gain a firm foothold; (fig.) to get oneself established
站穩腳跟	to stand firmly; to gain a foothold; to establish oneself
站立	to stand; standing; on one's feet
站臺	platform (at a railway station)
站著說話不腰疼	(saying) it's all very well to talk, but getting things done is another matter; (fig.) to be an armchair expert; to blabber on
站街	(of a prostitute) to walk the streets to solicit customers
站街女	streetwalker
站起	to get up on hind legs (esp. of horse); to stand; to spring up
站起來	to stand up
站軍姿	to stand at attention (military)
站長	person in charge of a train station 車站|车站[che1 zhan4] (stationmaster), website 網站|网站[wang3 zhan4] (webmaster), volunteer center 志工站[zhi4 gong1 zhan4] (center manager), etc
站隊	to line up; to stand in line
站點	a place set up to serve a specific function (train station, bus stop, toll plaza, bike rental station, meteorological station etc)
竚	to stand for a long time (variant of 佇|伫[zhu4])
竟	unexpectedly; actually; to go so far as to
竟敢	to have the impertinence; to have the cheek to
竟日	(literary) all day long
竟然	unexpectedly; to one's surprise; in spite of everything
竟陵	Jingling, former name of Tianmen 天門|天门, Hubei
章	chapter; section; clause
章丘區	Zhangqiu, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
章則	rule
章回小說	novel in chapters, main format for long novels from the Ming onwards, with each chapter headed by a summary couplet
章士釗	Zhang Shizhao (1881-1973), revolutionary journalist in Shanghai, then established writer
章太炎	Zhang Taiyan (1869-1936), scholar, journalist, revolutionary and leading intellectual around the time of the Xinhai revolution
章子	seal; stamp
章子怡	Zhang Ziyi (1979-), PRC actress
章炳麟	Zhang Taiyan 章太炎 (1869-1936), scholar, journalist, revolutionary and leading intellectual around the time of the Xinhai revolution
章甫薦履	court crown beneath straw shoe (idiom); everything turned upside down
章程	rules; regulations; constitution
章節	chapter; section
章臺	street name in ancient Chang'an synonymous with brothel area
章貢區	Zhanggong, a district of Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
章魚	octopus
章魚小丸子	takoyaki (octopus dumpling), a Japanese snack food
章魚燒	takoyaki (octopus dumpling), a Japanese snack food
竡	hectoliter (old)
竣	complete; finish
竣工	to complete a project
童	surname Tong
童便	urine of boys under 12, used as medicine (TCM)
童兒	boy
童叟無欺	cheating neither old nor young (idiom); treating youngsters and old folk equally scrupulously
童女	virgin female
童婚	child marriage
童子	(literary) boy
童子尿	urine of boys under 12, used as medicine (TCM)
童子軍	child soldiers; juvenile militia
童山濯濯	treeless hill; (fig.) bald head
童工	child labor
童年	childhood
童床	crib; children's bed
童心	childish heart; childish innocence
童心未泯	(idiom) still a child at heart; to retain a playful spirit
童星	child star
童模	child model
童玩	(Tw) traditional handcrafted toy (e.g. spinning top 陀螺[tuo2 luo2], tangram 七巧板[qi1 qiao3 ban3] etc)
童生	candidate who has not yet passed the county level imperial exam
童男	virgin male
童真	childishness; naivete
童稚	child; childish
童花頭	short bobbed hairstyle
童蒙	young and ignorant; ignorant and uneducated
童裝	children's clothing
童言無忌	children's words carry no harm (idiom)
童話	children's fairy tales
童話故事	fairy tale
童謠	nursery rhyme
童貞	virginity; chastity
童趣	qualities that delight children (e.g. bold colors in a picture, anthropomorphized characters in a TV show, the physical challenge of playground equipment)
童身	undefiled body; virginity; virgin
童軍	Scout (youth organization)
童養媳	child bride; girl adopted into a family as future daughter-in-law
童養媳婦	child bride; girl adopted into a family as future daughter-in-law
竦	respectful; horrified; to raise (one's shoulders)
竭	to exhaust
竭力	to do one's utmost
竭心	to do one's utmost
竭澤而漁	lit. to drain the pond to get at the fish (idiom)
竭盡	to use up; to exhaust
竭盡全力	(idiom) to spare no effort; to do one's utmost
竭誠	wholeheartedly
端	(bound form) tip; end; extremity; (bound form) aspect; facet
端上	to serve (food, tea etc)
端倪	boundary; clue; indication
端到端	end-to-end
端到端加密	end-to-end encryption
端午節	Dragon Boat Festival (5th day of the 5th lunar month)
端口	interface; port
端坐	to sit upright
端子	terminal (electronics)
端尿	to support a child (or invalid etc) while he or she urinates
端屎	to support a child (or invalid etc) while he or she defecates
端州區	Duanzhou, a district of Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
端方	upright; honest; proper
端木	two-character surname Duanmu
端木賜	Duanmu Ci (520 BC-446 BC), disciple of Confucius, also known as Zi Gong 子貢|子贡[Zi3 Gong4]
端架子	to put on airs
端正	upright; regular; proper
端然	upright; finally; unexpectedly
端的	really; after all; details
端看	to look at sth from a particular angle; to depend on (some attribute)
端硯	high-quality ink stonemade in Duanxi and Guangdong
端站	end station
端粒	telomere, a protective DNA cap on a chromosome
端粒酶	telomerase
端系統	end system
端緒	start and development; thread (of a story); general outline
端線	end line; baseline (sports)
端莊	dignified; composed
端菜	to serve food
端詳	to look over carefully; to scrutinize
端賴	to depend ultimately on (Tw); absolutely reliant on
端起碗吃肉，放下筷子罵娘	lit. to eat meat from one's bowl, then put down one's chopsticks and scold one's mother (idiom)
端面	end face; end surface of a cylindrical object
端飯	to serve (food)
端點	end point (may refer to either end of sth with a start and an end)
競	to compete; to contend; to struggle
競價	price competition; bid (in an auction); to compete on price
競品	competing product; rival product
競技	competition of skill (e.g. sports); athletics tournament
競技動物	animals used in blood sports
競技場	arena
競技性	competitive
競拍	to bid (at an auction); auction
競業條款	non-compete clause (law)
競渡	rowing competition; boat race
競爭	to compete; competition
競爭力	competitive strength; competitiveness
競爭對手	rival; competitor
競爭性	competitive
競爭模式	competition model
競爭產品	competing product; competitor's product
競爭者	competitor
競猜	to try to predict the outcome of an event (for betting on sports results or for fun etc)
競相	competitive; eagerly; to vie
競秀	to compete to be the most beautiful or impressive
競秀區	Jingxiu, a district of Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
競租	rent-seeking (economics)
競答	to compete to answer questions (in class)
競艷	vying to be the most glamorous; each more gorgeous than the other
競購	to bid competitively; to compete to buy (at auction)
競賽	to compete; to race; contest; competition; match; race
競賽者	player
競走	walking race (athletics event)
競逐	competition; to compete; to pursue
競速	(sports) to race; racing
競速滑冰	speed skating (Tw)
競選	to take part in an election; to run for office
競選副手	election assistant; running mate
競選搭檔	election partner; running mate
競選活動	(election) campaign
竹	(bound form) bamboo; Kangxi radical 118
竹內	Takeuchi (Japanese surname)
竹刀	shinai (bamboo sword for kendō)
竹北	Zhubei, a city in Hsinchu County 新竹縣|新竹县[Xin1 zhu2 Xian4], northwest Taiwan
竹北市	Zhubei, a city in Hsinchu County 新竹縣|新竹县[Xin1 zhu2 Xian4], northwest Taiwan
竹啄木鳥	(bird species of China) pale-headed woodpecker (Gecinulus grantia)
竹器	utensil made of bamboo
竹園	Chuk Yuen (place in Hong Kong)
竹子	bamboo
竹山縣	Zhushan, a county in Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
竹島	Takeshima (Korean Dokdo 獨島|独岛[Du2 dao3]), disputed islands in Sea of Japan
竹布	light cotton fabric
竹帛	bamboo and silk writing materials (before paper)
竹排	bamboo raft
竹書紀年	Bamboo Annals, early chronicle of Chinese ancient history, written c. 300 BC
竹木	bamboo and wood
竹板	bamboo clapper boards used in folk theater
竹林	bamboo forest
竹溪縣	Zhuxi, a county in Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
竹竿	bamboo pole
竹笙	bamboo fungus
竹筍	bamboo shoot
竹筒	bamboo tube; bamboo pipe
竹筒倒豆子	like beans pouring out of a bamboo tube (metaphor for blurting everything out at once)
竹箍兒	bamboo hoop; bamboo band
竹管	bamboo pipe
竹節	bamboo joint
竹節草	Mackie's pest; lovegrass (Chrysopogon aciculatus)
竹節蟲	walking stick; stick insect
竹篁	(literary) bamboo forest
竹篙	bamboo pole (used to punt a boat)
竹篦	bamboo comb
竹篾	bamboo strip
竹簡	bamboo slips (used for writing on in ancient times)
竹籃	wicker basket
竹籃打水	using a wicker basket to draw water (idiom); wasted effort
竹籃打水，一場空	using a wicker basket to draw water (idiom); wasted effort
竹籤	bamboo skewer; bamboo slip used in divination or gambling
竹籬笆	fence
竹絲雞	black-boned chicken; silky fowl; silkie
竹編	wickerwork
竹芋	Indian arrowroot (Maranta arundinacea)
竹茹	bamboo shavings (Bambusa tuldoides) used in Chinese medicine
竹葉青	Trimeresurus stejnegeri (poisonous snake)
竹葉青蛇	Trimeresurus stejnegeri (poisonous snake)
竹蓀	bamboo fungus; veiled lady mushroom (Phallus indusiatus)
竹蓆	bamboo mat
竹製	made of bamboo
竹輿	a bamboo carriage; a palanquin
竹青	bamboo bark; bamboo green (color)
竹鞭	bamboo rhizome; bamboo whip
竹馬	bamboo stick used as a toy horse
竹馬之交	childhood friend (idiom)
竹鼠	bamboo rat
竺	surname Zhu
竺乾	Buddha (archaic); Dharma (the teachings of the Buddha)
竺可楨	Zhu Kezhen (1890-1974), Chinese metereologist and geologist
竺學	Buddhist doctrine (archaic); Buddhist studies
竺教	Buddhism (archaic)
竺書	Buddhist texts (archaic); scripture
竺法	Dharma (the teachings of the Buddha, archaic); Buddhist doctrine
竽	free reed wind instrument similar to the sheng 笙[sheng1], used in ancient China
竿	(bound form) pole; rod
竿子	bamboo pole
竿頭	bamboo pole's uppermost tip; (fig.) acme
笀	arista (of grain)
笄	15 years old; hairpin for bun
笄冠	to have just attained maturity (traditional)
笄年	beginning of maturity (of a girl)
笄蛭	a kind of earthworm
笆	an article made of bamboo strips; fence
笆斗	round-bottomed wicker basket
笆籬子	(dialect) prison
笈	trunks (for books)
笉	smiling countenance; bamboo rope
笊	loosely woven bamboo ladle
笊籬	strainer (made of bamboo, wicker, or wire)
笎	bamboo with black patches
笏	(old) ceremonial tablet (held by officials at an audience)
笐	bamboos placed across wooden frames on which grain may be stored in damp climates
笑	to laugh; to smile; to laugh at
笑不可仰	to double up with laughter (idiom)
笑不可抑	to laugh irrepressibly
笑劇	comedy; farce
笑口彌勒	laughing Maitreya
笑吟吟	smiling; with a smile
笑哈哈	to laugh heartily
笑嘻嘻	grinning; smiling
笑場	(of an actor) to break character by laughing; to corpse
笑容	smile; smiling expression
笑容可掬	smiling wholeheartedly (idiom); beaming from ear to ear
笑意	smiling expression
笑掉大牙	to laugh one's head off; ridiculous; jaw-dropping
笑料	comedic material; (in reference to a person) laughingstock
笑料百出	entertaining; hilarious
笑星	popular comedian; comic star
笑林	Jokes (title of an ancient collection of jokes, often used in the title of modern collections of jokes)
笑柄	a matter for ridicule; an object of ridicule; laughingstock
笑氣	laughing gas (nitrous oxide)
笑盈盈	smilingly; to be all smiles
笑眯眯	beaming; all smiles
笑破肚皮	to split one's sides laughing
笑窩	dimple (on the cheek when smiling)
笑筊	(folk religion) inconclusive divination result from casting moon blocks 筊杯[jiao3 bei1] (both blocks flat side up); ambiguous or noncommittal response from a deity
笑紋	laugh lines (on the face)
笑納	to kindly accept (an offering)
笑罵	to deride; to mock; (jocular) to heckle good-naturedly; to razz
笑而不語	to smile but say nothing
笑聲	laughter
笑臉	smiling face; smiley :) ☺
笑臉相迎	to welcome sb with a smiling face (idiom)
笑裡藏刀	lit. a dagger hidden in smiles (idiom); friendly manners belying hypocritical intentions
笑話	joke; jest; to laugh at; to mock; ridiculous; absurd
笑話兒	erhua form of 笑話|笑话[xiao4 hua5]
笑語	talking and laughing; cheerful talk
笑談	object of ridicule; laughingstock; to laugh over sth
笑貌	smiling face
笑貧不笑娼	the notion in society that it's better to get ahead in the world by abandoning one's scruples than to suffer poverty
笑逐顏開	smile spread across the face (idiom); beaming with pleasure
笑面虎	man with a big smile and evil intentions
笑靨	dimple; smiling face
笑顏	smiling face
笑鷗	(bird species of China) laughing gull (Leucophaeus atricilla)
笑點	funny bits; humorous parts; jokes
笑點低	amused by even the weakest joke; ready to laugh at the smallest thing
笓	to comb; fine-toothed comb; trap for prawns
笙	sheng, a free reed wind instrument with vertical bamboo pipes
笙歌	music and song (formal writing)
笙管	pipes of a panpipe
笙簧	reeds of a panpipe
笙簫	reed-pipe wind instrument and vertical bamboo flute
笛	flute
笛卡兒	René Descartes (1596–1650), French philosopher, mathematician and scientist
笛卡兒座標系	(math.) Cartesian coordinate system
笛卡爾	René Descartes (1596-1650) French philosopher
笛子	bamboo flute
笛沙格	Girard Desargues (1591–1661), French geometer
笛膜	membrane which covers a hole in a flute and produces a buzzing tone
笞	to whip with bamboo strips
笞刑	whipping with bamboo strips (as corporal punishment)
笞掠	to flog
笞撻	to flog; to whip
笞擊	to cudgel
笞杖	a cudgel
笞棰	to beat with a bamboo whip
笞罵	to whip and revile
笞背	to flog or whip the back
笞臀	to whip the buttocks
笞責	to flog with a bamboo stick
笞辱	to whip and insult
笠	bamboo rain hat
笤	broom
笤帚	whisk broom; small broom
笥	square bamboo container for food or clothing
符	mark; sign; talisman
符串	string (as in "character string")
符印	sigil; talismanic mark or symbol; (ritual) seal
符合	in accordance with; to agree with; to conform to; to meet (a requirement)
符咒	charm; amulet (religious object conferring blessing)
符拉迪沃斯托克	Vladivostok (Russian port city, Chinese name: 海參崴|海参崴[Hai3 shen1 wai3])
符文	rune
符板	a charm to protect against evil spirits
符牌	a talisman or lucky charm
符籙	(Taoism) talisman in the form of a painting of symbols thought to have magical powers
符號	symbol; mark; sign
符號學	semiotics; semiology
符記	token
符記環	token ring (computing)
符類福音	synoptic gospels (i.e. Matthew, Mark and Luke, with similar accounts and chronology)
符騰堡	Württemberg, region of southwest Germany, former state around Stuttgart 斯圖加特|斯图加特[Si1 tu2 jia1 te4]
笨	stupid; foolish; silly
笨人	fool; stupid person
笨伯	fool; dolt; clumsy oaf
笨到家了	extremely stupid
笨嘴拙舌	clumsy in speech; poor speaker
笨手笨腳	clumsy; all thumbs
笨拙	clumsy; awkward; stupid
笨瓜	fool; blockhead
笨蛋	(mild insult) fool; idiot; (playful) silly person
笨貨	idiot
笨重	heavy; cumbersome; unwieldy; laborious; arduous
笨雞	free-range chicken
笨頭笨腦	(idiom) stupid; muddle-headed
笨鳥先飛	lit. the clumsy bird flies early (idiom); fig. to work hard to compensate for one's limited abilities
笪	rough bamboo mat
笫	bamboo mat; bed mat
第	(prefix indicating ordinal number, as in 第六[di4 liu4] "sixth")
第一	first; most important; primary; foremost
第一世界	First World
第一人稱射擊	first-person shooter (video game genre)
第一作者	first author (of an academic paper)
第一國際	First international, organized by Karl Marx in Geneva in 1866
第一型糖尿病	Type 1 diabetes
第一基本形式	(math.) first fundamental form
第一夫人	First Lady (wife of the head of state)
第一季度	first quarter (of financial year)
第一島鏈	(geopolitics) First Island Chain, strategic arc of islands including Japan, Taiwan and the Philippines
第一手	first-hand
第一把手	the person in charge; the head of the leadership group
第一時間	in the first moments (of sth happening); immediately (after an event)
第一桶金	the first pot of gold; the initial profits from an economic endeavour
第一次	the first time; for the first time
第一次世界大戰	World War One
第一步	step one; first step
第一流	first-class
第一炮	(fig.) opening shot
第一產業	primary sector of industry
第一眼	at first glance; at first sight
第一線	front line; forefront
第一聲	first tone in Mandarin; high, level tone
第一輪	first round (of match, or election)
第三世界	Third World
第三人稱	third person (grammar)
第三地	territory belonging to a third party (as a neutral location for peace negotiations or as a transit point for indirect travel or trade etc)
第三季度	third quarter (of financial year)
第三帝國	Third Reich, Nazi regime (1933-1945)
第三方	third party
第三狀態	suboptimal health status
第三產業	tertiary sector of industry
第三眼瞼	(zoology) nictitating membrane
第三紀	third period
第三者	third party; (in romance) the other woman or man
第三聲	third tone in Mandarin; falling-rising tone
第二	second; number two; next
第二世界	Second World (Cold War-era term referring to communist nations as a bloc)
第二個人	the second person; (fig.) someone else; third party
第二型糖尿病	Type 2 diabetes
第二天	next day; the morrow
第二季度	second quarter (of financial year)
第二島鏈	(geopolitics) Second Island Chain, strategic arc of islands stretching from Japan's Bonin Islands to Guam and Papua New Guinea
第二性	The Second Sex (book by Simone de Beauvoir)
第二春	(lit.) second spring; (fig.) falling in love for the second time
第二次	the second time; the second occurrence
第二次世界大戰	World War II
第二次漢字簡化方案	Second Chinese Character Simplification Scheme (second round of simplified Chinese characters, proposed in 1977 and retracted in 1986)
第二次鴉片戰爭	the Second Opium War (1856–1860)
第二產業	secondary industry
第二聲	second tone in Mandarin; rising tone
第二職業	second job
第二輪	second round (of match, or election)
第五	fifth
第五縱隊	fifth column (subversive group)
第六人	(basketball) sixth man
第六感	sixth sense (i.e. intuition, premonition, telepathy etc)
第六感覺	sixth sense; intuition
第勒尼安海	Tyrrhenian Sea between Sardinia and the Italian mainland
第四堵牆	the fourth wall (in theater, TV, film etc)
第四季	fourth quarter
第四季度	fourth quarter (of financial year)
第四權	the fourth estate; the press
第四紀	fourth period
第四聲	fourth tone in Mandarin; falling tone
第四臺	fourth channel; (in Taiwan) cable TV, FTV
第四面牆	the fourth wall (in theater, TV, film etc)
第戎	Dijon (France)
第比利斯	T'bilisi, capital of Georgia 格魯吉亞|格鲁吉亚[Ge2 lu3 ji2 ya4]
第納爾	dinar (currency) (loanword)
第蒙	(Tw) Des Moines, capital of Iowa
笭	bamboo screen
笮	board under tiles on roof; narrow
笯	(literary) birdcage; (used in place names)
笰	duster
笱	basket for trapping fish
笲	osier basket of brides
笳	whistle made of reed
笵	bamboo mold
笸	flat basket-tray
筀	bamboo (archaic)
筀竹	bamboo (archaic)
筃	a kind of bamboo
筅	bamboo brush for utensils
筅帚	(dialect) pot-scrubbing brush, made from bamboo strips
筆	writing brush; writing implement (pen, pencil etc) (CL:支[zhi1],枝[zhi1])
筆下	the wording and purport of what one writes
筆下生花	to write elegantly
筆仙	a form of automatic writing in which two or more participants hold a single pen over a sheet of paper and invite a spirit to write answers to their questions
筆供	written evidence, as opposed to oral evidence 口供[kou3 gong4]
筆刷	paintbrush; writing brush (esp. in graphics software)
筆力	vigor of strokes in calligraphy or drawing
筆友	pen pal
筆名	pen name; pseudonym
筆墨	pen and ink; words; writing
筆套	the cap of a pen, pencil or writing brush
筆尖	nib; pen point; the tip of a writing brush or pencil
筆帽	the cap of a pen, pencil, or writing brush
筆戰	written polemics
筆挺	(standing) very straight; straight as a ramrod; bolt upright
筆替	(poorly paid) ghostwriter or substitute calligrapher
筆會	PEN (association of writers)
筆架	pen rack; pen-holder
筆桿	the shaft of a pen or writing brush
筆桿子	pen; an effective writer
筆法	technique of writing, calligraphy or drawing
筆畫	strokes of a Chinese character
筆畫數	stroke count (number of brushstrokes of a Chinese character)
筆畫檢字表	stroke-count character index; table for looking up characters by number of strokes
筆直	perfectly straight; straight as a ramrod; bolt upright
筆硯	writing brush and ink stone
筆筒	pen container; brush pot
筆算	to do a sum in writing; written calculation
筆管麵	penne pasta
筆者	the author; the writer (usu. refers to oneself)
筆耕	to make a living by writing; to write (as an author)
筆芯	pencil lead; pen refill
筆觸	brush stroke in Chinese painting and calligraphy; brushwork
筆記	to take down (in writing); notes
筆記型電腦	notebook (computer)
筆記本	notebook (stationery) (CL:本[ben3])
筆記本計算機	laptop; notebook (computer)
筆記本電腦	laptop; notebook (computer)
筆試	written examination; paper test (for an applicant)
筆誤	a slip of a pen
筆調	(of writing) tone; style
筆談	to communicate by means of written notes (instead of speaking)
筆譯	written translation
筆資	(old) remuneration for writing, painting or calligraphy
筆走龍蛇	(lit.) the brush flows with the fluidity of a dragon or snake (idiom)
筆跡	handwriting
筆鋒	the tip of a writing brush; vigor of style in writing; stroke
筆錄	to put down in writing; to take down notes; transcript
筆電	notebook (computer)
筆順	stroke order (when writing Chinese character)
筆頭	ability to write; writing skill; written
筇	(in ancient texts) type of bamboo sometimes used as a staff
筈	arrow end
等	to wait for; to await; by the time; when; till
等一下	to wait a moment; later; in awhile
等一會	Wait a moment!; after a while
等一等	wait a moment
等不及	can't wait
等位	(physics) equipotential
等位基因	allele (one of two paired gene in diploid organism)
等候	to wait; to wait for
等值	of equal value
等價	equal; equal in value; equivalent
等價交換	equal-value exchange
等價關係	(math.) equivalence relation
等分	to divide into equal parts
等到	to wait until; by the time when (sth is ready etc)
等化器	equalizer (electronics, audio) (HK, Tw)
等同	to equate; equal to
等同語	(linguistics) an equivalent; a translation of a term into the target language
等周	isoperimetric
等周不等式	the isoperimetric inequality
等因奉此	officialese; official routine
等壓	constant pressure; equal pressure
等壓線	isobar (line of equal pressure)
等差	degree of disparity; equal difference
等差數列	(math.) arithmetic progression
等差級數	arithmetic series (such as 2+4+6+8+...)
等式	an equality; an equation
等待	to wait; to wait for
等待時間	waiting time; (computing) latency
等效	equivalent; equal in effect
等效百萬噸當量	equivalent megatonnage (EMT)
等於	to equal; to be tantamount to
等比	geometric (of mathematical sequences or progressions)
等比數列	geometric progression
等比級數	geometric series (such as 1+2+4+8+...)
等溫	of equal temperature; isothermic
等熵線	(physics) isentropic curve
等第	level; rank; grade
等等	et cetera; and so on ...; wait a minute!
等級	grade; rank; status
等級制度	hierarchy
等而下之	going from there to lower grades (idiom)
等腰三角形	isosceles triangle
等著瞧	wait and see (who is right)
等號	(math.) equals sign =
等變壓線	isallobar (line of equal pressure gradient)
等距	equidistant
等身	life-size; life-sized
等軸晶系	cubical system (crystallography)
等邊三角形	equilateral triangle
等閒	ordinary; common; unimportant
等閒之輩	(in the negative) (not) to be trifled with
等離子	(physics) plasma
等離子體	plasma (physics)
等額選舉	non-competitive election (i.e. with as many candidates as there are seats)
等高線	contour line
筊	bamboo rope
筊杯	(folk religion) moon blocks – a pair of crescent-shaped divination blocks thrown on the ground to seek a deity's response
筋	muscle; tendon; veins visible under the skin
筋斗	tumble; somersault
筋斗雲	Sun Wukong's magical cloud
筋疲力盡	body weary, strength exhausted (idiom); extremely tired; spent
筋節	lit. muscles and joints
筋絡	tendons and muscles
筋脈	veins
筋膜	(anatomy) fascia
筋膜槍	fascia gun; fascia massage gun
筋膜炎	(medicine) fasciitis
筋道	(of noodles etc) springy; chewy
筋骨	muscles and bones; physique; strength
筌	bamboo fish trap
筍	bamboo shoot
筍子	bamboo shoot
筍尖	bamboo shoot tip
筎	thin outside skin of bamboo
筏	raft (of logs)
筏子	raft
筐	basket
筐篋	rectangular box or chest
筐篋中物	a commonplace thing
筑	short name for Guiyang 貴陽|贵阳[Gui4 yang2]
筑波	Tsukuba (city in Japan)
筒	tube; cylinder
筒子	tube-shaped object; tube; bobbin
筒子米糕	rice tube pudding, a single-serve column of glutinous rice topped with a sauce and garnished (Taiwanese dish, originally prepared by stuffing rice into bamboo tubes and steaming them)
筒燈	fluorescent tube or light
筒閥	a sleeve valve
筒鼓	tom-tom drum (drum kit component)
答	bound form having the same meaning as the free word 答[da2], used in 答應|答应[da1 ying5], 答理[da1 li5] etc
答允	(literary) to agree; to consent
答卷	completed examination paper; answer sheet
答問	to answer a question; question and answer
答對	to answer correctly; (literary) to respond; to reply
答應	to answer; to respond
答拜	to return a visit
答數	numerical answer (to a question in math.)
答案	answer; solution
答理	(usu. used in the negative) to acknowledge (sb's greeting etc); to respond; to answer
答疑	to answer questions (as teacher or consultant); to clarify doubts
答白	to answer
答禮	to return a courtesy; return gift
答腔	to answer; to respond; to converse
答覆	to answer; to reply; Reply to: (in email header)
答訪	to return a visit
答詞	reply; thank-you speech
答話	to reply; to answer
答謝	to express one's thanks
答辯	to reply (to an accusation); to defend one's dissertation
答錄機	answering machine
答非所問	(idiom) to sidestep the question; to answer evasively
筕篖	woven bamboo mat
策	policy; plan; scheme
策劃	to plot; to scheme; to bring about
策劃人	sponsor; plotter; schemer
策勒縣	Qira, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
策動	to conspire; to plot (a rebellion, crime etc); to machinate
策勵	to encourage; to urge; to impel
策反	to instigate (rebellion etc)
策問	essay on policy in question and answer form used in imperial exams
策士	strategist; counsellor on military strategy
策展	to curate
策展人	curator
策應	to support by coordinated action
策源地	place of origin; source (of a war or a social movement)
策略	strategy; tactics; crafty; adroit
策試	imperial exam involving writing essay on policy 策論|策论[ce4 lun4]
策論	essay on current affairs submitted to the emperor as policy advice (old)
策謀	stratagem (political or military); trick
策進	(formal) to promote; to further
策馬	to urge on a horse using a whip or spurs
筘	(a measure of width of cloth)
筠	used in 筠連|筠连[Jun1 lian2] (the name of a place in Sichuan)
筠連縣	Junlian, a county in Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
筢	bamboo rake
筢子	bamboo rake
筤	young bamboo
筥	round bamboo basket
筦	surname Guan
筧	bamboo conduit; water pipe of bamboo
筭	to regard as; to figure
筮	divine by stalk
筰	cable
筱	dwarf bamboo; thin bamboo
筲	basket; bucket
筲箍	to hoop on a basket
筲箕	bamboo basket for rice-washing
筳	bamboo pole; spindle
筵	bamboo mat for sitting
筵上	feast
筵席	banquet; mat for sitting
筵席捐	tax on a banquet or feast
筵讌	feast; banquet
筷	chopstick
筷子	chopsticks
筷子腿	(coll.) skinny legs
筷子芥	Arabis, a genus of Brassica family including cress
筸	used in 鎮筸|镇筸[Zhen4 gan1]
箂	(bamboo)
箅	(bound form) bamboo grid for steaming food
箅子	bamboo grid for steaming food; grate; grating; grid
箊	bamboo with thin; wide leaves
箋	letter; note-paper
箋注	to annotate (ancient texts); commentaries
箍	hoop; to bind with hoops
箍嘴	to muzzle
箍子	finger ring (dialect)
箍帶	strap
箍桶	hooped barrel; to handmake a wooden barrel
箍桶匠	cooper; hooper
箍桶店	coopery
箍煲	(originally Cantonese) to patch things up with one's spouse or lover; to reconcile with one's partner
箍節兒	short length; small section or portion
箍緊	to fasten tightly with a hoop
箍麻	to become numb (from being bound too tightly)
箎	bamboo flute with 8 holes
箐	to draw a bamboo bow or crossbow
箑	fan
箔	plaited matting (of rushes, bamboo etc); silkworm basket; metal foil
箔籬	(dialect) partition or screen made of plaited bamboo (or rushes, grain stalks etc); a weir of similar construction used to trap fish
箕	winnow basket
箕子	Jizi, legendary sage from end of Shang dynasty (c. 1100 BC), said to have opposed the tyrant Zhou 紂|纣[Zhou4], then ruled ancient Korea in the Zhou 周[Zhou1] dynasty
算	to calculate; to figure out; to include; to count in
算不了	does not count for anything; of no account
算不得	not count as
算了	let it be; let it pass; forget about it
算你狠	you got me!; you win!; you are something!
算出	to figure out; to calculate
算力	computing power; hash rate (digital currency mining)
算卦	fortune telling
算命	fortune-telling; to tell fortune
算命先生	fortune-teller
算命家	fortune-teller
算命者	fortune-teller
算哪根蔥	who do (you) think (you) are?
算子	operator (math.)
算數	to count numbers; to keep to one's word
算是	considered to be; at last
算法	arithmetic; algorithm; method of calculation
算準	to calculate precisely; to identify; to discern; to tell
算盤	abacus; plan; scheme
算符	(math.) operator
算老幾	just who do (you) think (you) are? (or "just who does (she) think (she) is?" etc)
算術	arithmetic
算術平均	arithmetic mean (math.)
算術平均數	arithmetic mean
算術式	(math.) arithmetic expression
算術級數	arithmetic series (such as 2+4+6+8+...)
算計	to reckon; to calculate; to plan
算話	(of sb's words) to count; can be trusted
算賬	(accounting) to balance the books; to do the accounts
算起來	to calculate; to estimate; in total
箘	bamboo shoots
箙	quiver
箛	(bamboo); trumpet for chariots
箜	used in 箜篌[kong1 hou2]
箜篌	konghou (Chinese harp)
箜簧	old reed wind instrument
箝	pliers; pincers; to clamp
管	to take care (of); to control; to manage
管不著	to have no right or ability to interfere in sth
管中窺豹	lit. to see a leopard through a narrow tube (idiom); fig. to miss the big picture
管井	tube well
管他	no matter if; regardless of; don’t worry about (it, him etc)
管他三七二十一	who cares; no matter what; regardless of the consequences
管他呢	don’t worry about (it, him etc); doesn’t matter; whatever
管他的	don’t worry about (it, him etc); doesn’t matter; whatever
管仲	Guan Zhong (-645 BC), famous politician of Qi 齊國|齐国 of Spring and Autumn period
管住	to take control of; to manage; to curb
管住嘴邁開腿	lit. shut your mouth, move your legs (motto for losing weight)
管保	to guarantee; assuredly
管制	to control; to restrict
管取	sure
管圓線蟲	"eel worm", a parasitic worm carrying meningitis
管城區	Guangcheng Hui District of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
管城回族區	Guancheng Hui District, a district of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
管夠	(coll.) as much as one wants; in plentiful supply
管套	pipe sleeve
管委會	administrative committee; management committee
管子	Guanzi or Guan Zhong 管仲 (-645 BC), famous politician of Qi 齊國|齐国 of Spring and Autumn period
管子工	plumber; pipe-fitter
管子鉗	pipe wrench; monkey wrench
管它	no matter if; regardless of; don’t worry about (it, him etc)
管家	(old) butler; steward; manager; administrator; housekeeper
管家婆	housewife (jocular); female housekeeper of a higher rank (old)
管工	plumber; pipe-worker
管座	to mount an electronic valve; to plug in a bulb
管弦樂	orchestral music
管弦樂團	orchestra
管弦樂隊	orchestra
管待	to wait on; to attend; to serve
管得著	to concern oneself with (a matter); to make (sth) one's business
管情	to guarantee
管手管腳	to control in every detail; excessive supervision
管扳手	pipe wrench
管控	to control
管教	to discipline; to teach; to guarantee
管教無方	unable to discipline a child; incapable of dealing with (unruly child)
管束	to exercise control over; restriction; control
管東管西	to micromanage; to be controlling
管樂器	wind instrument; woodwind
管治	governance; to govern
管燈	fluorescent light
管理	to supervise; to manage; to administer
管理人	supervisor; manager; administrator
管理信息庫	Management Information Base; MIB
管理員	manager; administrator
管理委員會	administrative committee; management committee
管理學	management studies
管理學院	school of management
管理層收購	management buyout (MBO)
管理站	management station
管理費	management fee
管用	efficacious; useful
管窺	to look at sth through a bamboo tube; to have a restricted view
管窺所及	in my humble opinion
管紗	(textiles) cop
管線	pipeline; general term for pipes, cables etc
管胞	tracheid (botany)
管見	my limited view (lit. view through a thin tube)
管見所及	in my humble opinion (idiom)
管路	piping (for water, oil, etc); conduit
管轄	to administer; to have jurisdiction (over)
管道	tubing; pipeline; (fig.) channel
管道運輸	pipeline transport
管鉗	pipe wrench
管閒事	to meddle; to be a "nosy Parker"
管風琴	organ; pipe organ
管飯	to provide meals free of charge
管龠	flute; pipe; key
箢	used in 箢箕[yuan1 ji1] and 箢篼[yuan1 dou1]; Taiwan pr. [wan3]
箢箕	(dialect) scoop-shaped woven bamboo basket
箢篼	(dialect) scoop-shaped woven bamboo basket
箬	(bamboo); skin of bamboo
箭	arrow
箭桿	arrow shaft
箭步	sudden big stride forward
箭毒木	antiaris, aka upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria)
箭毒蛙	poison dart frog
箭牌	Wrigley (chewing gum company)
箭矢	arrow
箭竹	bamboo (genus Fargesia)
箭豬	porcupine
箭鏃	arrowhead
箭靶	archery target; (fig.) target of criticism, pressure, attack or blame
箭頭	arrowhead; arrow symbol
箭頭鍵	arrow key (on keyboard)
箮	bamboo flower; flowering bamboo
箯	bamboo sedan chair
箱	box; trunk; chest
箱包	luggage and bags
箱型車	van (Tw); also written 廂型車|厢型车[xiang1 xing2 che1]
箱子	suitcase; chest; box
箱庭	(Japanese-style) sandbox (video gaming); sandplay (therapy)
箱根	Hakone, city on the east coast of Japan southwest of Tokyo
箱梁	box girder (construction)
箱篋	box; chest
箱鼓	cajón (musical instrument)
箴	to warn; to admonish
箴言	admonition; exhortation; dictum
箸	(literary) chopsticks
箾	to hit sb with a pole; (archaic) pole held by a dancer
節	joint; node; (bound form) section; segment
節上生枝	a new branch grows out of a knot (idiom); fig. side issues keep arising
節令	solar term; seasonal division (one of 24 periods in the traditional Chinese lunisolar calendar, governing agricultural timing and cultural festivals)
節候	season; time of year
節假日	public holiday
節儉	frugal; economical
節制	to control; to restrict; to moderate
節哀	to restrain one's grief (used in expressions of condolence, e.g. 請節哀|请节哀[qing3 jie2 ai1] and 節哀順變|节哀顺变[jie2 ai1 shun4 bian4])
節哀順變	(idiom) restrain one's grief and accept what has happened (expression of condolence)
節外生枝	(idiom) new problems arise unexpectedly
節奏	rhythm; tempo; musical pulse
節奏口技	beatboxing
節奏布魯斯	Rhythm and Blues R&B
節子	gnarl; knot
節度使	Tang and Song dynasty provincial governor, in Tang times having military and civil authority, but only civil authority in Song
節律	rhythm; pace
節慶	festival
節拍	beat (music); meter
節拍器	metronome
節操	integrity; moral principle
節支	to save on expenditure
節日	holiday; festival
節期	festival season
節本	abridged version
節氣	solar term
節氣門	throttle
節水	to save water
節油	to economize on gasoline; fuel-efficient
節流	to control flow; to choke; weir valve
節流踏板	throttle pedal; accelerator
節流閥	a throttle
節烈	(of a woman) indomitably chaste
節略	abbreviation
節略本	abridged version
節疤	gnarl; knot
節瘤	knot (in wood)
節目	(TV or radio) program; show
節省	saving; to save; to use sparingly
節禮日	Boxing Day, holiday on 26th December (the day after Christmas Day) in some countries
節節	step by step; little by little
節節敗退	to retreat again and again in defeat; to suffer defeat after defeat
節約	to economize; to conserve (resources); economy
節肢介體病毒	arbovirus
節肢動物	arthropod
節育	to practice birth control
節能	to conserve energy; to minimize energy consumption
節能燈	compact fluorescent lamp (CFL)
節衣縮食	to save on food and clothing (idiom); to live frugally
節足動物	arthropod, segmented animals with jointed limbs
節選	excerpt; selection (from a book); to select
節錄	to extract; to excerpt; excerpt
節間	between joints
節電	to save electricity; power saving
節食	to save food; to go on a diet
節餘	to save; savings
節骨眼	(dialect) critical juncture; crucial moment
節點	node
篁	(bamboo); bamboo grove
篃	a kind of bamboo
範	pattern; model; example
範例	example; model case
範兒	(coll.) style; manner
範圍	range; scope; limit
範式	paradigm
範數	norm (math.)
範本	model (example worthy of being imitated); template
範疇	category
範疇論	category theory (math.)
範縣	Fan County or Fanxian, a county in Puyang City 濮陽市|濮阳市[Pu2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
篆	seal (of office); seal script (a calligraphic style)
篆刻	to carve a seal; a seal
篆工	craftsman engaged in carving characters
篆書	seal script (Chinese calligraphic style)
篇	sheet; piece of writing
篇什	poem
篇幅	length (of a piece of writing); space occupied on a printed page
篇目	table of contents
篇章	chapter; section (of a written work); passage of writing; (fig.) chapter (in the history of sth)
篇韻	abbr. for Yupian 玉篇[Yu4 pian1] and Guangyun 廣韻|广韵[Guang3 yun4]
築	to build; to construct; to ram
築城	fortification
築室道謀	lit. ask passers-by how to build one's house (idiom); fig. to have no idea what to do
築巢	to nest; to build a nest
築牢	to fortify; to strengthen; to firmly establish (safeguards, foundations or other abstract things)
篋	chest; box; trunk
篋笥	bamboo box for holding books, clothes etc
篋篋	long and thin; slender
篋衍	bamboo box
篌	used in 箜篌[kong1 hou2]
篔	used in 篔簹|筼筜[yun2 dang1]
篔簹	species of tall bamboo
篔簹湖	Yundang or Yuandang Lake in Xiamen
篘	basket for straining; to strain
篙	pole for punting boats
篙子	pole for punting boats; pole for drying clothes in the sun
篚	round covered basket
篛	cuticle of bamboo plant
篜	bamboo
篝	bamboo frame for drying clothes; bamboo cage
篝火	bonfire
篝火狐鳴	to tell fox ghost stories around a bonfire and incite rebellion
篟	luxuriant growth of bamboo
篠	dwarf bamboo
篡	to seize; to usurp
篡位	to seize the throne
篡奪	to usurp; to seize
篡弒	to commit regicide
篡改	to tamper with; to falsify
篡政	to usurp political power
篡權	to usurp power
篡竊	to usurp; to seize
篡立	to become an unlawful ruler
篡賊	usurper
篡軍	to usurp the military
篡逆	to rebel; to revolt
篡黨	to usurp the leadership of the party
篢	bamboo hat
篤	(bound form) sincere; genuine; (bound form) (of an illness) serious
篤信	to sincerely believe
篤信好學	sincere belief and diligent study
篤厚	honest and generous; magnanimous
篤學	studious; diligent in study
篤守	to comply faithfully; sincerely abiding by
篤定	certain; confident (of some outcome); calm and unhurried
篤實	loyal; sincere; sound
篤專	with undivided attention
篤志	steadfast; with single-minded devotion
篤愛	to love deeply; devoted to sb
篤摯	sincere (in friendship); cordial
篤病	seriously ill; critical
篤行	to carry out (obligation) conscientiously; to behave sincerely
篥	bamboos good for poles; horn
篦	fine-toothed comb; to comb
篦子	double-edged fine-toothed comb; grate
篦頭	to comb one's hair
篧	creel for trapping fish
篨	crude bamboo mat
篩	(bound form) a sieve; to sieve; to sift; to filter
篩子	sieve
篩查	to screen (for disease etc)
篩檢	to screen (for disease etc)
篩法	the sieve method (for primes)
篩管	(botany) sieve tube
篩糠	to sift chaff; (fig.) to shake all over
篩選	to filter
篩除	to screen or filter out; to winnow (agriculture)
篩骨	ethmoid bone (cheek)
篪	bamboo flute with 7 or 8 holes
篰	sieve-like utensil
篳	wicker
篳路藍縷	the hardships of beginning an undertaking (idiom)
篳門閨竇	wicker door, hole window (idiom); fig. wretched hovel
篴	flute
篶	black bamboo
篷	sail
篷布	tarpaulin
篷蓋布	tarpaulin fabric
篷車	covered truck; caravan; van
篷頂	canopy; roof; ceiling
篹	ancient bamboo basket for food; bamboo container for hats
篼	bamboo, rattan or wicker basket
篾	the outer layer of a stalk of bamboo (or reed or sorghum); a thin bamboo strip
篾匠	craftsman who makes articles from bamboo strips
篾席	mat woven from bamboo strips
篾條	bamboo strip
簀	reed mat
簁	sieve; to sift, to strain
簃	small house connected to large one
簆	healds of a loom
簇	(bound form) to cluster; to pile up; cluster; pile
簇射	shower (radiation, particle, etc)
簇擁	to crowd around; to escort
簇新	brand-new; spanking new
簇莖石竹	boreal carnation or northern pink; Dianthus repens (botany)
簉	deputy; subordinate; concubine
簉室	concubine
簋	ancient bronze food vessel with a round mouth and two or four handles
簌	used in 簌簌[su4 su4]
簌簌	very slight sound; rustling (onom.); to stream down (of tears)
簌簌發抖	shivering; trembling (idiom)
簍	basket
簍子	basket
簏	box; basket
簕	used in 簕竹[le4 zhu2]
簕竹	spiny bamboo (Bambusa blumeana)
簜	(bamboo)
簝	bamboo receptacle used to hold meat for temple sacrifices in ancient times
簞	round basket for cooked rice
簞笥	bamboo box; vessels for holding food
簞食壺漿	to receive troops with food and drink (idiom)
簟	fine woven grass mat
簠	basket used in state worship
簡	simple; uncomplicated; letter
簡·愛	Jane Eyre, novel by Charlotte Brontë 夏洛特·勃良特[Xia4 luo4 te4 · Bo2 liang2 te4]
簡中	Simplified Chinese (abbr. for 簡體中文|简体中文[jian3 ti3 Zhong1 wen2])
簡介	summary; brief introduction
簡便	simple and convenient; handy
簡冊	booklet; brochure; (old) book (made of bamboo strips tied together)
簡則	general rule; simple principle
簡化	to simplify
簡化字	simplified Chinese character
簡史	a brief history
簡單	simple; not complicated
簡單化	simplification; to simplify
簡單地說	to put it simply; simply put
簡單明瞭	clear and simple; in simple terms
簡單網絡管理協議	Simple Network Management Protocol; SNMP
簡報	presentation; briefing; (oral or written) brief report
簡寫	to write characters in simplified form
簡帖	a letter
簡帖兒	a letter
簡慢	negligent (towards guests)
簡括	brief but comprehensive; compendious
簡拼	(computing) input method where the user types just the initial or first letter of each syllable, e.g. "shq" or "sq" for 事情[shi4 qing5]
簡明	simple and clear; concise
簡明扼要	brief and to the point (idiom); succinct
簡易	simple and easy; simplistic; simplicity
簡易棚	makeshift shelter; awning
簡易爆炸裝置	improvised explosive device (IED)
簡本	concise edition; abridged edition
簡樸	(of lifestyle, clothing, writing etc) simple; plain
簡歷	curriculum vitae (CV); résumé; biographical notes
簡氏防務週刊	Jane's defense weekly
簡潔	concise; succinct; pithy
簡牘	bamboo and wooden slips (used for writing on in ancient times)
簡略	simple; brief
簡直	simply; really
簡省	to simplify; to reduce to essentials; economical
簡短	brief (statement, summary etc); briefly; brevity
簡短介紹	brief introduction
簡稱	to be abbreviated to; abbreviation; short form
簡章	concise list of rules; brochure; pamphlet
簡筆畫	simple drawing; sketch
簡約	sketchy; concise; abbreviated
簡編	concise edition; abridged edition; compendium
簡練	terse; succinct
簡縮	abbreviation; short form
簡繁	simple versus traditional (Chinese characters)
簡繁轉換	conversion from simple to traditional Chinese characters
簡而言之	in a nutshell; to put it briefly
簡表	table (displaying data in rows and columns)
簡裝	paperback; plainly packaged; opposite: 精裝|精装[jing1 zhuang1]
簡要	concise; brief
簡要介紹	brief introduction
簡言之	in simple terms; to put things simply; briefly
簡訊	newsletter; the news in brief; (Tw) SMS message
簡諧	simple harmonic (motion, oscillation etc in mechanics)
簡諧振動	simple harmonic oscillation; sinusoidal oscillation
簡諧波	simple harmonic wave; sine wave
簡諧運動	simple harmonic motion (in mechanics); motion of a simple pendulum
簡譜	music notation in which the notes Do, Re, Mi, Fa, Sol, La and Si are represented by numerals 1 to 7
簡述	to outline; to summarize; to sketch
簡陋	simple and crude
簡陽市	Jianyang, a county-level city in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
簡體	simplified form of Chinese characters, as opposed to traditional form 繁體|繁体[fan2 ti3]
簡體字	simplified Chinese character, as opposed to traditional Chinese character 繁體字|繁体字[fan2 ti3 zi4]
簣	basket for carrying soil
簥	large pipe
簦	large umbrella for stalls; an ancient kind of bamboo or straw hat
簧	reed (of a music instrument); spring; coil
簧片	reed (music)
簧管	reed pipe
簧舌	the lip or vibrating end of a reed in a wind instrument
簧風琴	harmonium
簨	cross-beam for hanging bells
簪	hairpin
簫	xiao, a vertical bamboo flute
簬	(bamboo)
簰	bamboo raft
簷篷	(HK) canopy; awning
簸	to winnow; to toss up and down
簸揚	to winnow
簸穀	to winnow grain
簸箕	wicker or bamboo winnowing basket; dustpan
簸蕩	to be tossed around (like a boat on a rough sea)
簹	used in 篔簹|筼筜[yun2 dang1]
簻	big; hunger
簽	to sign one's name; to write brief comments on a document
簽入	(computing) to check in (i.e. to submit code to a central repository)
簽出	to sign out (of a physical location or attendance register)
簽到	to register; to sign in
簽名	to sign (one's name with a pen etc); to autograph; signature
簽呈	petition (submitted to a superior)
簽售	(of an author, musician etc) to sign (books, records etc) purchased by fans
簽售會	(publishing industry) book signing event; (music industry) fansign event
簽唱會	(of a singer) autograph session; record signing event
簽字	to sign (one's name); signature
簽字筆	felt-tip pen; roller ball pen; gel ink pen
簽字者	signatory
簽字費	signing bonus; sign-on bonus
簽定	to sign (a contract, treaty etc)
簽收	to sign to acknowledge receipt of sth (e.g. a delivery or document)
簽派室	dispatch office
簽發	to issue (a document); to sign and issue officially
簽發地點	place of issue (of document)
簽章	signature
簽約	to sign a contract or agreement
簽約獎金	signing bonus; sign-on bonus
簽署	to sign (an agreement)
簽訂	to agree to and sign (a treaty etc)
簽語餅	fortune cookie
簽證	visa; to issue a visa
簽賭	to gamble
簾	hanging screen or curtain
簾子	curtain
簾布	cord fabric used in vehicle tires
簾幕	hanging screen
簿	a book; a register; account-book
簿冊	a register; land register; account book
簿子	notebook; book
簿籍	account books; registers; records
簿記	bookkeeping
籀	(literary) seal script used throughout the pre-Han period; to recite
籀文	seal script used throughout the pre-Han period
籀書	seal script used throughout the pre-Han period
籃	basket (receptacle); basket (in basketball)
籃圈	(basketball) hoop; ring
籃子	basket
籃板	backboard
籃板球	rebound (basketball)
籃球	basketball
籃球場	basketball court
籃球隊	basketball team
籃筐	basket
籃網球	netball
籅	round basket used for feeding the cattle
籊	long bamboo (for fishing rod)
籌	chip (in gambling); token (for counting); ticket
籌備	preparations; to get ready for sth
籌出	to plan out; to prepare
籌劃	to plan and prepare
籌募	to raise funds; to collect money
籌商	to discuss (a plan); to negotiate (an outcome)
籌委會	organizing committee
籌子	chip; counter
籌建	to prepare to build sth
籌思	to ponder a solution; to consider (the best move, how to find a way etc)
籌拍	to prepare to film; to plan a shoot
籌措	to raise (money)
籌款	fundraising
籌略	(literary) strategy; strategic acumen
籌碼	bargaining chip; gaming chip; casino token
籌算	to calculate (using bamboo tokens on a counting board); to count beads
籌謀	to work out a strategy; to come up with a plan for
籌議	to discuss (a plan)
籌資	to raise resources
籌辦	to arrange; to make preparations
籌錢	to raise money
籌集	to collect money; to raise funds
籍	(bound form) book; record; register
籍沒	(literary) (of the government) to register and confiscate (sb's property)
籍籍	noisy; of high reputation; intricate
籍籍無名	unknown; unrenowned
籍貫	one's ancestral home (registered place of family origin, typically inherited patrilineally and recorded in official documents)
籓	big winnow basket
籔	basket for draining rice
籙	record book; archive; Taoist written charm
籚	basket made of rush; spear-shaft
籛	surname Jian
籜	sheath around joints of bamboo
籟	a sound; a noise; musical pipe with 3 reeds
籠	enclosing frame made of bamboo, wire etc; cage; basket; steamer basket
籠嘴	muzzle (device)
籠子	cage; basket; container
籠屜	bamboo steamer (for buns or dim sum)
籠檻	cage (for animals)
籠火	to make a fire
籠絡	to coax; to beguile; to win over
籠統	general; broad; sweeping
籠罩	to envelop; to shroud
籠頭	headstall; bridle
籠鳥	a caged bird
籠鳥檻猿	bird in a basket, monkey in a cage (idiom); prisoner
籣	bow case; quiver
籤	inscribed bamboo stick (used in divination, gambling, drawing lots etc)
籤條	label; tag
籥	flute; key
籧	crude bamboo mat
籩	bamboo tazza used in ancient times to hold dry food for sacrifices or at banquets
籪	bamboo fish trap
籫	(literary) bamboo tube used to hold chopsticks or spoons
籬	a fence
籬垣	fence; hedge
籬笆	fence (esp. of bamboo or wood railings)
籮	basket
籮筐	large wicker basket
籯	slender basket for chopsticks
籲	to implore
籲請	to implore; to entreat
米	uncooked rice; meter (unit of length); (slang) Chinese yuan
米倉	rice granary
米兔	(Internet slang) (loanword) #MeToo (movement against sexual harassment and assault)
米其林	Michelin (tire company)
米凱拉	Michaela (name)
米利班德	Milliband (name)
米制	metric system
米哈伊爾·普羅霍羅夫	Mikhail Prokhorov (1965-), Russian billionaire and owner of the Brooklyn Nets (NBA team)
米國	United States; name of a country that formerly existed near Samarkand
米夫	Pavel Aleksandrovich Mif (1901-1938), Ukrainian Soviet expert on Chinese affairs, secretly executed in Stalin's purges
米奇	Mickey or Mitch (name)
米奇老鼠	Mickey Mouse
米姆	meme (loanword)
米字旗	Union Jack (flag of the United Kingdom)
米尺	meter stick; metric ruler one meter in length
米已成炊	lit. the rice has already been cooked (idiom)
米底亞	Media (ancient Middle east region)
米德爾伯里	Middlebury (College)
米拉	Mira (red giant star, Omicron Ceti)
米易縣	Miyi, a county in Panzhihua City 攀枝花市[Pan1 zhi1 hua1 Shi4], Sichuan
米東區	Midong, a district of Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
米林市	Mainling, a county-level city in Nyingchi City 林芝市[Lin2 zhi1 Shi4], Tibet
米果	rice cracker
米格	MiG; Russian Aircraft Corporation; Mikoyan
米歇爾	Michel or Mitchell (name)
米歐	mu (Greek letter Μμ)
米湯	water in which rice has been boiled and then strained out
米漿	rice milk
米爾斯	Mills (name)
米爾頓	Milton (name)
米特·羅姆尼	Mitt Romney (1947-), US Republican contender 2012
米白色	off-white; creamy white
米突	meter (unit of length) (loanword) (old)
米粉	rice flour; rice-flour noodles; (Internet slang) Xiaomi fan
米粉肉	rice flour meat
米粒	grain of rice; granule
米粒組織	granulation
米粥	congee
米精	rice cereal for infants (Tw)
米糠	rice bran
米納爾迪	Minardi, Formula 1 racing team
米線	rice-flour noodles
米羅	Joan Miró (1893-1983), Spanish surrealist painter
米老鼠	Mickey Mouse
米脂縣	Mizhi, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
米色	beige
米芾	Mi Fu (1051-1107), Song poet and calligrapher
米蘭	Milano; Milan (Italy)
米蟲	rice weevil; (fig.) sponger; parasite
米袋子	(fig.) supply of grain to the public
米該亞	Micah
米諾地爾	(pharmacology) minoxidil
米諾安	Minoan (civilization on Crete)
米酒	rice wine
米醋	rice vinegar
米開朗基羅	Michelangelo Buonarroti (1475-1564), Renaissance painter and sculptor
米開蘭基羅	Michelangelo (Tw)
米飯	(cooked) rice
米高	(HK) (name) Michael
米高揚	Mikoyan (name)
米高梅	Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (American media company)
米麴菌	Aspergillus oryzae (type of mold)
米麵	rice and noodles; rice flour; rice-flour noodles
米黃	cream-colored; beige
籵	dm
籸	crushed grain
籹	cakes of rice-flour and honey
籼	long-grained rice; same as 秈
籼稻	long-grained rice (Indian rice, as opposed to round-grained rice)
籼米	long-grained rice (Indian rice, as opposed to round-grained rice 粳米[jing1 mi3])
籽	seed (of a plant)
籽實	seed; grain; kernel
粀	decameter (old)
粁	kilometer
粄	(Hakka cuisine) snacks made from glutinous rice flour (rice cakes, noodles etc)
粉	powder; cosmetic face powder
粉䎃	(ornithology) powder down
粉刷	to paint; to whitewash; emulsion
粉刺	pimple; comedo; blackhead
粉圓	tapioca ball
粉土	silt; silty soil
粉塵	fine dust (esp. in environmental and industrial contexts)
粉墨登場	to make up and go on stage (idiom); to embark on a career (esp. in politics or crime)
粉底	(cosmetics) foundation
粉底液	(cosmetics) liquid foundation
粉拳	soft, ineffectual fist (usu. of a woman)
粉撲	powder puff (cosmetics)
粉末	fine powder; dust
粉板	blackboard
粉條	vermicelli made from mung bean starch etc
粉牆	whitewashed wall; to whitewash a wall
粉盒	(cosmetics) powder box; compact
粉砂	silt
粉砂岩	siltstone
粉砂石	siltstone
粉碎	to crush; to smash; to shatter
粉碎機	pulverizer; grinder
粉筆	chalk
粉粿	(Tw) jelly made from starch, esp. sweet potato starch
粉紅	pink
粉紅山椒鳥	(bird species of China) rosy minivet (Pericrocotus roseus)
粉紅椋鳥	(bird species of China) rosy starling (Pastor roseus)
粉紅燕鷗	(bird species of China) roseate tern (Sterna dougallii)
粉紅胸鷚	(bird species of China) rosy pipit (Anthus roseatus)
粉紅腹嶺雀	(bird species of China) Asian rosy finch (Leucosticte arctoa)
粉紅色	pink
粉絲	bean vermicelli; mung bean starch noodles; cellophane noodles
粉色	pink
粉艷	delicate colors (of a woman's complexion, a flower etc)
粉芡	cooking starch; pasty mixture of starch and water
粉蝶	pierid (butterfly of the Pieridae family)
粉身碎骨	(lit.) torn body and crushed bones (idiom)
粉車	(Mary Kay Cosmetics) pink car
粉轉黑	(Internet slang) to go from being an admirer to being a detractor
粉領	pink collar; woman working in the service industry
粉頭	prostitute (old); crafty character (in opera)
粉飾	to paint; to whitewash; to decorate
粉飾太平	to pretend that everything is going well
粉餅	pressed cosmetic powder (formed into a cake); compact powder
粉黛	face powder and eyebrow liner; cosmetics; (fig.) beautiful woman
粑	a round flat cake (dialect)
粒	grain; granule; pellet; particle
粒子	(elementary) particle; grain
粒子加速器	particle accelerator
粒子束	beam of elementary particles
粒子流	stream of particles; particle flow
粒子物理	particle physics
粒子物理學	particle physics
粒徑	grain size
粒白細胞	white granulocyte (blood cell)
粒細胞	granulocyte
粔	cakes made from rice flour twisted into rings
粕	grains in distilled liquor
粗	(of sth long) wide; thick; (of sth granular) coarse
粗估	rough estimate
粗俗	vulgar
粗分	broad classification
粗剪	(cinema) rough cut
粗劣	coarse
粗厲	abrasive; husky (voice)
粗口	swear words; obscene language; foul language
粗啞	husky; hoarse; raucous
粗壯	thick and solid
粗大	thick; bulky; loud
粗心	careless; thoughtless
粗心大意	negligent; careless; inadvertent
粗放	extensive; expansive; large-scale
粗暴	crude; crass; rude; rough; harsh
粗枝大葉	thick stems and broad leaves (idiom); boorish; rough and ready
粗榧	Chinese plum-yew; Cephalotaxus sinensis (botany)
粗活	unskilled labor; heavy manual work
粗淺	shallow; superficial
粗獷	rough; rude; boorish
粗率	rough; coarse; crude
粗略	rough (not precise or accurate); cursory
粗疏	coarse; rough; careless
粗砂	grit
粗笨	awkward; clumsy; unwieldy
粗管麵	rigatoni
粗糙	crude; gruff; rough
粗糧	coarse grains (maize, sorghum etc)
粗糲	coarse rice; coarse (of food)
粗細	thick and thin; coarse and fine; thickness (caliber)
粗茶淡飯	plain tea and simple food; (fig.) bread and water
粗莽	brusque; rough; boorish; crude
粗製濫造	to churn out large quantities without regard for quality (idiom); rough and slipshod work
粗話	vulgar language; coarse language
粗語	rude words; dirty talk
粗豪	straightforward; forthright
粗鄙	vulgar; coarse; uncouth
粗野	insolent; boorish; rough (in actions)
粗陋	crude; coarse; unsophisticated
粗飯	an unappealing and unsatisfying meal
粗體	bold (typeface)
粗體字	bold letter
粗魯	coarse; crude (in one's manner); boorish
粗魯不文	crude and ill-educated (idiom)
粗鹽	coarse salt; rock salt
粘	to glue; to paste; to adhere; to stick to
粘乎乎	sticky; slimy
粘扣	velcro
粘扣帶	velcro; Taiwan pr. [nian2kou4dai4]
粘接	to bond; to splice
粘皮帶骨	(old) (idiom) muddled; indecisive; plodding
粘稠	viscous; thick and sticky
粘稠度	viscosity
粘糯	sticky; glutinous (mouthfeel)
粘纏	to stick closely to; cloying
粘聚	to cohere; to group together as a unit; to agglomerate
粘船魚	shark sucker (Echeneis naucrates)
粘蟲	army worm (e.g. Mythimna separata or Leucania separata etc, major cereal pests)
粘貼	to stick; to affix; to adhere
粘連	adhesion; to adhere; to cohere
粞	ground rice; thresh rice
粟	millet; (metonym) grain
粟子	(dialect) millet
粟米	corn; maize (dialect)
粟裕	Su Yu (1907-1984), PLA commander
粢	common millet
粥	used in 葷粥|荤粥[Xun1 yu4]
粥廠	food relief center; soup kitchen
粥棚	food relief center; soup kitchen
粥樣硬化	atherosclerosis; hardening of the arteries
粨	(old) contracted variant of 百米[bai3 mi3]
粩	a traditional pastry of Taiwan and Fujian which is fried, then coated with maltose and rolled in sesame seeds or chopped peanuts etc
粱	sorghum
粲	beautiful; bright; splendid
粲夸克	charm quark (particle physics)
粲然	clear and bright; with a big smile
粳	round-grained nonglutinous rice (Japonica rice); Taiwan pr. [geng1]
粳稻	round-grained nonglutinous rice (Japonica rice)
粳米	polished round-grained nonglutinous rice (Japonica rice)
粵	Cantonese; short name for Guangdong 廣東|广东[Guang3 dong1]
粵劇	Cantonese opera
粵拼	Jyutping, one of the many Cantonese romanization systems
粵海	Guangdong-Hainan
粵港澳大灣區	Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, established in 2017, consisting of Hong Kong, Macao and nine cities in Guangdong
粵漢鐵路	Canton-Hankou Railway, linking Guangzhou and Wuchang, incorporated since 1957 into the Jing-Guang Railway 京廣鐵路|京广铁路[Jing1 Guang3 Tie3 lu4]
粵繡	Guangdong embroidery, one of the four major traditional styles of Chinese embroidery (the other three being 蘇繡|苏绣[Su1 xiu4], 湘繡|湘绣[Xiang1 xiu4] and 蜀繡|蜀绣[Shu3 xiu4])
粵菜	Cantonese cuisine
粵語	Cantonese language
粵語拼音	Cantonese romanization
粹	pure; unmixed; essence
粺	polished rice
粻	food; white cooked rice
粼	clear (as of water)
粼粼	clear and crystalline (of water)
粽	rice dumplings wrapped in leaves
粽子	glutinous rice and choice of filling wrapped in leaves and steamed or boiled
粽葉	leaf (usually bamboo or reed leaf) used to wrap sticky rice dumplings 粽子[zong4 zi5]
精	essence; extract; vitality
精光	nothing left (money, food etc); all finished; bright and shiny
精兵	elite troops
精分	schizophrenia (abbr. for 精神分裂)
精利主義	egoism masked by a veneer of urbanity (neologism c. 2012) (abbr. for 精緻的利己主義|精致的利己主义[jing1 zhi4 de5 li4 ji3 zhu3 yi4])
精力	energy
精力充沛	vigorous; energetic
精品	quality goods; premium product; fine work (of art)
精品店	boutique
精囊	spermatophore
精壯	muscular; strong
精妙	exquisite; fine and delicate (usu. of works of art)
精子	sperm cell; spermatozoon
精子密度	sperm concentration, often called sperm count
精子庫	sperm bank
精密	accuracy; exact; precise
精密儀器	precision instruments
精密化	refinement; to add precision
精密陶瓷	fine ceramics (used for dental implants, synthetic bones, electronics, knife blades etc)
精巢	(zoology) spermary; (in higher animals) testicle
精工	Seiko, Japanese watch and electronics company
精巧	elaborate
精幹	crack (troops); special (forces); highly capable
精幹高效	top-notch efficiency
精度	precision
精彩	wonderful; marvelous; brilliant
精微	subtle; profound
精心	with utmost care; fine; meticulous
精怪	supernatural being (such as a demon, monster, ghost, spirit, gremlin etc)
精悍	(of a person) lean, tough and capable
精打光	with absolutely nothing; completely broke
精打細算	meticulous planning and careful accounting (idiom)
精挑細選	to select very carefully
精於	skillful in; proficient in; adept at
精於此道	to be proficient in the area of; skilled in this field
精日	(Internet slang) (often derog.) "spiritually Japanese"; having a strong ideological or cultural affinity with Japan (cf. 精神日本人[jing1 shen2 Ri4 ben3 ren2])
精明	astute; shrewd; smart
精明強幹	intelligent and capable (idiom)
精明能幹	able and efficient
精校	to proofread meticulously (abbr. for 精確校對|精确校对[jing1 que4 jiao4 dui4])
精氣神	the three energies of Chinese medicine: 精[jing1], 氣|气[qi4], and 神[shen2]
精氨酸	argnine (Arg), an essential amino acid
精河縣	Jinghe, a county in Bortala Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 博爾塔拉蒙古自治州|博尔塔拉蒙古自治州[Bo2 er3 ta3 la1 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
精油	essential oil
精液	semen
精深	refined; profound
精減	to reduce; to pare down; to streamline
精湛	consummate; exquisite
精準	accurate; exact; precise
精煉	to refine (a substance); to purify
精煉廠	refinery
精當	precise and appropriate
精疲力盡	spirit weary, strength exhausted (idiom); spent; drained; washed out
精疲力竭	spirit weary, strength exhausted (idiom); spent; drained; washed out
精瘦	(coll.) lean (figure, meat etc); slender
精白	pure white; spotlessly white
精益求精	(idiom) to constantly seek to improve; to keep perfecting
精盡人亡	to die from excessive ejaculation
精研	to research carefully; to study intensively
精確	accurate; precise
精確度	accuracy; precision
精礦	refined ore; concentrate
精神	vigor; vitality; spirited; good-looking
精神健康	mental health
精神分析	psychoanalysis
精神分裂症	schizophrenia
精神奕奕	in great spirits; to have great vitality
精神學	psychology
精神學家	psychologist
精神官能症	neurosis
精神家園	spiritual home
精神崩潰	nervous breakdown
精神性	spirituality; mental; nervous
精神性厭食症	anorexia nervosa
精神恍惚	(idiom) absent-minded; in a trance
精神抖擻	spirit trembling with excitement (idiom); in high spirits
精神支柱	moral pillars; spiritual props
精神文明	spiritual culture
精神日本人	(neologism) "spiritually Japanese person"; person who identifies strongly with Japan
精神滿腹	full of wisdom (idiom); astute and widely experienced
精神潔癖	moral fastidiousness; psychological obsession with maintaining moral purity in thoughts, relationships etc
精神煥發	in high spirits (idiom); glowing with health and vigor
精神狀態	mental state; psychological condition
精神狂亂	delirium; mental illness
精神生活	spiritual or moral life
精神疾病	mental illness
精神病	mental disorder; psychosis
精神病學	psychiatry
精神病患	mental illness
精神病醫院	psychiatric hospital
精神病院	mental hospital; psychiatric hospital
精神療法	psychotherapy; mental health treatment
精神百倍	lit. vitality a hundredfold (idiom); refreshed
精神科	psychiatry
精神科醫生	psychiatrist
精神藥物	psychotropic drugs
精神衰弱	psychasthenia; obsessive-compulsive disorder
精神訓話	pep talk
精神財富	spiritual wealth
精神錯亂	insanity
精神領袖	spiritual leader (of a nation or church); religious leader
精神飽滿	full of vigor (idiom); lively; in high spirits
精算	actuarial
精算師	actuary
精簡	to simplify; to reduce
精簡開支	to reduce spending; to cut spending
精米	refined rice
精粹	succinct; pure and concise
精糧	refined grain (rice, wheat etc)
精純	pure; unadulterated; exquisite
精索	spermatic cord (anatomy)
精索靜脈曲張	varicocele (medicine)
精細	fine; meticulous; careful
精練	(textiles) to scour; to degum (silk)
精緻	delicate; fine; exquisite; refined
精緻露營	glamping (neologism c. 2019)
精美	exquisite; elegant; fine
精義	quintessence; essentials
精耕細作	intensive farming
精肉	(dialect) lean meat
精良	excellent; of superior quality
精英	cream; elite; essence
精華	best feature; most important part of an object; quintessence
精蘇	(Internet slang) "spiritually Soviet"; having a strong ideological or cultural affinity with the Soviet Union
精蟲	spermatozoon; spermatozoa
精蟲衝腦	lit. the spermatozoons have gone to his head; fig. overwhelmed by lust
精衛	mythological bird, reincarnation of drowned daughter Nüwa 女娃[Nu:3 wa2] of Fiery Emperor 炎帝[Yan2 di4]
精衛填海	lit. mythical bird Jingwei tries to fill the ocean with stones (idiom); futile ambition
精裝	hardcover (book); elaborately packaged; opposite: 簡裝|简装[jian3 zhuang1]
精製	refined
精誠	sincerity; absolute good faith
精誠所至	no difficulty is insurmountable if one is sincere (idiom)
精誠所至，金石為開	lit. metal and stone yield to power of sincerity (idiom)
精講多練	a teaching strategy combining a concise explanation of essential concepts with frequent practice
精讀	to read carefully and thoroughly; intensive reading
精讀課	intensive reading course
精通	to be proficient in; to master (a subject)
精進	to forge ahead vigorously; to dedicate oneself to progress
精選	carefully chosen; handpicked; best of the bunch
精釀啤酒	craft beer
精銳	elite (e.g. troops); crack; best quality personnel
精闢	clear and penetrating (e.g. analysis); incisive; insightful
精障	mental disorder (abbr. for 精神障礙|精神障碍[jing1 shen2 zhang4 ai4]) (Tw)
精雕細刻	(lit.) fine sculpting (idiom)
精靈	spirit; fairy; elf
精靈文	Elvish (language of elves)
精髓	marrow; pith; quintessence; essence
精魂	spirit; soul
粿	rice cake (typically made with glutinous rice flour and steamed)
粿條	flat rice noodles
粿汁	kway chap (Teochew noodle soup)
糅	mix
糅合	mix together
糆	rice noodles; rice fragments
糈	official pay; sacrificial rice
糊	to smear; to daub; to cover (a surface with sth sticky or paste-like)
糊劑	paste; glue
糊口	to scrape a meager living; to get by with difficulty
糊名	(old) to seal an examinee's name on the examination paper to prevent fraud
糊嘴	to scrape a meager living; to get by with difficulty
糊塗	muddled; silly; confused
糊塗蟲	blunderer; bungler
糊塗賬	muddled accounts; a mess of bookkeeping
糊弄	to fool; to deceive; to go through the motions
糊牆	to paper a wall
糊牆紙	wallpaper
糊精	dextrin
糊糊	viscous; gooey; sticky
糊糊塗塗	confused; muddled; stupid
糊裡糊塗	confused; vague; indistinct
糌	used in 糌粑[zan1 ba5]
糌粑	tsampa; tsamba (Tibetan staple food)
糍	used in 糍粑[ci2 ba1] and 糯米糍[nuo4 mi3 ci2]
糍粑	ciba, glutinous rice cake
糒	food for a journey; cakes
糔	to wash (rice etc)
糕	cake
糕餅	cakes; pastries
糕點	cakes; pastries
糖	sugar; sweets; candy
糖分	sugar content
糖原	glycogen
糖友	diabetes sufferer
糖寮	sugar mill
糖尿病	diabetes; diabetes mellitus
糖尿病足	(medicine) diabetic foot
糖度	sugar content
糖彈	sugar-coated bullets, term used by Mao (originally in 1949) to refer to corrupting bourgeois influences (abbr. for 糖衣炮彈|糖衣炮弹[tang2 yi1 pao4 dan4])
糖房	sugar mill
糖果	candy
糖水	syrup; sweetened water; tong sui (sweet soup)
糖汁	syrup
糖油粑粑	sweet snack made from glutinous rice, sugar and honey, common in Changsha 長沙|长沙[Chang2 sha1], Hunan
糖漿	syrup
糖爹	(slang) sugar daddy
糖瓜	malt sugar candy, a traditional offering to the kitchen god Zaoshen 灶神
糖甙	(dated) glycoside
糖皮質激素	glucocorticosteroid (corticosteroid hormone secreted by the adrenal cortex)
糖稀	maltose syrup
糖粉	icing sugar; confectioner's sugar; powdered sugar
糖精	saccharin
糖脂	glycolipid
糖苷	glycoside
糖萼	glycocalyx
糖葫蘆	sugar-coated Chinese hawthorn or other fruit on a bamboo skewer
糖蛋白	glycoprotein
糖蜜	molasses; syrup
糖衣	frosting or icing (on cakes etc); sugarcoating
糖衣炮彈	sugar-coated bullets, term used by Mao (originally in 1949) to refer to corrupting bourgeois influences
糖酵解	glycolysis (anaerobic metabolism of glucose)
糖醇	sugar alcohol
糖醋	sweet and sour
糖醋肉	sweet and sour pork
糖醋里脊	sweet and sour pork
糖醋魚	sweet and sour fish
糖霜	frosting; icing
糖類	sugar (chemistry)
糖飴	malt sugar; maltose
糖高粱	sweet sorghum
糗	dry rations (for a journey)
糗事	awkward incident
糗糧	dry rations
糙	rough; coarse (in texture)
糙皮病	pellagra (medicine)
糙米	brown rice
糙面內質網	rough endoplasmic reticulum
糜	rice gruel; rotten; to waste (money)
糜爛	dissipated; rotten; decaying
糜爛性毒劑	vesicant
糝	to mix (of powders)
糞	manure; dung
糞便	excrement; feces; night soil
糞凼	cesspool; cesspit
糞化石	coprolite
糞土	dirty soil; dung and dirt; (fig.) worthless thing
糞坑	latrine pit; cesspit
糞尿	feces and urine; excreta; human or animal waste
糞水	wastewater that contains feces
糞石	coprolite
糞耙	manure rake
糞肥	manure; dung
糞草	compost made with animal manure and straw
糞蛆	muckworm
糞道	coprodeum (in birds)
糞金龜	dung beetle
糞金龜子	dung beetle
糞除	(literary) to clean up
糞青	"shit youth", sarcastic homonym for 憤青|愤青[fen4 qing1]
糟	dregs; draff; pickled in wine
糟了	gosh!; oh no!; darn!
糟心	vexed; annoyed; upset
糟溜黃魚	stir-fried yellow fish filet
糟溜黃魚片	stir-fried yellow fish filet
糟粕	dross; dregs; rubbish
糟糕	too bad; how terrible; what bad luck
糟糠	chaff, husks, distillers' dregs etc (food eaten by the poor)
糟糠妻	wife who goes through the hardships of poverty with her husband
糟踐	to waste; to spoil; to destroy
糟蹋	to waste; to spoil; to ruin; to wreck; to insult; to humiliate
糟透	in a bad state; horrible; dreadful
糠	husk; (of a radish etc) spongy (and therefore unappetising)
糠疹	pityriasis (medicine)
糠秕	same as 秕糠[bi3 kang1]
糠醛	furfural (chemistry)
糢	used in 糢糊[mo2 hu5]
糧	grain; food; provisions
糧倉	granary; barn; fig. bread basket (of fertile agricultural land)
糧店	grain store
糧庫	grain depot
糧棧	wholesale grain store
糧票	coupons for food or grain used in a PRC economic program c. 1955-1993
糧秣	provisions (e.g. military); forage; fodder
糧站	grain supply station
糧草	army provisions; rations and fodder
糧荒	famine; critical shortage of grain
糧行	grain retailer (in former times)
糧農	food and agriculture; grain farmer
糧道	route for providing foodstuff
糧食	foodstuff; cereals
糧食作物	grain crops; cereals
糧餉	army provisions
糨	(of soup, paste etc) thick
糨子	(coll.) paste
糬	used in 麻糬[ma2 shu3]
糯	(bound form) glutinous rice; (bound form) (of cereal grain) glutinous
糯稻	glutinous rice; sticky rice
糯米	glutinous rice (Oryza sativa var. glutinosa)
糯米粉	glutinous rice flour
糯米糍	glutinous rice cake
糯米糕	glutinous rice cake
糯米紙	rice paper; membrane of glutinous rice, used to wrap sweets etc
糯麥	glutinous barley
糰	dumpling
糰子	dango (Japanese dumpling)
糲	coarse rice
糴	to buy up (grain)
糵	(literary) yeast used for brewing wine
糶	to sell (grain)
糸	fine silk; Kangxi radical 120
糹	"silk" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 120), occurring in 红, 绿, 累 etc
糺	army (used during the Liao, Jin and Yuan dynasties)
系	system; department; faculty
系主任	head of a (university) department; department chair
系出名門	to come from a distinguished family
系列	series; set
系列片	film series
系統	system
系統性	systematic
系統角色	non-playable character (in a role-playing game)
系綜	(physics) ensemble
糾	to gather together; to investigate; to entangle
糾偏	to correct an error
糾合	gathering; a get-together
糾察	to maintain order; steward (policing a meeting)
糾彈	to censure; to denounce; to impeach
糾正	to correct; to make right
糾眾	to muster; to gather a crowd
糾紛	dispute
糾結	to intertwine; to band together (with); to link up (with)
糾纏	to be in a tangle; to nag
糾纏不清	hopelessly muddled; impossible to unravel
糾葛	entanglement; dispute
糾錯	to correct an error
糾集	to gather together; to muster
紀	surname Ji; also pr. [Ji4]
紀伯倫	Khalil Gibran (1883-1931), Lebanese poet, writer and artist
紀傳體	history genre based on biography, such as Sima Qian's Record of the Historian
紀元	calendar era; epoch
紀元前	before the common era (BC)
紀委	discipline inspection commission
紀實	record of actual events; documentary (factual rather than fictional)
紀年	to number the years; calendar era; annals
紀律	discipline
紀律檢查委員會	Central Commission for Discipline Inspection of the CCP
紀念	to commemorate; to honor the memory of; memento; keepsake; souvenir
紀念冊	commemorative album; autograph book; (graduation) yearbook
紀念品	souvenir; memento
紀念堂	memorial hall; mausoleum
紀念幣	commemorative coin
紀念日	day of commemoration; memorial day
紀念獎	trophy
紀念碑	monument
紀念章	memorial badge; souvenir badge
紀念郵票	commemorative postage stamp
紀念鈔	commemorative banknote
紀念館	memorial museum; memorial hall
紀昀	Ji Yun (1724-1805), Qing Dynasty writer, author of supernatural novel Notes on a Minutely Observed Thatched Hut 閱微草堂筆記|阅微草堂笔记
紀檢	disciplinary inspection; to inspect another's discipline
紀要	minutes; written summary of a meeting
紀錄片	newsreel; documentary (film or TV program)
紂	Zhou, pejorative name given posthumously to the last king of the Shang dynasty, King Zhou of Shang 商紂王|商纣王[Shang1 Zhou4 Wang2] (the name refers to a crupper 紂|纣[zhou4], the piece of horse tack most likely to be soiled by the horse)
紂辛	Zhou Xin (c. 11th century BC), last king of the Shang dynasty
紃	bind; silkcords
約	to make an appointment; to invite; approximately
約伯	Job (name); Book of Job in the Old Testament
約伯記	Book of Job (in the Old Testament)
約克	York
約克郡	Yorkshire (English region)
約出	to arrange to go on a date with sb
約分	reduced fraction (e.g. one half for three sixths)
約制	to bind; to restrict; to constrain
約合	approximately; about (some numerical value)
約同	to invite sb to go along with oneself (to a meeting, on a trip etc)
約嗎	(neologism, attested by 2014) (slang) Are you interested? (originally an invitation for casual sex, later generalized as a playful or humorous invitation for any activity)
約坦	Jotham (son of Uzziah)
約塔	iota (Greek letter Ιι)
約契	contract; oath of allegiance
約定	to agree on sth (after discussion); to conclude a bargain; to arrange
約定俗成	established by popular usage (idiom); common usage agreement
約定資訊速率	committed information rate (Frame Relay); CIR
約拿書	Book of Jonah
約數	divisor (of a number); approximate number
約旦	Jordan (country)
約旦河	Jordan River (in southwestern Asia)
約書亞	Joshua (name)
約書亞記	Book of Joshua
約會	appointment; engagement; date
約會對象	partner for dating; a date (boyfriend or girlfriend)
約束	to restrict; to limit to; to constrain
約束力	(of a contract) binding (law)
約束條件	restrictive condition; constraint
約根	Jurgen (name)
約櫃	Ark of the Covenant
約沙法	Jehoshaphat, fourth king of Judah (Judaism)
約法	temporary law; provisional constitution
約法三章	to agree on three laws (idiom); three-point covenant
約炮	(slang) to hook up for sex; to arrange a casual sexual encounter (often with a new or non-committed partner)
約珥書	Book of Joel
約瑟	Joseph (name)
約瑟夫	Joseph (name)
約瑟夫·斯大林	Joseph Stalin (1879-1953), Soviet dictator
約略	approximate; rough
約略估計	approximate estimate; to reckon roughly
約當現金	cash equivalent (accountancy)
約稿	to commission (a newspaper article, piece of writing, artwork etc)
約章	charter
約等於	approximately equal to
約納	Jonah
約維克	Gjøvik (city in Oppland, Norway)
約翰	John (name); Johan (name); Johann (name)
約翰·厄普代克	John Updike, US novelist (1932-2009), Pulitzer Prize winner
約翰·拉貝	John Rabe (1882-1950), German who helped protect Chinese during the Nanking massacre period
約翰·本仁	John Bunyan (1628-1688), English puritan writer, author of Pilgrim's Progress 天路歷程|天路历程
約翰·霍金斯	John Hawkins (1532-1595), British seaman involved in sea war with Spain
約翰·霍金斯大學	Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore
約翰一書	First epistle of St John
約翰三書	Third epistle of St John
約翰二書	Second epistle of St John
約翰保羅	John Paul (name)
約翰內斯堡	Johannesburg, South Africa
約翰壹書	First epistle of St John; also written 約翰一書|约翰一书
約翰斯頓	Johnston, Johnson, Johnstone etc, name
約翰福音	Gospel according to St John
約翰貳書	Second epistle of St John; also written 約翰二書|约翰二书
約翰遜	Johnson or Johnston (name)
約莫	to estimate; to guess; about; around; approximately
約西亞	Josiah or Yoshiyahu (649-609 BC), a king of Judah (Judaism)
約見	to arrange an interview; an appointment (with the foreign ambassador)
約言	promise; one's word; pledge
約計	to calculate to be roughly ...
約談	to arrange a meeting for a formal talk (usu. by an authority with a subordinate); to summon for questioning or a warning
約請	to invite; to issue an invitation
約集	to gather at an appointed place and time
紅	used in 女紅|女红[nu : 3 gong1]
紅不讓	home run (loanword); a big hit (hugely popular) (Tw)
紅五類	the “five red categories” (Cultural Revolution term), i.e. poor and lower-middle peasants, workers, revolutionary soldiers, revolutionary cadres, and revolutionary martyrs
紅交嘴雀	(bird species of China) red crossbill (Loxia curvirostra)
紅人	a favorite of sb in power; a celebrity; American Indian
紅利	bonus; dividend
紅利股	dividend-paying stock
紅利股票	dividend-paying stock
紅加侖	redcurrant
紅包	money wrapped in red as a gift; bonus payment; kickback
紅十字	Red Cross
紅十字會	the Red Cross
紅原縣	Hongyuan, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
紅原雞	(bird species of China) red junglefowl (Gallus gallus)
紅古區	Honggu, a district of Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
紅名單	whitelist
紅喉姬鶲	(bird species of China) taiga flycatcher (Ficedula albicilla)
紅喉山鷓鴣	(bird species of China) rufous-throated partridge (Arborophila rufogularis)
紅喉歌鴝	(bird species of China) Siberian rubythroat (Calliope calliope)
紅喉潛鳥	(bird species of China) red-throated loon (Gavia stellata)
紅喉鷚	(bird species of China) red-throated pipit (Anthus cervinus)
紅嘴山鴉	(bird species of China) red-billed chough (Pyrrhocorax pyrrhocorax)
紅嘴巨鷗	(bird species of China) Caspian tern (Hydroprogne caspia)
紅嘴椋鳥	(bird species of China) Burmese myna (Acridotheres burmannicus)
紅嘴相思鳥	(bird species of China) red-billed leiothrix (Leiothrix lutea)
紅嘴藍鵲	(bird species of China) red-billed blue magpie (Urocissa erythroryncha)
紅嘴鉤嘴鶥	(bird species of China) black-crowned scimitar babbler (Pomatorhinus ferruginosus)
紅嘴鴉雀	(bird species of China) great parrotbill (Paradoxornis aemodium)
紅嘴鷗	(bird species of China) black-headed gull (Chroicocephalus ridibundus)
紅嘴鸏	(bird species of China) red-billed tropicbird (Phaethon aethereus)
紅土	red soil; laterite
紅地毯	red carpet
紅堡	Red Fort (historic building in Delhi, India)
紅場	Red Square (in Moscow)
紅塔區	Hongta, a district of Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
紅塵	the world of mortals (Buddhism); human society; worldly affairs
紅外	infrared (ray)
紅外光譜	infrared spectrum
紅外線	infrared ray
紅妝	beautiful feminine attire; (fig.) young woman
紅姑娘	Chinese lantern plant; winter cherry; strawberry ground-cherry
紅娘	matchmaker
紅學	"Redology", academic field devoted to the study of A Dream of Red Mansions
紅安縣	Hong'an, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
紅客	"honker", Chinese hacker motivated by patriotism, using one's skills to protect domestic networks and work in national interest
紅寡婦鳥	(ornithology) red bishop (Euplectes orix)
紅寶書	the "Little Red Book" of selected writings of Mao Zedong (refers to 毛主席語錄|毛主席语录[Mao2 Zhu3 xi2 Yu3 lu4])
紅寶石	ruby
紅寺堡區	Hongsibu, a district of Wuzhong City 吳忠市|吴忠市[Wu2 zhong1 Shi4], Ningxia
紅尾伯勞	(bird species of China) brown shrike (Lanius cristatus)
紅尾歌鴝	(bird species of China) rufous-tailed robin (Larvivora sibilans)
紅尾水鴝	(bird species of China) plumbeous water redstart (Phoenicurus fuliginosus)
紅尾鶇	(bird species of China) Naumann's thrush (Turdus naumanni)
紅尾鸏	(bird species of China) red-tailed tropicbird (Phaethon rubricauda)
紅山區	Hongshan, a district of Chifeng City 赤峰市[Chi4 feng1 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
紅崗區	Honggang, a district of Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
紅巨星	red giant (star)
紅巾軍	the Red Turbans, peasant rebellion at the end of the Yuan dynasty
紅彤彤	bright red
紅心	heart ♥ (in card games); red, heart-shaped symbol; bullseye
紅撲撲	red; rosy; flushed
紅斑	(medicine) erythema
紅斑性狼瘡	lupus erythematosus
紅斑狼瘡	(medicine) lupus erythematosus
紅新月	Red Crescent
紅旗	red flag
紅旗區	Hongqi, a district of Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
紅日	sun
紅星	red star; five pointed star as symbol or communism or proletariat
紅景天	roseroot (Rhodiola rosea)
紅暈	a reddish flush on the face (as from emotion, health or exertion); a rosy tint (on clouds, flowers or water)
紅木	red wood; mahogany; rosewood
紅杏出牆	lit. the red apricot tree leans over the garden wall (idiom)
紅果	haw fruit
紅桃	heart ♥ (in card games)
紅梅花雀	(bird species of China) red avadavat (Amandava amandava)
紅棗	jujube; red date
紅極一時	tremendously popular for a while
紅榿樹	red alder (Alnus rubra)
紅樓夢	A Dream of Red Mansions (first completed edition 1791) by Cao Xueqin 曹雪芹[Cao2 Xue3 qin2], one of the four great novels
紅樹	red mangrove (Rhizophora mangle)
紅樹林	mangrove forest or swamp
紅橋	Hongqiao district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
紅橋區	Hongqiao district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
紅橙	blood orange
紅機	red phone, a telephone in the secure internal phone system used by the CCP elite
紅檜	Formosan cypress, aka Taiwan red cedar (Chamaecyparis formosensis)
紅櫻槍	ancient spear-like weapon, decorated with a red tassel
紅歌	Chinese communist or revolutionary song
紅殷殷	dark red; crimson; also pr. [hong2 yin1 yin1]
紅毛丹	rambutan or rumbutan (tropical fruit) (Nephelium lappaceum)
紅毯	red carpet
紅汞	merbromin; mercurochrome
紅河	Red River, principal river of northern Vietnam, originating in Yunnan (southwestern China)
紅河哈尼族彝族自治州	Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
紅河縣	Honghe, a county in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
紅油	chili oil
紅海	(neologism) highly competitive market (contrasted with 藍海|蓝海[lan2 hai3])
紅溫	(slang) to lose one's cool; to get worked up (originally a gaming term)
紅潤	ruddy; rosy; florid
紅潮	to blush; flush; red tide (algal bloom)
紅灌木茶	rooibos tea
紅火	prosperous
紅火蟻	fire ant (Solenopsis invicta), an introduced species in China
紅熊貓	lesser Panda; red panda; firefox
紅燈	red light
紅燈區	red-light district
紅燈記	The Legend of the Red Lantern
紅燒	to braise in soy sauce until reddish-brown
紅燒肉	red braised pork
紅燭	red candle (used during birthdays and other celebrations)
紅牌	red card (sports)
紅牙	clappers (musical instrument used to mark the time, made from ivory or hardwood and painted red)
紅牛	Red Bull (energy drink)
紅牛皮菜	chard (Beta vulgaris)
紅玉髓	(mineralogy) carnelian
紅珊瑚	red coral
紅瑪瑙	cornelian
紅璧璽	topaz
紅環	Rotring (company)
紅男綠女	young people decked out in gorgeous clothes (idiom)
紅白喜事	weddings and funerals
紅盤	(of a stock price or market index) currently higher than at the previous day's close
紅眉朱雀	(bird species of China) Chinese beautiful rosefinch (Carpodacus davidianus)
紅眉松雀	(bird species of China) crimson-browed finch (Carpodacus subhimachalus)
紅眼	to become infuriated; to see red; envious
紅眼病	pinkeye; envy; jealousy
紅眼航班	red-eye flight
紅矮星	red dwarf star
紅磡	Hung Hom, a locality in Kowloon, Hong Kong
紅磷	red phosphorus
紅移	red shift (astronomy)
紅穀灘區	Honggutan, a district of Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
紅箍兒	(northern dialects) red armband
紅籌股	red chip stocks (Chinese company stocks incorporated outside mainland China and listed in the Hong Kong stock exchange)
紅粉	rouge and powder; (fig.) the fair sex
紅糖	brown sugar
紅細胞	erythrocyte; red blood cell
紅細胞沉降率	erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
紅綠燈	traffic light; traffic signal
紅線	red line
紅纓槍	traditional Chinese spear with a red tassel at the base of the spearhead
紅羊劫	national disaster (ancient astrological allusion)
紅翅旋壁雀	(bird species of China) wallcreeper (Tichodroma muraria)
紅翅綠鳩	(bird species of China) white-bellied green pigeon (Treron sieboldii)
紅翅藪鶥	(bird species of China) scarlet-faced liocichla (Liocichla ripponi)
紅翅鳳頭鵑	(bird species of China) chestnut-winged cuckoo (Clamator coromandus)
紅翅鵙鶥	(bird species of China) white-browed shrike-babbler; Blyth's shrike-babbler (Pteruthius aeralatus)
紅耳鵯	(bird species of China) red-whiskered bulbul (Pycnonotus jocosus)
紅肉	red meat
紅股	(economics) bonus stock or share, i.e. share issued fully or partly paid to an existing shareholder in a company, generally on a pro rata basis
紅背伯勞	(bird species of China) red-backed shrike (Lanius collurio)
紅背紅尾鴝	(bird species of China) Eversmann's redstart; rufous-backed redstart (Phoenicurus erythronotus)
紅背蜘蛛	redback spider
紅胡子	band of mounted bandits in Manchuria (archaic)
紅胸啄花鳥	(bird species of China) fire-breasted flowerpecker (Dicaeum ignipectus)
紅胸姬鶲	(bird species of China) red-breasted flycatcher (Ficedula parva)
紅胸山鷓鴣	(bird species of China) chestnut-breasted partridge (Arborophila mandellii)
紅胸朱雀	(bird species of China) red-fronted rosefinch (Carpodacus puniceus)
紅胸田雞	(bird species of China) ruddy-breasted crake (Zapornia fusca)
紅胸秋沙鴨	(bird species of China) red-breasted merganser (Mergus serrator)
紅胸角雉	(bird species of China) satyr tragopan (Tragopan satyra)
紅胸鴴	(bird species of China) Caspian plover (Anarhynchus asiaticus)
紅胸黑雁	(bird species of China) red-breasted goose (Branta ruficollis)
紅脅繡眼鳥	(bird species of China) chestnut-flanked white-eye (Zosterops erythropleurus)
紅脅藍尾鴝	(bird species of China) red-flanked bluetail (Tarsiger cyanurus)
紅脖子	redneck
紅腫	inflamed; red and swollen
紅腰朱雀	(bird species of China) red-mantled rosefinch (Carpodacus rhodochlamys)
紅腳苦惡鳥	(bird species of China) brown crake (Amaurornis akool)
紅腳隼	(bird species of China) Amur falcon (Falco amurensis)
紅腳鰹鳥	(bird species of China) red-footed booby (Sula sula)
紅腳鷸	(bird species of China) common redshank (Tringa totanus)
紅腸	saveloy
紅腹咬鵑	(bird species of China) Ward's trogon (Harpactes wardi)
紅腹山雀	(bird species of China) Père David's tit; rusty-breasted tit (Poecile davidi)
紅腹濱鷸	(bird species of China) red knot (Calidris canutus)
紅腹灰雀	(bird species of China) Eurasian bullfinch (Pyrrhula pyrrhula)
紅腹紅尾鴝	(bird species of China) Güldenstädt's redstart; white-winged redstart (Phoenicurus erythrogastrus)
紅腹角雉	(bird species of China) Temminck's tragopan (Tragopan temminckii)
紅腹錦雞	(bird species of China) golden pheasant (Chrysolophus pictus)
紅腿小隼	(bird species of China) collared falconet (Microhierax caerulescens)
紅腿斑秧雞	(bird species of China) red-legged crake (Rallina fasciata)
紅臂章	(southern dialects) red armband
紅臉	to blush; to turn red
紅臉鸕鶿	(bird species of China) red-faced cormorant (Urile urile)
紅色	red (color); revolutionary
紅色孃子軍	Red Detachment of Women, revolutionary opera that premiered in 1964
紅色旅遊	red tourism, focused on sites in China associated with the Communist Revolution
紅色炸彈	(jocular) wedding invitation (lit. "red bomb", because wedding invitations use red paper, and invitees are expected to give a substantial sum of money as a wedding gift)
紅色高棉	Khmer Rouge, Cambodian political party
紅艷艷	brilliant red
紅花	safflower (Carthamus tinctorius)
紅花崗區	Honghuagang, a district of Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
紅苕	(dialect) sweet potato or yam
紅茶	black tea
紅茶菌	kombucha (fermented tea)
紅菜頭	beet; beetroot; (dialect) carrot
紅葉	red autumnal leaves
紅蓮	red lotus
紅薯	sweet potato
紅藥水	mercurochrome (antiseptic solution)
紅蘿蔔	carrot; red radish
紅蛋	red-dyed egg, traditionally given to friends and relatives one month after the birth of one's child
紅血球	erythrocyte; red blood cell
紅血球生成素	erythropoietin (EPO)
紅衛兵	Red Guards (Cultural Revolution, 1966-1976)
紅衣主教	Catholic cardinal
紅角鴞	(bird species of China) oriental scops owl (Otus sunia)
紅豆	azuki bean; red bean
紅豆杉醇	Taxol (a.k.a. Paclitaxel), mitotic inhibitor used in cancer chemotherapy
紅豆沙	red bean paste
紅超巨星	red supergiant (star)
紅軍	Red Army (1928-1937), predecessor of the PLA
紅輪	the sun
紅辣椒	hot red pepper; chili
紅通	(Interpol) red notice
紅運	good luck
紅酒	red wine
紅醋栗	red currant
紅鈴蟲	pink bollworm; Pectinophora gassypiella
紅銅	copper (chemistry)
紅隼	(bird species of China) common kestrel (Falco tinnunculus)
紅頂綠鳩	(bird species of China) whistling green pigeon; Taiwan green pigeon (Treron formosae)
紅頂鶥	(bird species of China) chestnut-capped babbler (Timalia pileata)
紅領	red collar; government worker
紅領巾	red neckscarf; by extension, a member of the Young Pioneers
紅領綠鸚鵡	(bird species of China) rose-ringed parakeet (Psittacula krameri)
紅頭咬鵑	(bird species of China) red-headed trogon (Harpactes erythrocephalus)
紅頭噪鶥	(bird species of China) chestnut-crowned laughingthrush (Trochalopteron erythrocephalum)
紅頭文件	red-letterhead document, an official document with the name of the issuing government agency printed in red at the top, circulated to relevant bodies
紅頭潛鴨	(bird species of China) common pochard (Aythya ferina)
紅頭灰雀	(bird species of China) red-headed bullfinch (Pyrrhula erythrocephala)
紅頭穗鶥	(bird species of China) rufous-capped babbler (Cyanoderma ruficeps)
紅頭菜	beetroot
紅頭長尾山雀	(bird species of China) black-throated bushtit (Aegithalos concinnus)
紅頭鴉雀	(bird species of China) rufous-headed parrotbill (Paradoxornis bakeri)
紅頸濱鷸	(bird species of China) red-necked stint (Calidris ruficollis)
紅頸瓣蹼鷸	(bird species of China) red-necked phalarope (Phalaropus lobatus)
紅頸綠啄木鳥	(bird species of China) red-collared woodpecker (Picus rabieri)
紅頸葦鵐	(bird species of China) ochre-rumped bunting; Japanese reed bunting (Emberiza yessoensis)
紅額穗鶥	(bird species of China) rufous-fronted babbler (Cyanoderma rufifrons)
紅額金翅雀	(bird species of China) European goldfinch (Carduelis carduelis)
紅顏	a beautiful woman; young beauties; youths
紅顏知己	close female friend; confidante
紅顏禍水	femme fatale
紅顏薄命	beautiful women suffer unhappy fates (idiom)
紅馬甲	red waistcoat; (stock market) floor trader; floor broker
紅骨髓	red bone marrow; hematopoietic marrow
紅高粱	red sorghum
紅魔鬼	Red Devils, nickname of Manchester United Football Club
紅鰹	red mullet
紅麴	red yeast (so called, although it's actually a mold, not a yeast), a fermentation product created by culturing rice with the mold Monascus purpureus, producing red pigments and bioactive compounds, used in food for its color, as a flavor enhancer, and for its health benefits
紅麴米	red yeast rice
紅黑名單	whitelist and blacklist, i.e. 紅名單|红名单[hong2 ming2 dan1] and 黑名單|黑名单[hei1 ming2 dan1]
紅黴素	(pharmacology) erythromycin
紆	winding; twisting
紆尊降貴	(idiom) to show deference to sb of lower status; to condescend; to deign
紇	tassels
紈	(literary) fine white silk; delicate silk fabric
紈扇	round silk fan
紈絝子弟	(idiom) hedonistic son of rich parents
紉	to thread (a needle); (bound form) to sew; to stitch
紉佩	(literary) to esteem (sb's virtues) profoundly; to feel deep gratitude (for sb's kindness)
紉針	to thread a needle
紊	involved; tangled; disorderly
紊亂	disorder; chaos
紊流	turbulent flow
紋	line; trace; mark; pattern; grain (of wood etc); to tattoo
紋刺	to tattoo
紋喉鳳鶥	(bird species of China) stripe-throated yuhina (Yuhina gularis)
紋喉鵯	(bird species of China) stripe-throated bulbul (Pycnonotus finlaysoni)
紋層	lamina; lamella; lamination
紋理	vein lines (in marble or fingerprint); grain (in wood etc)
紋章	coat of arms
紋絲	tiny bit; a jot; whisker
紋絲不動	to not move a single jot (idiom)
紋縷	veined pattern; wrinkles; vein lines (in marble or fingerprint)
紋繡	cosmetic tattooing; semi-permanent makeup; micropigmentation
紋背捕蛛鳥	(bird species of China) streaked spiderhunter (Arachnothera magna)
紋胸啄木鳥	(bird species of China) stripe-breasted woodpecker (Dendrocopos atratus)
紋胸斑翅鶥	(bird species of China) streak-throated barwing (Actinodura waldeni)
紋胸織雀	(bird species of China) streaked weaver (Ploceus manyar)
紋胸鶥	(bird species of China) pin-striped tit-babbler (Mixornis gularis)
紋胸鷦鶥	(bird species of China) eyebrowed wren-babbler (Napothera epilepidota)
紋路	veined pattern; wrinkles; vein lines (in marble or fingerprint)
紋銀	fine silver
紋頭斑翅鶥	(bird species of China) hoary-throated barwing (Actinodura nipalensis)
紋風不動	absolutely still; fig. not the slightest change
紋飾	decorative motif; figure
納	to receive; to accept; to enjoy
納什	(surname) Nash
納什維爾	Nashville, capital of Tennessee
納傑夫	Najaf (city in Iraq, a Shia holy city)
納入	to bring into; to channel into; to integrate into
納匝肋	Nazareth
納吉布	Mohamed Naguib (1901–1984), first president of the Republic of Egypt
納塔乃耳	Nathaniel
納妾	to take a concubine
納寵	to take a concubine
納尼	(Internet slang) what? (loanword from Japanese 何 なに nani)
納尼亞	Narnia, children's fantasy world in stories by C.S. Lewis
納尼亞傳奇	The Chronicles of Narnia, children's stories by C.S. Lewis
納悶	puzzled; bewildered
納扎爾巴耶夫	Nursultan Nazarbayev (1940-), president of Kazakhstan 1990-2019
納指	Nasdaq Composite Index (abbr. for 納斯達克指數|纳斯达克指数[Na4 si1 da2 ke4 zhi3 shu4])
納撒尼爾·霍桑	Nathaniel Hawthorne (1804-1864) American novelist and short story writer
納斯達克	Nasdaq (stock exchange)
納新	to accept the new; to take fresh (air)
納星	nanosatellite
納木錯	Namtso or Lake Nam (officially Nam Co), mountain lake at Nakchu in central Tibet
納洛酮	naloxone (medication) (loanword)
納涼	to enjoy the cool air
納溪區	Naxi, a district of Luzhou City 瀘州市|泸州市[Lu2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
納爾遜	Horatio Nelson (1758-1805), British naval hero
納瓦特爾語	Nahuatl (language)
納瓦薩	Navassa
納瓦霍	Navajo
納皮爾	Napier (name)
納福	to accept a life of ease; to enjoy a comfortable retirement
納秒	nanosecond, ns, 10^-9 s (PRC); Taiwan equivalent: 奈秒[nai4 miao3]
納稅	to pay taxes
納稅人	taxpayer
納米	nanometer
納米技術	nanotechnology
納米比亞	Namibia
納粹	Nazi (loanword)
納粹主義	Nazism
納粹分子	Nazi
納粹德國	Nazi Germany (1933-1945)
納粹黨	Nazi Party
納糧	to pay taxes in kind (rice, cloth etc)
納罕	bewildered; amazed
納聘	to pay bride-price (payment to the bride's family in former times)
納蘭性德	Nalan Xingde (1655-1685), Manchu ethnic Qing dynasty poet
納衛星	nanosatellite
納西	Nakhi ethnic group
納西族	Nakhi ethnic group
納豆	nattō, a type of fermented soybean, popular as a breakfast food in Japan
納豆菌	Bacillus subtilis (formerly Bacillus natto), a common soil bacterium
納貢	to pay tribute
納賄	bribery; to give or accept bribes
納賽爾	Nasr or Nasser (Arab name)
納赫雄	Nahshon (name)
納達爾	Nadal (name); Rafael Nadal (1986-), Spanish tennis player
納閩	Labuan, island territory of Malaysia off Sabah coast, north Borneo 婆羅洲|婆罗洲
納降	to surrender; to accept defeat
納雍縣	Nayong, a county in Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
納霍德卡	Nakhodka (city in Russia)
納骨塔	columbarium
納鴻	Nahum
紐	to turn; to wrench; button
紐交所	New York Stock Exchange (abbr. for 紐約證券交易所|纽约证券交易所[Niu3 yue1 Zheng4 quan4 Jiao1 yi4 suo3])
紐倫堡	Nuremberg, town in Bavaria, Germany
紐卡斯爾	Newcastle (place name)
紐卡素	Newcastle
紐埃	Niue (self-governing island state in free association with New Zealand)
紐奧良	New Orleans, Louisiana
紐子	button
紐帶	tie; link; bond
紐幾內亞	New Guinea; Papua-New Guinea
紐扣	button
紐扣電池	button cell
紐時	New York Times, abbr. for 紐約時報|纽约时报[Niu3 Yue1 Shi2 bao4]
紐澤西	New Jersey, USA (Tw)
紐瓦克	Newark (place name)
紐甜	(loanword) neotame
紐約	New York
紐約人	New Yorker
紐約大學	New York University
紐約客	The New Yorker, US magazine; resident of New York
紐約州	New York state
紐約市	New York City
紐約帝國大廈	Empire State Building
紐約時報	New York Times (newspaper)
紐約證券交易所	New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
紐約郵報	New York Post (newspaper)
紐芬蘭	Newfoundland Island, Canada
紐芬蘭與拉布拉多	Newfoundland and Labrador, province of Canada
紐襻	button loop
紐西蘭	New Zealand (Tw)
紑	bright; glossy (of silk)
紓	abundant; ample; at ease
紓困	to provide financial relief; to bail out (financially)
紓壓	to alleviate stress
紓緩	to relax; relaxed
紓解	to relieve; to ease (pressure); to alleviate
純	pure; simple; unmixed
純利	net profit
純利益	net profit; net gain
純化	to purify
純合子	(genetics) homozygote
純品	sterling
純屬	to be purely; pure and simple; sheer
純度	purity
純情	pure and innocent; a pure heart
純愛	pure love
純文字	text-only (webpage, slide etc)
純文本	(computing) plain text
純棉	pure cotton; 100% cotton
純正	pure; unadulterated; (of motives etc) honest
純水	pure water
純淨	pure; clean; unmixed
純淨水	purified water
純潔	pure; clean and honest; to purify
純熟	skillful; proficient
純牛奶	pure milk
純白	pure white
純真	innocent and unaffected; pure and unadulterated
純真天然	natural; authentic
純真無垢	pure of heart
純種	purebred
純粹	pure; unadulterated; purely
純粹數學	pure mathematics
純素	plain; ordinary; vegan; vegetarian
純素食	vegan; vegan food
純素食主義	veganism, a diet consisting solely of plant products
純素食者	a vegan; person following a vegan diet
純良	pure and kindhearted
純色	pure color; solid color
純色啄花鳥	(bird species of China) plain flowerpecker (Dicaeum minullum)
純色噪鶥	(bird species of China) scaly laughingthrush (Trochalopteron subunicolor)
純色岩燕	(bird species of China) dusky crag martin (Ptyonoprogne concolor)
純藍仙鶲	(bird species of China) pale blue flycatcher (Cyornis unicolor)
純血	pure-blooded
純血統	pure-blood; full-blood
純褐鸌	(bird species of China) Bulwer's petrel (Bulweria bulwerii)
純金	pure gold
純音	pure tone
純音樂	instrumental music
純鹼	sodium carbonate; soda ash; Na2CO3
紕	error; carelessness; spoiled silk
紕漏	careless mistake; slip-up
紕繆	error; mistake
紗	cotton yarn; muslin
紗布	gauze
紗布口罩	gauze mask
紗帽	gauze hat; (fig.) job as an official
紗廠	cotton mill; textile factory
紗支	(textiles) yarn count (unit indicating the fineness of a yarn) (sometimes used loosely to mean thread count)
紗窗	screen window
紗籠	(loanword) sarong
紗綻	spindle
紗線	yarn
紗門	screen door
紗麗	(loanword) sari
紘	cord for hat; vast
紙	paper (CL:張|张[zhang1],沓[da2]); classifier for documents, letters etc
紙上談兵	lit. military tactics on paper (idiom)
紙人	human figure made of paper or papier-mâché
紙人紙馬	paper dolls for ritual use in the shape of people or animals
紙包不住火	the truth will come out eventually; a secret can't be kept forever
紙包飲品	juice box; drink in a carton; Tetra Pak drink
紙品	paper products; stationery
紙團	crumpled paper ball
紙型	paper matrix in which type is set
紙堆	papers; stack of paper
紙夾	paper clip
紙婚	paper wedding (first wedding anniversary)
紙媒	print media; (old) paper taper used to light a cigarette etc
紙尿布	disposable diaper
紙尿片	disposable diaper
紙尿褲	disposable diaper
紙巾	paper towel; napkin; facial tissue
紙帶	paper tape; ticker tape; paper streamer
紙幣	bank notes; paper currency
紙張	paper
紙書	printed book; print book
紙杯	paper cup
紙板	cardboard
紙條	slip of paper
紙樣	paper pattern as model in dressmaking; paper patten
紙漿	paper pulp
紙火柴	matches made of cardboard
紙火鍋	paper hot pot (hot pot using a single-use pot made of Japanese washi paper with a special coating to prevent burning and leaking, used for cooking at the dining table)
紙灰	ash from burnt paper
紙煙	cigarette
紙煤兒	paper taper used to light cigarette etc
紙片	a piece, scrap or fragment of paper
紙片人	extremely thin person; (ACG) 2D character (from anime, manga etc)
紙牌	playing card
紙盆	paper cone used as hailer
紙盒	paperboard box; cardboard box; carton
紙短情長	(idiom) a piece of paper is too short to convey my feelings
紙箔	joss paper
紙箱	carton; cardboard box
紙老虎	paper tiger
紙花	paper flower
紙草	papyrus
紙葉子	deck of playing cards
紙袋	paper bag
紙質	(attributive) paper; hard-copy; printed; paper quality
紙質書	physical book; printed book
紙醉金迷	lit. dazzling with paper and gold (idiom); fig. indulging in a life of luxury
紙鈔	banknote
紙錠	paper ingots (burned as offerings to the dead)
紙錢	ritual money made of paper burnt for the Gods or the dead
紙飛機	paper airplane
紙馬	paper dolls for ritual use in the shape of people or animals
紙魚	silverfish (Lepisma saccarina); fish moth
紙鳶	kite
紙鶴	paper crane
紙鷂	kite
紙黃金	gold contract; special drawing right (SDR); paper gold (finance)
級	level; grade; rank
級別	(military) rank; level; grade
級差	differential (between grades); salary differential
級數	(math.) series
級聯	cascade; cascading
級距	range of values
級長	class president (in a school); class captain; cohort leader
紛	numerous; confused; disorderly
紛亂	numerous and disorderly
紛呈	to appear in profusion; to abound
紛披	scattered; mixed and disorganized
紛擾	turmoil; unrest; disturbance
紛爭	to dispute
紛紛	one after another; in succession; one by one
紛紛揚揚	(idiom) (of leaves etc) fluttering about
紛紜	diverse and muddled; many and confused
紛繁	numerous and complicated
紛至沓來	to come thick and fast (idiom)
紛雜	numerous and confused; in a mess
紛飛	to swirl in the air (of thickly falling snowflakes, flower petals etc)
紜	confused; numerous
紝	to weave; to lay warp for weaving; silk thread for weaving
紝織	to weave
紞	silk fringe of a coronet
紟	a sash; to tie
素	raw silk; white; plain, unadorned
素不相能	unable to get along (idiom)
素不相識	to be total strangers (idiom)
素人	untrained, inexperienced person; layman; amateur
素來	consistently; always (in the past and now)
素常	ordinarily; usually
素手	white hand; empty-handed
素描	sketch
素數	prime number
素日	usually
素昧平生	(idiom) to have never met sb before; entirely unacquainted
素有	to have; to have always had
素未謀面	(idiom) to have never met; to be complete strangers
素材	source material (in literature and art)
素樸	simple; unadorned; unsophisticated
素淨	simple and neat; quiet (colors); unobtrusive
素皮	vegan leather
素筵	vegetarian feast; food offerings to Buddha
素肉	vegetarian meat substitute
素菜	vegetable dish
素質	inner quality; basic essence
素質差	so uneducated!; so ignorant!
素質教育	all-round education (as opposed to exam-oriented education 應試教育|应试教育[ying4 shi4 jiao4 yu4])
素雅	simple yet elegant
素雞	vegetarian chicken, a soybean product
素面	face (of a woman) without makeup; solid color (unpatterned)
素面朝天	lit. to present oneself confidently to the emperor, without makeup (as did the sister of Yang Guifei 楊貴妃|杨贵妃[Yang2 Gui4 fei1]) (idiom)
素顏	a face without makeup
素食	vegetarian food; to eat a vegetarian diet
素食主義	vegetarianism
素食者	vegetarian
素養	(personal) accomplishment; attainment in self-cultivation
素餡	vegetable filling
素麵	vegetable noodle dish
素齋	vegetarian food
紡	to spin (cotton or hemp etc); fine woven silk fabric
紡紗	to spin (cotton, wool etc); spinning
紡絲	to spin synthetic fiber; to spin silk; spinning
紡織	spinning and weaving
紡織品	textile; fabrics
紡織孃	katydid; long-horned grasshopper
紡織工業	textile industry
紡織廠	textile factory; cotton mill
紡織物	textile material
紡車	spinning wheel
紡輪	spinning wheel
紡錘	spindle
索	surname Suo; abbr. for 索馬里|索马里[Suo3 ma3 li3], Somalia
索傑納	Sojourner (Martian land rover)
索價	to ask a price; to charge; asking price
索具裝置	rig
索取	to ask; to demand
索命	to demand sb's life
索國	Somalia; Somaliland; (Tw) Solomon Islands
索多瑪	Sodom
索多瑪與哈摩辣	Sodom and Gomorrah
索契	Sochi (city on the Black Sea in Russia)
索尼	Sony
索帶	cable tie; plastic strap
索引	index
索性	you might as well (do it); simply; just
索普	Thorpe (name)
索求	to seek; to demand
索然	dull; dry
索然寡味	dull and insipid
索然無味	dull; insipid
索爾	Thor (Norse god of thunder)
索爾仁尼琴	Alexandr Solzhenitsyn (1918-2008), Russian writer, prominent Soviet dissident, author of the Gulag Archipelago
索爾茲伯里平原	Salisbury plain
索爾茲伯里石環	Stonehenge; Salisbury stone circle
索福克勒斯	Sophocles (496–406 BC), Greek tragedian, author of Oedipus Rex
索福克里斯	Sophocles (496-406 BC), Greek playwright
索索	trembling
索緒爾	Saussure (name)
索縣	Sog County or Sogxian, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
索羅斯	Soros (name)
索羅門	Solomon (name); Solomon (Islands)
索菲亞	Sofia (capital of Bulgaria)
索要	to ask for; to request; to demand
索解	to seek an answer; to look for an explanation; to explain
索討	to demand; to ask for
索謝	(old) to ask for recompense (for personal services rendered)
索賄	to exact bribes; to solicit bribes; to demand bribes
索賠	to ask for compensation; to claim damages; claim for damages
索道	ropeway
索邦大學	Université Paris IV; the Sorbonne
索里亞	Soria, Spain
索非亞	Sofia, capital of Bulgaria
索馬利亞	(Tw) Somalia
索馬甜	(loanword) thaumatin
索馬里	Somalia
紩	to stitch; to mend
紫	purple; violet
紫丁香	lilac
紫云苗族布依族自治縣	Ziyun Miao and Buyei Autonomous County, in Anshun City 安順市|安顺市[An1 shun4 Shi4], Guizhou
紫嘯鶇	(bird species of China) blue whistling thrush (Myophonus caeruleus)
紫坪鋪	Zipingpu Dam, Sichuan
紫坪鋪大壩	Zipingpu Dam, Sichuan
紫坪鋪水庫	Zipingpu Dam, Sichuan
紫壽帶	(bird species of China) black paradise flycatcher; Japanese paradise flycatcher (Terpsiphone atrocaudata)
紫外	ultraviolet (ray)
紫外光	ultraviolet light
紫外射線	ultraviolet ray
紫外線	ultraviolet ray
紫寬嘴鶇	(bird species of China) purple cochoa (Cochoa purpurea)
紫式部	Murasaki Shikibu (born c. 973), Japanese writer, author of "The Tale of Genji"
紫微宮	palace of Jade emperor (in Taoism)
紫微斗數	Zi Wei Dou Shu, a form of Chinese fortune-telling
紫斑	bruise
紫晶	amethyst (purple crystalline silicon dioxide)
紫杉	Japanese yew (taxus cuspidata)
紫杉醇	Taxol (a.k.a. Paclitaxel), mitotic inhibitor used in cancer chemotherapy
紫林鴿	(bird species of China) pale-capped pigeon (Columba punicea)
紫檀	red sandalwood
紫氣	purple cloud (auspicious portent in astrology)
紫氣東來	(idiom) auspicious omen heralding good fortune
紫水晶	amethyst
紫水雞	(bird species of China) grey-headed swamphen (Porphyrio poliocephalus)
紫河車	(TCM) dried human placenta (used as medicine)
紫甘藍	red cabbage; purple cabbage
紫石英	amethyst
紫石英號	HMS Amethyst, Royal Navy corvette fired on by PLA forces on the Yangtze River in 1949, triggering the Amethyst Incident
紫砂	a type of clay found in the region of Yixing 宜興|宜兴[Yi2 xing1], used to make Yixing stoneware, with its distinctive russet or dark purple coloring
紫砂壺	zisha teapot; Yixing teapot
紫禁城	the Forbidden City; the Imperial Palace in Beijing
紫竹	black bamboo (Phyllostachys nigra)
紫米	black rice; purple rice
紫紅色	red-purple; mauve; prune (color)
紫羅蘭	(botany) common stock; gillyflower (Matthiola incana); (botany) violet
紫羅蘭色	violet (color)
紫翅椋鳥	(bird species of China) common starling (Sturnus vulgaris)
紫背椋鳥	(bird species of China) chestnut-cheeked starling (Agropsar philippensis)
紫背葦鳽	(bird species of China) von Schrenck's bittern (Ixobrychus eurhythmus)
紫脹	to get red and swollen
紫色	purple; violet (color)
紫色花蜜鳥	(bird species of China) purple sunbird (Cinnyris asiaticus)
紫芝眉宇	your appearance (honorific)
紫花地丁	Chinese violet (Viola mandsurica)
紫草	red root gromwell (Lithospermum erythrorhizon)
紫草科	Boraginaceae (family of flowers and bushes)
紫荊	Chinese redbud (Cercis chinensis)
紫菀	(botany) aster (Aster tataricus)
紫菜	edible seaweed of genus Porphyra or genus Pyropia, esp. one used to make dried sheets of nori
紫菜包飯	gimbap, aka kimbap (Korean dish made by rolling up steamed rice and other ingredients in a sheet of nori)
紫菜屬	Porphyra (genus of edible seaweed)
紫菜薹	purple choy sum (Brassica rapa var. purpurea)
紫薇	crape myrtle
紫薯	purple-fleshed sweet potato
紫藤	wisteria
紫蘇	beefsteak plant; shiso; Perilla frutescens
紫蘇屬	genus Perilla (includes basil and mints)
紫袍	purple qipao gown, the sign of an official position
紫貂	sable (Martes zibellina)
紫質症	porphyria (medicine)
紫金山	Purple Mountain in suburbs of Nanjing, with Ming tombs and Sun Yat-sen's mausoleum
紫金山天文台	Purple Mountain Observatory
紫金牛	Japanese ardisia (Ardisia japonica)
紫金縣	Zijin, a county in Heyuan City 河源市[He2 yuan2 Shi4], Guangdong
紫金鵑	(bird species of China) violet cuckoo (Chrysococcyx xanthorhynchus)
紫銅	copper (pure copper, as opposed to alloy)
紫錐花	coneflower genus (Echinacea)
紫陽縣	Ziyang, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
紫雲英	Chinese milk vetch (Astragalus sinicus)
紫頰直嘴太陽鳥	(bird species of China) ruby-cheeked sunbird (Chalcoparia singalensis)
紬	silk
紮	to tie; to bind; classifier for flowers, banknotes etc: bundle
紮寨	to set up an encampment
紮染	to tie-dye
紮營	to camp; to pitch camp; stationed
紮線帶	cable ties; zip ties
紮馬剌丁	Jamal al-Din ibn Muhammad al-Najjari (13th century), famous Persian astronomer and scholar who served Khubilai Khan 忽必烈 from c. 1260
累	to accumulate; to involve or implicate (Taiwan pr. [lei4]); continuous
累加器	accumulator (computing)
累加總數	cumulative total
累及	to involve; to affect
累垮	to collapse; to be worn out; to break down
累壞	to become exhausted
累心	taxing (mentally or emotionally)
累成狗	(Internet slang) to be dog-tired
累死累活	to tire oneself out through overwork; to work oneself to death
累犯	to repeatedly commit an offense; repeat offender; habitual criminal
累積	to accumulate
累積劑量	cumulative dose
累累	(literary) (of fruit, achievements etc) clusters of; piles of; heaps of
累覺不愛	(lit.) so exhausted (by difficulties in a relationship) that one feels one could never fall in love again (Internet slang)
累計	to calculate the running total; cumulative; the total
累贅	superfluous; cumbersome; burdensome; a burden; an encumbrance
累趴	tired to the point of dropping
累進	progressive (taxation etc)
細	thin or slender; finely particulate; thin and soft
細作	(old) spy; secret agent
細分	to divide (into subgroups etc); to break down (into subcategories, subprocesses etc)
細則	detailed rules and regulations; bylaws
細化	to give a more granular level of detail; to elaborate; to refine
細化管理	micromanagement
細嘴短趾百靈	(bird species of China) Hume's short-toed lark (Calandrella acutirostris)
細嘴鷗	(bird species of China) slender-billed gull (Chroicocephalus genei)
細嘴黃鸝	(bird species of China) slender-billed oriole (Oriolus tenuirostris)
細嚼慢嚥	to eat slowly (idiom)
細大不捐	not to discard anything, whether small or big (idiom); all-embracing
細姨	concubine
細嫩	tender
細密	fine (texture); meticulous; careful; detailed
細察	to observe carefully
細小	tiny; fine; minute
細小病毒	parvovirus
細小病毒科	Parvoviridae, a family of animal viruses
細尾獴	meerkat
細微	tiny; minute; fine
細微末節	tiny insignificant details; niceties
細心	meticulous; careful; attentive
細思極恐	scary to think about (coll.) (coined c. 2013)
細挑	slender
細支氣管炎	bronchiolitis
細數	to enumerate; to review (events, experiences etc) in detail
細明體	Mincho narrow font
細枝末節	minor details; trifles
細毛	fuzz; fine fur (of marten etc)
細水長流	lit. thin streams flow forever; fig. economy will get you a long way
細沙	fine sand
細河	Xihe river in Fuxin; Xihe district of Fuxin city 阜新市, Liaoning
細河區	Xihe, a district of Fuxin City 阜新市[Fu4 xin1 Shi4], Liaoning
細潤	fine and glossy
細皮嫩肉	soft skin and tender flesh (idiom); smooth-skinned
細目	detailed listing; specific item
細看	to peer; to scan; to examine carefully
細碎	fragments; bits and pieces
細磨刀石	whetstone (for honing knives)
細究	to look into (a matter)
細節	details; particulars
細粉	powder
細粒	fine grain; fine-grained
細糧	refined grains (esp. white rice and white flour)
細紋噪鶥	(bird species of China) streaked laughingthrush (Trochalopteron lineatum)
細紋葦鶯	(bird species of China) speckled reed warbler (Acrocephalus sorghophilus)
細細	attentive; careful
細細品味	to savor; to relish
細線	string; thread
細緻	delicate; fine; careful
細繩	string; twine; cord
細聲細氣	in a fine voice (idiom); softly spoken
細聽	to listen carefully (for tiny sounds)
細胞	cell (biology)
細胞分裂	cell division
細胞周期	cell cycle
細胞器	organelle
細胞因子	cytokine
細胞培養	cell culture
細胞培養器	cell cultivator
細胞壁	cell wall
細胞外液	extracellular fluid
細胞學	cytology
細胞廣播	(Tw) (telecommunications) cell broadcast
細胞核	nucleus (of cell)
細胞毒	cytotoxin
細胞毒性	cytotoxicity
細胞生物學	cell biology
細胞破碎	(biotechnology) cell disruption
細胞膜	cell membrane
細胞色素	cytochrome
細胞融合	cell fusion
細胞質	cytoplasm
細胞骨架	cytoskeleton (of a cell)
細腰	slender waist; fig. pretty woman; mortise and tenon joint on a coffin
細膩	(of skin etc) smooth; satiny; delicate
細菌	bacterium; germ
細菌性痢疾	bacillary dysentery
細菌戰	biological warfare; germ warfare
細菌武器	biological weapon (using germs)
細菌病毒	bacteriophage; virus that infects bacteria
細菌群	bacterial community (e.g. in the gut)
細葉脈	veinlet in a leaf
細語	to chat with a low voice
細說	to tell in detail
細調	to fine tune
細軟	fine and soft; valuables
細辛	Manchurian wild ginger (family Asarum)
細部	small part (of a whole ensemble); detail
細長	slender
細雨	fine rain; drizzle; poem by Tang poet Li Shangyin 李商隱|李商隐
細頸瓶	jug
細顆粒物	fine particle (PM 2.5); fine particulate matter (air pollution etc)
細香蔥	chive
細鹽	refined salt; table salt
紱	ribbon for a seal; sash
紲	to tie; to bind; to hold on a leash
紳	member of gentry
紳士	gentleman
紵	(literary) cloth made from ramie fiber
紹	to continue; to carry on
紹興市	Shaoxing, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
紹興酒	Shaoxing wine a.k.a. "yellow wine", traditional Chinese wine made from glutinous rice and wheat
紹莫吉州	Somogy, a county in southwest Hungary, capital 考波什堡[Kao3 bo1 shi2 bao3]
紺	violet or purple
紼	heavy rope; rope of a bier
紽	braid on a robe
紾	crooked; obstinate; twist a cord
紿	to cheat; to pretend; to deceive
絀	crimson silk; deficiency; to stitch
絁	rough, indelicate silk
終	end; finish
終久	in the end; eventually
終了	to end
終傅	(Catholicism) extreme unction (the sacrament of Anointing of the Sick)
終其天年	(idiom) to live out one's natural lifespan
終南	Zhongnan mountains, near Xi'an
終南山	Zhongnan Mountains, near Xi'an; also known as the Taiyi Mountains
終南捷徑	lit. the Mount Zhongnan shortcut (idiom)
終場	end (of a performance or sports match)
終場鑼聲	the final bell (esp. in sports competition)
終天	all day long; all one's life
終天之恨	eternal regret
終審	final ruling
終審法院	Court of Final Appeal
終局	endgame; conclusion; outcome
終年	entire year; throughout the year; age at death
終年積雪	permanent snow cover
終成泡影	(idiom) to come to nothing
終戰	end of the war
終於	at last; in the end; finally
終日	all day long
終期	terminal; final
終期癌	terminal cancer
終末	the end; (medicine) final phase; end-stage
終極	ultimate; final
終止	to stop; to terminate
終歸	in the end; ultimately; after all
終毛	(anatomy) terminal hair
終生	throughout one's life; lifetime; lifelong
終生伴侶	lifelong partner or companion
終產物	end product
終究	in the end; after all; eventually
終端	end; terminal
終端機	terminal
終端用戶	end user
終結	end; conclusion; to come to an end; to terminate (sth)
終老	to spend one's last years
終而復始	lit. the end comes back to the start (idiom); the wheel comes full circle
終聲	the final of a Korean syllable (consonant or consonant cluster at the end of the syllable)
終身	lifelong; all one's life; marriage
終身俸	(Tw) pension (for retired military, civil service and teaching personnel)
終身制	life tenure
終身大事	major turning point of lifelong import (esp. marriage)
終身監禁	life sentence
終點	the end; end point; finishing line (in a race)
終點地址	destination address
終點站	terminus; final stop on rail or bus line
終點線	finishing line
絃	bow string; string of musical instrument; watch spring
組	to form; to organize; group
組件	module; unit; component
組分	components; individual parts making up a compound
組合	to assemble; to combine; to compose
組合拳	a combination of punches; (fig.) a set of measures
組合數學	combinatorial mathematics; combinatorics
組合論	combinatorics
組合音響	hi-fi system; stereo sound system; abbr. to 音響|音响[yin1 xiang3]
組員	group member
組圖	picture; image; diagram
組團	to form a group or delegation
組培	tissue culture, esp. plant tissue culture (abbr. for 組織培養|组织培养[zu3 zhi1 pei2 yang3])
組塊	chunk
組委	organizational committee; abbr. for 組織委員會|组织委员会
組委會	organizing committee (abbr. for 組織委員會|组织委员会[zu3 zhi1 wei3 yuan2 hui4])
組字	word formation
組屋	HDB flats; public apartment flats (in Singapore and Malaysia)
組建	to organize; to set up; to establish
組成	to form; to make up; to constitute
組成部分	part; component; ingredient
組曲	suite (music)
組會	group meeting
組氨酸	histidine (His), an essential amino acid
組織	to organize; organization; (biology) tissue
組織培養	tissue culture, esp. plant tissue culture
組織委員會	organizing committee; abbr. to 組委|组委
組織學	histology
組織法	organic law
組織者	organizer
組織胞漿菌病	histoplasmosis
組織胺	histamine
組胺	histamine (a biogenic amine involved in local immune responses)
組裝	to assemble; to put together
組裝廠	assembly plant
組詞	to combine words; word formation
組距	class interval (statistics)
組長	group leader
組閣	to form a cabinet
組隊	to team up (with); to put a team together
絅	monotone garment with no lining
絆	to trip; to stumble; to hinder
絆住	to entangle; to hinder; to impede movement
絆倒	to trip; to stumble
絆腳	to stumble over sth
絆腳石	stumbling block; obstacle; someone who gets in your way
絆跤	to trip; to stumble
絍	to weave; to lay warp for weaving
絎	to quilt
絎縫	to quilt
結	(of a plant) to produce (fruit or seeds); Taiwan pr. [jie2]
結了	that's that; that's it; that will do
結交	to make friends with
結仇	to start a feud; to become enemies
結伴	to go with sb; to form companionships
結伴而行	(of a group) to stay together; to keep together
結冰	to freeze
結出	to bear (fruit)
結匯	foreign exchange settlement
結合	to combine; to link; to integrate
結合律	associative law (xy)z = x(yz) (math.)
結單	statement of account
結夥	to band together; to form a group
結婚	to marry; to get married
結婚生子	to get married and have kids; to start a family
結婚紀念日	wedding anniversary
結婚證	marriage certificate
結子	knot (on a rope or string)
結存	balance; cash in hand
結實	rugged; sturdy; strong
結對子	(of two parties, e.g. police and the community) to team up; to pair up; to form a cooperative association
結尾	ending; coda; to wind up
結局	conclusion; ending; outcome
結巴	to stutter
結幕	final scene (of a play); denouement
結廬	to build one's house
結彩	to adorn; to festoon
結怨	to arouse dislike; to incur hatred
結恭	to be constipated (euphemism)
結成	to form; to forge (alliances etc)
結拜	to become sworn brothers or sisters; sworn (brothers)
結晶	to crystallize; crystallization; crystal
結晶學	crystallography
結晶水	water of crystallization
結晶狀	crystalline
結晶體	a crystal
結末	ending; finally
結束	to end; to finish; to conclude
結束語	concluding remarks
結果	outcome; result; consequence; in the end; as a result
結核	tuberculosis; consumption; nodule
結核桿菌	tubercle bacillus
結核病	tuberculosis
結核菌素	tubercule bacillus
結案	to conclude a case; to wind up
結梁子	(slang) to start a feud; to have a beef
結棍	(Wu dialect) sturdy; robust; formidable
結業	to finish school, esp. a short course; to complete a course
結構	structure; composition; makeup
結構主義	structuralism
結構助詞	structural particle, such as 的[de5], 地[de5], 得[de5] and 所[suo3]
結構式	structural formula (chemistry)
結構性	structural
結構理論	structural theory (physics)
結歡	on friendly terms
結殼	crust; crusting; incrustation
結清	to settle (an account); to square up
結球甘藍	cabbage
結界	(Buddhism) to designate the boundaries of a sacred place within which monks are to be trained; a place so designated
結疤	to form a scar; to form a scab
結痂	scab; to form a scab
結盟	to form an alliance; to ally oneself with; allied with
結石	(medicine) calculus; stone
結社	to form an association
結社自由	(constitutional) freedom of association
結算	to settle a bill; to close an account
結節	nodule; tubercle
結納	to make friends; to form friendship
結紮	to tie up; to bind up; (medicine) to ligate
結結巴巴	stammeringly
結網	to spin a web (spider); to weave a net (e.g. for fishing)
結締組織	connective tissue
結緣	to form ties; to become attached (to sb, sth)
結縭	to marry; to tie the bridal veil
結纓	to die a hero; martyrdom in a good cause
結義	to swear brotherhood
結脈	knotted or slow pulse (TCM)
結腸	colon (large intestine)
結腸炎	colitis (medicine)
結腸鏡	colonoscope
結腸鏡檢查	colonoscopy
結膜	conjunctiva (membrane surrounding the eyeball)
結膜炎	conjunctivitis
結舌	tongue-tied; unable to speak (out of surprise, embarrassment etc)
結草	deep gratitude up to death
結草銜環	to repay sb's kind acts (idiom)
結褵	to marry; to tie the bridal veil
結親	to marry
結訓	to complete the training course (Tw)
結記	to remember; to concern oneself with
結語	concluding remarks
結論	conclusion; verdict; to conclude
結識	to get to know sb; to meet sb for the first time
結賬	to settle accounts; to pay the bill
結連	linked in a chain
結隊	to troop (of soldiers etc); convoy
結霜	to frost up
結餘	balance; cash surplus
結髮	(in former times) to bind one's hair on coming of age
結點	joint; node
結黨	to form a clique
結黨營私	(idiom) to form a clique for self-serving purposes
絓	type of coarse silk; bag used to wrap silk before washing
絕	to cut short; extinct; to disappear
絕不	in no way; not in the least; absolutely not
絕世	unique; exceptional
絕世佳人	a woman of unmatched beauty (idiom)
絕了	(slang) awesome; dope
絕交	to break off relations; to break with sb
絕代	peerless; unmatched in his generation; incomparable (talent, beauty)
絕代佳人	beauty unmatched in her generation (idiom); woman of peerless elegance
絕佳	exceptionally good
絕倒	to split one's sides laughing
絕倫	outstanding; peerless; beyond compare
絕口不提	(idiom) to avoid mentioning
絕句	quatrain (poetic form)
絕命	to commit suicide; to have one's life cut short
絕命書	suicide note
絕品	peerless artwork; absolute gem
絕唱	most perfect song
絕地	danger spot; Jedi (in Star Wars)
絕域	a faraway and hard-to-reach land (classical)
絕境	desperate straits
絕壁	precipice
絕大多數	the vast majority
絕大部分	overwhelming majority
絕妙	exquisite
絕學	(literary) lost or nearly lost body of knowledge
絕密	top secret
絕密文件	top secret document; classified papers
絕對	absolute; unconditional
絕對值	absolute value
絕對地址	absolute address (computing)
絕對多數	absolute majority
絕對大多數	absolute majority
絕對數字	absolute (as opposed to relative) number
絕對權	(law) absolute rights; erga omnes rights
絕對溫度	absolute temperature
絕對濕度	absolute humidity
絕對觀念	absolute idea (in Hegel's philosophy)
絕對連續	absolutely continuous (math.)
絕對零度	absolute zero
絕後	to have no offspring; never to be seen again; unique
絕情	heartless; without regard for others' feelings
絕技	consummate skill; supreme feat; tour-de-force
絕招	unique skill; unexpected tricky move (as a last resort); masterstroke
絕收	(agriculture) to have no harvest (due to flooding, diseases etc)
絕景	stunning scenery
絕望	to despair; to give up all hope; desperate
絕殺	to deal the fatal blow (sports, chess etc); to score the winning point
絕氣	to expire
絕活	specialty; unique skill
絕滅	to annihilate; to exterminate; extinction
絕無僅有	one and only (idiom); rarely seen; unique of its kind
絕然	completely; absolutely
絕熱	to insulate thermally; (physics) adiabatic
絕熱漆	heat-resistant paint
絕版	out of print
絕產	crop failure; property left with no-one to inherit; sterilization
絕症	incurable disease; terminal illness
絕種	extinct (species); extinction
絕筆	words written on one’s deathbed; an artist's final work; swansong
絕糧	provisions are exhausted; out of food
絕絕子	(slang) absolutely amazing
絕經	menopause
絕緣	to have no contact with; to be cut off from; (electricity) to insulate
絕緣體	electrical insulation; heat insulation
絕罰	to excommunicate
絕美	exquisitely beautiful
絕育	to sterilize; to spay
絕色	(of a woman) remarkably beautiful; stunning
絕處逢生	(idiom) to find a way to survive when everything seems hopeless
絕詣	profoundly well-versed
絕讚	amazing; awesome; ultimate
絕跡	to be eradicated; to vanish; extinct
絕逼	(vulgar) absolutely; definitely; for sure
絕配	perfect match
絕門兒	extinct profession; lost trade; unique skill
絕非	absolutely not
絕頂	(lit. and fig.) summit; peak; extremely; utterly
絕頂聰明	highly intelligent; brilliant
絕食	to go on a hunger strike
絕食抗議	hunger strike
絖	fine floss-silk or cotton
絘	ancient tax in the form of bales of cloth
絘布	ancient tax in the form of bales of cloth
絛	braid; cord; sash
絛子	silk ribbon or braid; lace or embroidery used for hemming
絛帶	silk ribbon; silk braid
絛蟲	tapeworm
絛蟲綱	Cestoda (an order of flatworms)
絜	marking line; pure; to regulate
絞	to twist (strands into a thread); to entangle; to wring
絞刀	reamer
絞刑	to execute by hanging
絞刑架	gibbet; hanging post
絞扭	to wring
絞架	gallows; gibbet
絞死	to hang (i.e. execute by hanging); to strangle
絞殺	to kill by strangling, hanging or garrotting; (fig.) to snuff out
絞痛	sharp pain; cramp; griping pain
絞盡腦汁	to rack one's brains
絞盤	capstan
絞索	a noose for hanging criminals
絞縊	to be hanged; to hang oneself
絞肉	minced meat
絞肉機	meat grinder
絞股藍	jiaogulan (Gynostemma pentaphyllum)
絞腦汁	to rack one's brains
絞車	winch; windlass
絡	net-like object; to hold sth in place with a net; to wind
絡繹	continuous; unending
絡繹不絕	(idiom) continuously; in an endless stream
絡腮鬍子	full beard
絢	adorned; swift; gorgeous
絢爛	splendid; gorgeous; dazzling
絢麗	gorgeous; magnificent
絢麗多彩	(idiom) bright and colorful; gorgeous; magnificent
絣	Ikat, a type of woven silk; Kasuri
給	(bound form) to supply; to provide; (literary) sufficient; abundant
給予	(literary) to give; to accord; to render
給事	the name of an official position in the imperial court, aka 給事中|给事中[ji3 shi4 zhong1]
給付	to pay; payment
給以	to give; to grant
給你點顏色看看	(I'll) teach you a lesson; put you in your place
給力	cool; nifty; awesome
給定	to state in advance; preset; given
給排水	water supply and drainage
給水	to supply water; to provide feedwater
給皂器	soap dispenser
給臉	(coll.) to show respect; to give face (esp. in public to avoid embarrassment); (often sarcastic) to treat with basic courtesy (implying the recipient is undeserving)
給臉不要臉	(coll.) to respond with arrogance or disrespect when shown courtesy; to abuse sb's goodwill
給藥	to administer medicine
給面子	to show deference or praise publicly
給養	provisions; supplies; victuals
絨	velvet; woolen
絨布	flannel
絨毛	fur; down (soft fur); villi capillary (in the small intestine)
絨毛性腺激素	human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG)
絨球	pompon
絨線	wool; woolen thread
絨螯蟹	mitten crab (Eriocheir sinensis)
絨額鳾	(bird species of China) velvet-fronted nuthatch (Sitta frontalis)
絪	generative force; magic emanation
絮	cotton wadding; fig. padding; long-winded
絮叨	long-winded; garrulous; to talk endlessly without getting to the point
絮嘴	to chatter endlessly
絮棉	cotton wadding
絮煩	boring prattle
絮片	floccule; a wisp of material precipitated from liquid
絮狀物	floccule; a wisp of material precipitated from liquid
絮球	ball of fluff (containing seeds), e.g. a dandelion clock
絮絮	endless prattle; to chatter incessantly
絮絮叨叨	long-winded; garrulous; to talk endlessly without getting to the point
絮聒	noisy prattle; to chatter loudly
絮語	to chatter incessantly
絮說	to chatter endlessly
絰	hempen band worn on the head or waist by a mourner
統	to gather; to unite; to unify
統一	to unify; to integrate; unified; integrated
統一口徑	to adopt a unified approach to discussing an issue; to sing from the same hymn sheet
統一思想	with the same idea in mind; with a common purpose
統一性	unity
統一戰線	united front
統一戰線工作部	United Front Work Department of CCP Central Committee (UFWD)
統一招生	national unified entrance exam
統一新羅	unified Silla (658-935), Korean kingdom
統一發票	uniform invoice, a standardized government-issued invoice used in Taiwan for recording financial transactions, including purchases and sales, and also serving as a ticket for a lottery program to promote transparency and tax compliance
統一碼	Unicode
統一社會信用代碼	unified social credit identifier, the VAT identification number of a business or organization
統一編號	(Tw) the VAT identification number of a business or organization
統一規劃	integrated program
統一資源定位符	universal resource locator (URL), i.e. webaddress
統一超商	(Tw) President Chain Store Corp., the operator of the 7-Eleven convenience store chain in Taiwan
統一體	whole; single entity
統共	altogether; in total
統制	to control
統合	(Tw) to integrate; integrated
統屬	subordination; line of command
統帥	command; commander-in-chief
統建	to develop as a government project; to construct under the authority of a commission
統御	(literary) to have control over; to rule
統感	feeling of togetherness
統戰	united front (abbr. for 統一戰線|统一战线[tong3 yi1 zhan4 xian4])
統戰部	United Front Work Department of CCP Central Committee (UFWD)
統攝	to command
統攬	to be in overall charge; to have overall control
統治	to rule (a country); to govern; rule
統治力	dominance; supremacy
統治權	sovereignty; dominion; dominance
統治者	ruler
統獨	unification and independence
統率	to command; to direct
統稱	to be collectively called; collective term; general designation
統稱為	collectively known as; to call sth as a group
統管	unified administration
統籌	an overall plan; to plan an entire project as a whole
統籌兼顧	an overall plan taking into account all factors
統統	totally
統編	(Tw) the VAT identification number of a business or organization (abbr. for 統一編號|统一编号[tong3 yi1 bian1 hao4])
統考	unified examination (e.g. across the country)
統艙	common passenger accommodation in the hold of a ship; steerage
統計	statistics; to count; to add up
統計員	statistician
統計學	statistics
統計數據	statistical data
統計結果	statistical results
統計表	statistical table; chart
統讀	standard (unified) pronunciation of a character with multiple readings, as stipulated by the PRC Ministry of Education in 1985
統貨	unified goods
統購	state purchasing monopoly; unified government purchase
統購派購	unified government purchase at fixed price (esp of farm products)
統購統銷	state monopoly of purchasing and marketing
統轄	to govern; to have complete control over; to be in command of
統通	everything
統配	a unified distribution; a unified allocation
統銷	state marketing monopoly
統鋪	a common bed (to sleep many)
統領	to lead; to command; commander
統馭	to control
絲	silk; thread-like thing; (cuisine) shreds or julienne strips
絲光椋鳥	(bird species of China) red-billed starling (Spodiopsar sericeus)
絲印	screen printing (abbr. for 絲網印刷|丝网印刷[si1 wang3 yin4 shua1])
絲囊	spinneret
絲巾	headscarf; kerchief; silk neckband
絲帶	ribbon
絲柏	cypress
絲毫	the slightest amount or degree; a bit
絲毫不差	accurate to perfection (idiom); precise to the finest detail
絲氨酸	serine (Ser), an amino acid
絲滑	(of food, skin, hair etc) silky; smooth
絲狀	thread-like
絲狀物	filament
絲狀病毒	filovirus
絲瓜	luffa; loofah; sponge gourd
絲盤蟲	Trichoplax adhaerens (biology)
絲竹	traditional Chinese musical instruments; music
絲竹管弦	(lit.) string and wind instruments (idiom)
絲米	decimillimeter; 0.0001 meters
絲絛	silk waistband
絲絨	velvet
絲絲小雨	fine drizzle
絲綢	silk (cloth)
絲綢之路	Silk Road
絲綢古路	the ancient Silk Road
絲綢織物	silk fabric
絲網	silk screen; screen (printing)
絲綿	silk floss; down
絲線	silk thread (for sewing); silk yarn (for weaving)
絲縷	silk thread
絲織品	item made from woven silk or rayon
絲織物	woven silk fabric
絲腺	silk gland
絲襪	stockings; pantyhose
絲足	feet and legs in silk stockings (especially in the massage context)
絲路	the Silk Road; abbr. for 絲綢之路|丝绸之路[Si1 chou2 zhi1 Lu4]
絲雨	drizzle; fine rain
絳	capital of the Jin State during the Spring and Autumn Period (770-475 BC)
絳紫	dark reddish purple
絳縣	Jiang County or Jiangxian, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
絹	thin, tough silk fabric
絺	fine fibers of hemp; linen
絻	(old) mourning apparel
絿	urgent; pressing
綀	a kind of sackcloth
綁	to tie; bind or fasten together; to kidnap
綁住	to fasten; to bind
綁匪	kidnapper
綁定	(loanword) binding; to bind (e.g. an account to a mobile phone number)
綁帶	bandage; puttee
綁架	to kidnap; to abduct; to hijack
綁樁	(Tw) to buy off influential people (in an election, a call for tenders etc)
綁標	bid rigging; collusive tendering
綁票	to kidnap (for ransom)
綁紮	to bind; to wrap up; (computing) binding
綁縛	to tie up; to bind; to tether
綁腿	leg wrappings; puttee; gaiters
綁走	to abduct; to kidnap
綁赴市曹	to bind up and take to the market (idiom); to take a prisoner to the town center for execution
綃	raw silk
綅	red silk crest of helmet
綆	(literary) well rope (for drawing water)
綈	coarse greenish black pongee
綌	coarse hempen fabric
綍	heavy rope; ropes of a bier
綎	silk braided cord
綏	to pacify; Taiwan pr. [sui1]
綏中縣	Suizhong, a county in Huludao City 葫蘆島市|葫芦岛市[Hu2 lu2 dao3 Shi4], Liaoning
綏化市	Suihua, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
綏寧縣	Suining, a county in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
綏德縣	Suide, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
綏江縣	Suijiang, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
綏濱縣	Suibin, a county in Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
綏稜縣	Suiling, a county in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
綏芬河	Suifen River, a river in China and Russia that flows into the Sea of Japan
綏芬河市	Suifenhe, a county-level city in Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
綏遠	old name for district of Hohhot city 呼和浩特[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4], Inner Mongolia
綏遠省	former Suiyuan province in Inner Mongolia and Shanxi
綏陽縣	Suiyang, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
綏靖	to pacify; to appease; appeasement
綏靖主義	appeasement
經	classics; sacred book; scripture
經不住	to be unable to bear
經不起	can't stand it; to be unable to bear; to be unable to resist
經不起推究	does not bear examination
經世	statecraft
經久	long-lasting; durable
經久不息	(idiom) prolonged (applause, cheering etc)
經久不衰	unfailing; never-ending
經信委	Economy and Informatization Commission
經停	to stop over (en route)
經偵	economic crime investigation
經傳	classic work (esp. Confucian classics)
經典	the classics; scriptures; classical
經典場論	classical field theory (physics)
經典案例	case study; classic example
經卷	volumes of classics; volumes of scriptures; ancient scrolls
經受	to undergo (hardship); to endure; to withstand
經合組織	Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD
經商	to trade; to carry out commercial activities; in business
經圈	line of longitude; meridian (geography)
經堂	scripture hall (Buddhism)
經學	study of the Confucian classics
經常	frequently; constantly; regularly; often; day-to-day; everyday; daily
經常賬戶	(economics) current account
經幡	Tibetan prayer flag
經幢	Buddhist stone pillar
經年	for years; year after year
經年累月	for years; over the years
經度	longitude
經得起	to be able to withstand; to be able to endure
經手	(lit.) to pass through one's hands; (fig.) to handle; to deal with
經手人	the person in charge; agent; broker
經撞	shock-resistant
經文	scripture; scriptures
經書	classic books in Confucianism; scriptures; sutras
經期	menstrual period
經查	upon investigation
經歷	to experience; to go through; experience (CL:段[duan4],次[ci4])
經氣聚集	meeting points of qi (in Chinese medicine)
經濟	economy; economic
經濟人	Homo economicus
經濟作物	cash crop (economics)
經濟制裁	economic sanctions
經濟前途	economic future; economic outlook
經濟力量	economic strength
經濟危機	economic crisis
經濟合作與發展組織	Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)
經濟問題	economic problem
經濟困境	economic difficulty
經濟基礎	socio-economic base; economic foundation
經濟增加值	Economic value added, EVA
經濟增長	economic growth
經濟增長率	economic growth rate
經濟學	economics (as a field of study)
經濟學人	The Economist (magazine)
經濟學家	economist
經濟學者	economist
經濟安全	economic security
經濟座	economy seat
經濟情況	economic situation; one's socio-economic status
經濟改革	economic reform
經濟有效	cost-effective
經濟活動	economic activity
經濟特區	special economic zone
經濟狀況	economic situation
經濟界	economic circles
經濟發展	economic development
經濟社會及文化權利國際公約	International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR)
經濟艙	economy class
經濟落後	economically backward
經濟蕭條	economic depression
經濟衰退	(economic) recession
經濟週期	economic cycle
經濟體	an economy; a country (or region etc) viewed as an economic entity
經濟體制	economic system
經濟體系	economic system
經營	to engage in (business etc); to run; to operate
經營者	executive; manager; transactor
經營費用	business cost; business expense
經理	manager; director
經由	via
經略	(literary) to plan and administer; to govern and develop
經痛	period pain; menstrual cramps; dysmenorrhea
經穴	acupuncture point (any point on any meridian)
經筵	place where the emperor listened to lectures (traditional)
經管	to be in charge of
經籍	religious text
經紀	to manage (a business); manager; broker
經紀人	broker; middleman; agent
經紗	warp (vertical thread in weaving)
經絡	energy channels; meridian (TCM); (dialect) trick
經絲彩色顯花	warp brocade; woven fabric with single woof but colored warp
經線	warp; line of longitude; meridian (geography)
經緯	warp and woof; longitude and latitude; main points
經緯儀	theodolite
經緯密度	(textiles) thread count
經緯線	lines of latitude and longitude; warp and woof
經脈	channel of TCM
經血	menstruation (TCM)
經行	to perform walking meditation
經費	funds; expenditure
經貿	economy and trade (abbr. for 經濟貿易|经济贸易[jing1 ji4 mao4 yi4])
經辦	to handle; to deal with
經過	to pass; to go through; process
經銷	to sell; to sell on commission; to distribute
經銷商	dealer; seller; distributor
經錦	warp brocade
經閉	amenorrhoea
經驗	experience; to go through; to experience
經驗主義	empiricism
經驗豐富	experienced; with ample experience
綖	cap tassels
綜	(bound form) to synthesize; to combine; Taiwan pr. [zong4]
綜上所述	to summarize; to sum up
綜合	comprehensive; composite; synthesized
綜合報導	summary report; press release; brief
綜合報道	comprehensive report; consolidated report
綜合布線	integrated wiring
綜合徵	syndrome
綜合性	synthesis
綜合敘述	to summarize; a summary
綜合格鬥	mixed martial arts (MMA)
綜合業務數字網	Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) (computing)
綜合法	synthesis; synthetic reasoning
綜合症	syndrome
綜合藝術	composite arts; multimedia arts
綜合館	complex (group of buildings)
綜括	to summarize; to sum up
綜效	synergy
綜析	synthesis
綜理	to be in overall charge; to oversee
綜藝	variety (entertainment format)
綜藝節目	variety show
綜觀	to take a broad view of sth
綜計	grand total; to add everything together
綜述	to sum up; a roundup; a general narrative
綝	(literary) to stop; kindhearted
綠	used in names
綠化	to make green with plants; to reforest; (Internet slang) Islamization
綠化帶	landscaped green strip; planted green belt
綠區	(Baghdad) green zone
綠卡	permanent residency permit (originally referred specifically to the US green card)
綠喉太陽鳥	(bird species of China) green-tailed sunbird (Aethopyga nipalensis)
綠喉蜂虎	(bird species of China) Asian green bee-eater (Merops orientalis)
綠嘴地鵑	(bird species of China) green-billed malkoha (Phaenicophaeus tristis)
綠園區	Luyuan, a district of Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
綠地	green area (e.g. urban park or garden)
綠壩	Green Dam, content-control software, in use during 2009-2010 (abbr. for 綠壩·花季護航|绿坝·花季护航[Lu:4 ba4 · Hua1 ji4 Hu4 hang2])
綠壩·花季護航	Green Dam Youth Escort, Internet content-control software, in use during 2009-2010 (abbr. to 綠壩|绿坝[Lu:4 ba4])
綠女紅男	young people decked out in gorgeous clothes (idiom)
綠孔雀	(bird species of China) green peafowl (Pavo muticus)
綠寬嘴鶇	(bird species of China) green cochoa (Cochoa viridis)
綠寶石	beryl
綠尾虹雉	(bird species of China) Chinese monal (Lophophorus lhuysii)
綠帽子	green hat (figuratively, a symbol of being a cuckold)
綠幕	green screen
綠慘紅愁	(of women) grieved appearance (idiom); sorrowful mien
綠教	(derog.) (slang) Islam
綠旗兵	same as 綠營|绿营[lu:4 ying2], Green standard army, standing infantry during Qing dynasty, originally formed from Ming and other Chinese army units
綠春縣	Lüchun, a county in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
綠松石	turquoise (gemstone)
綠林	place in Hubei, the starting point for a major rebellion at the end of Western Han
綠林好漢	(idiom) chivalrous hero, often one who combats injustice or fights for a noble cause (originally referred to a group of outlaws who assembled in 綠林|绿林[Lu4 lin2])
綠植	green plant
綠樹	trees; greenery
綠樹成蔭	(idiom) (of an area) to have trees with shade-giving foliage; (of a road) to be tree-lined
綠水	green water; crystal-clear water
綠油油	lush green; verdant
綠泡泡	(Internet slang) WeChat; (metonym) WeChat account
綠泥石	chlorite (geology)
綠洲	oasis
綠燈	green light (traffic signal); (fig.) permission to proceed
綠營	Green Standard Army, standing infantry during Qing dynasty, originally formed from Ming and other Chinese army units
綠營兵	Green standard army, standing infantry during Qing dynasty, originally formed from Ming and other Chinese army units
綠玉髓	(mineralogy) chrysoprase
綠瑩瑩	green and lush
綠瑪瑙	chrysoprase (mineral)
綠皇鳩	(bird species of China) green imperial pigeon (Ducula aenea)
綠皮書	green paper (government report proposing policies and inviting discussion)
綠皮車	green train (slow, noisy, unairconditioned train with forest green livery and yellow trim that ran on the Chinese railway system from the 1950s, phased out in the early 21st century)
綠盤	(of a stock price or market index) currently lower than at the previous day's close
綠礬	green vitriol (ferrous sulfate FeSO4:7H2O)
綠箭	Wrigley's Doublemint (brand)
綠綠	(derog.) (slang) Muslim person
綠翅短腳鵯	(bird species of China) mountain bulbul (Ixos mcclellandii)
綠翅金鳩	(bird species of China) common emerald dove (Chalcophaps indica)
綠翅鴨	(bird species of China) Eurasian teal (Anas crecca)
綠肥	green manure
綠背姬鶲	(bird species of China) green-backed flycatcher (Ficedula elisae)
綠背山雀	(bird species of China) green-backed tit (Parus monticolus)
綠背林鶲	(bird species of China) fulvous-chested jungle flycatcher (Rhinomyias olivacea)
綠胸八色鶇	(bird species of China) western hooded pitta (Pitta sordida)
綠腳山鷓鴣	(bird species of China) green-legged partridge (Arborophila chloropus)
綠色	green
綠色和平	Greenpeace (environmental network)
綠色通道	green channel (customs clearance without document or cargo inspection); (by extension) priority processing; fast track
綠色食品	clean, unadulterated food product; organic food
綠花椰菜	broccoli
綠花菜	broccoli
綠苔	green algae
綠茵	grassy area
綠茵場	football field
綠茶	green tea
綠茶婊	(slang) (derog.) a woman who appears innocent or gentle but is actually calculating and manipulative
綠草	green grass
綠草如茵	green grass like cushion (idiom); green meadow so inviting to sleep on
綠菜花	broccoli
綠葉	green leaf; (fig.) actor playing a supporting role
綠葉菜	leafy green vegetable; leafy greens
綠葉蔬菜	leafy green vegetable; leafy greens
綠蔭	the shade (of a tree)
綠藻	green algae; chlorella (dietary supplement)
綠蘿	pothos (Epipremnum aureum)
綠豆	mung bean
綠豆椪	mung bean cake (pastry with a rounded top, containing a sweet or savory filling made with cooked mung beans)
綠赤楊	green alder (Alnus viridis)
綠陰	tree shade; shady
綠雀	oriental greenfinch (Carduelis sinica)
綠頭巾	green turban (figuratively, a symbol of being a cuckold)
綠頭鴨	(bird species of China) mallard (Anas platyrhynchos)
綠鷺	(bird species of China) striated heron (Butorides striata)
綠黨	worldwide green parties
綢	(light) silk
綢子	silk fabric; silk
綢緞	satin; silk fabric
綢繆	to be sentimentally attached to sb or sth
綣	used in 繾綣|缱绻[qian3 quan3]
綥	dark gray; straw sandals
綦	dark gray; superlative; variegated
綦江區	Qijiang, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
綪	dark red color (of silk product)
綬	cord on a seal
綬帶	ribbon (as a decoration)
維	abbr. for Uyghur 維吾爾|维吾尔[Wei2 wu2 er3]; surname Wei
維也納	Vienna, capital of Austria
維京人	Viking
維他命	(loanword) vitamin
維修	maintenance (of equipment); to protect and maintain
維克多·雨果	Victor Hugo (1802-1885), French writer
維克托	Victor (name)
維吉尼亞	Virginia, US state (Tw)
維吉爾	Virgil or Vergilius (70-19 BC), Roman poet and author of the Aeneid 埃涅阿斯紀|埃涅阿斯纪[Ai1 nie4 a1 si1 Ji4]
維吾爾	Uyghur ethnic group
維吾爾人	Uighur person or people
維吾爾族	Uyghur ethnic group
維吾爾語	Uighur language
維和	peacekeeping
維基	wiki (Internet)
維基媒體基金會	Wikimedia Foundation
維基數據	Wikistats, (stats.wikimedia.org), online tool providing statistics for Wikimedia projects
維基物種	Wikispecies, (species.wikimedia.org), online project to catalog all known species
維基百科	Wikipedia (online encyclopedia)
維基解密	WikiLeaks
維基詞典	Wiktionary (online dictionary)
維多利亞	(name) Victoria
維多利亞公園	Victoria Park, Hong Kong
維多利亞女王	Queen Victoria (reigned 1837-1901)
維多利亞島	Victoria Island
維多利亞州	Victoria, southeastern Australian state
維多利亞港	Victoria Harbor, Hong Kong
維多利亞湖	Lake Victoria or Victoria Nyanza, Kenya, on the White Nile
維多利亞瀑布	Victoria Falls or Mosi-oa-Tunya on the Zambesi River, between Zambia and Zimbabwe
維奇	Pope Vigilius (in office 537-555)
維妙維肖	to imitate to perfection; to be remarkably true to life
維密	Victoria's Secret
維尼熊	Winnie the Pooh
維岡	Wigan, town in England
維度	dimension (math.); dimensionality
維德角	Cape Verde (Tw)
維恩圖解	Venn diagram
維拉	Vala (Middle-earth)
維拉港	Port Vila, capital of Vanuatu
維持	to keep; to maintain; to preserve
維持原判	to affirm the original sentence (law)
維持生活	to subsist; to eke out a living; to keep body and soul together
維持費	maintenance costs
維揚	historical name for Yangzhou 揚州|扬州[Yang2 zhou1]
維數	(math.) dimension; dimensionality
維新	(political) reform; revitalization; modernization
維新派	the reformist faction
維新變法	Hundred Days Reform (1898), failed attempt to reform the Qing dynasty
維族	abbr. for 維吾爾族|维吾尔族, Uighur (Uyghur) ethnic group of Xinjiang
維根	(attributive) vegan
維權	to defend (legal) rights
維權人士	civil rights activist
維氏	Victorinox (Swiss knife brand)
維港	Victoria Harbor, Hong Kong
維爾容	(Johannes Lodewikus) Viljoen (South African ambassador to Taiwan)
維爾斯特拉斯	Karl Weierstrass (1815-1897), German mathematician
維爾紐斯	Vilnius, capital of Lithuania
維特	Werther, opera by Jules Massenet; Werther, German masculine given name
維特根斯坦	Wittgenstein (name)
維珍	Virgin (company)
維生	abbr. for 維持生活|维持生活[wei2 chi2 sheng1 huo2]
維生素	vitamin
維穩	to maintain social stability
維管	vascular
維管束	vascular bundle (botany)
維管束植物	vascular plants; tracheophytes (botany)
維管柱	vascular column
維納斯	Venus (mythology, Roman goddess of love)
維維安	(name) Vivian; Vivien; Vivienne
維綸	vinylon, synthetic fiber made from polyvinyl alcohol (loanword)
維繫	to maintain; to keep up; to hold together
維羅納	Verona
維薩	Visa (credit card and payment network)
維西傈僳族自治縣	Weixi Lisu Autonomous County, in Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
維護	to defend; to safeguard; to protect
維護和平	to uphold peace
維達	Vidar (Norse deity)
綮	embroidered banner
綯	bind; cord; twist
綰	bind up; string together
綱	head rope of a fishing net; guiding principle; key link
綱紀	law and order
綱舉目張	if you lift the headrope the meshes spread open (idiom)
綱要	outline; essential points
綱領	program (i.e. plan of action); guiding principle
網	net; web; network; to net; to catch with a net
網上	online
網上廣播	online broadcast; webcast
網下	(of an activity) off-line (not done over the Internet)
網信辦	Cyberspace Administration of China
網傳	(of video clips, rumors etc) to circulate on the Internet
網劇	web series
網卡	network adapter card (computing)
網友	online friend; netizen; Internet user
網吧	Internet café
網咖	Internet café
網售	to sell online
網址	web address; URL
網孔	mesh
網安	cybersecurity (abbr. for 網絡安全|网络安全[wang3 luo4 an1 quan2])
網室	netted enclosure (protecting crops)
網布	(textiles) mesh fabric
網師園	Master of the Nets Garden in Suzhou, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
網店	online shop
網戀	online love affair; cyberdate; Internet dating
網文	online literature, esp. web novels (abbr. for 網絡文學|网络文学[wang3 luo4 wen2 xue2])
網易	NetEase, Chinese internet and online gaming company
網景	Netscape
網暴	to cyberbully (abbr. for 網絡暴力|网络暴力[wang3 luo4 bao4 li4])
網杓	skimmer (kitchen utensil)
網架	rack
網格	grid; mesh; lattice
網格員	community worker employed under China's grid-based governance system, responsible for patrolling neighborhoods, collecting information, mediating disputes and assisting residents
網模	model for online fashion sites etc
網橋	(network) bridge
網段	network segment
網民	netizen; Internet user; online community member
網片	mesh; netting
網版	(printing) screen
網特	anonymous state-sponsored Internet commentator (abbr. for 網絡特工|网络特工[wang3 luo4 te4 gong1])
網狀泡沫	reticulated foam
網狀脈	netted veins; reticulated veins (of a leaf etc); stockwork (geology)
網球	tennis; tennis ball
網球場	tennis court
網球賽	tennis match; tennis competition
網癮	Internet addiction; net addiction; web addiction
網盤	online storage space; cloud file storage
網目	mesh
網眼	mesh
網禁	Internet censorship
網站	website
網站導覽	(Tw) website sitemap
網管	network management; webmaster
網管員	network manager; network administrator
網管接口	network management interface
網箱	net cage (fish farming)
網約車	app-based taxi
網紅	Internet celebrity; influencer; (attributive) popular on the Internet
網絡	network; Internet
網絡俚語	Internet slang; netspeak; cyberspeak
網絡協議	network protocol
網絡地址轉換	(computing) network address translation
網絡安全	cybersecurity
網絡客	online customer
網絡層	network layer
網絡層協議	network layer protocol
網絡廣告	online advertising
網絡應用	network application
網絡成癮	Internet addiction; net addiction; web addiction
網絡技術	network technology
網絡操作系統	network operating system
網絡日記	blog; weblog; same as 博客[bo2 ke4]
網絡欺詐	phishing
網絡水軍	"Internet Navy"; paid Internet posters; astroturfers
網絡瀏覽器	network browser; Internet browser
網絡特工	anonymous state-sponsored Internet commentator
網絡環境	network environment
網絡科技	network technology
網絡空間	cyberspace
網絡管理	network management
網絡管理員	network administrator
網絡管理系統	network management system; NMS
網絡紅人	Internet celebrity
網絡色情	online pornography
網絡規劃人員	network planner
網絡設備	network equipment
網絡設計	network design; network plan
網絡語言	Internet slang; netspeak; cyberspeak
網絡語音	VoIP (Voice over IP) (computing)
網絡遷移	network migration
網綜	online variety show (abbr. for 網絡綜藝節目|网络综艺节目[wang3 luo4 zong1 yi4 jie2 mu4])
網罟	net used to catch fish (or birds etc)
網罟座	Reticulum (constellation)
網羅	net for fishing or bird catching; (fig.) fetters
網膜	retina (anatomy)
網蝽	lace bug; Tingidae
網蟲	Internet addict
網袋	string bag; mesh bag; net bag
網襪	fishnet stockings
網誌	blog; weblog; same as 博客[bo2 ke4]
網語	Internet slang; netspeak; cyberspeak
網課	online classes
網警	Internet police (abbr. for 網絡警察|网络警察[wang3 luo4 jing3 cha2])
網貸	(finance) online lending (or borrowing)
網賺	to make money online
網購	Internet shopping; to purchase online
網路	(Tw) network; (Tw) Internet
網路作業系統	network operating system
網路平台	network platform
網路應用	(Tw) web application
網路服務	network service
網路架構	(Tw) network architecture
網路特務	anonymous state-sponsored Internet commentator
網路環境	network environment
網路節點	network node
網路節點介面	network node interface
網路鏈接層	network link layer
網軍	internet troll army; online propaganda army
網通	China Netcom (CNC), former telecommunication service provider in PRC
網速	internet speed; network speed
網遊	online game (abbr. for 網絡遊戲|网络游戏[wang3 luo4 you2 xi4])
網銀	online banking; abbr. for 網上銀行|网上银行[wang3 shang4 yin2 hang2]
網開一面	open the net on one side (idiom); let the caged bird fly
網開三面	to leave the net open on three sides (idiom); let the caged bird fly
網關	network router; gateway (to Internet or between networks)
網際	Internet; net; cyber-
網際協定	Internet protocol; IP
網際網絡	Internet
網際網路	(Tw) Internet
網頁	web page
網頁地址	webaddress; URL
網頁設計	web design
網飛	Netflix, American entertainment company
網點	branch; service outlet (of a bank, retail store etc)
綴	to sew; to stitch together; to combine
綴合	to compose; to put together
綴字	to spell; to compose words
綴文	to compose an essay
綴飾	to decorate; decoration
綷	five-color silk
綷縩	(onom.) sound of friction of fabric
綸	to classify; to twist silk; silk thread
綹	skein; tuft; lock
綺	beautiful; open-work silk
綺井	ceiling (architecture)
綺夢	pleasant and romantic dream
綺室	magnificent room
綺年	young; youthful
綺思	beautiful thoughts (in writing)
綺想	fantasies; imaginings
綺想曲	capriccio (music)
綺歲	youthful age
綺燦	enchanting; gorgeous
綺窗	beautifully decorated window
綺筵	magnificent feast
綺繡	silk material with grained pattern
綺羅	beautiful silk fabrics; person in beautiful silk dress
綺色佳	Ithaca, New York, location of Cornell University 康奈爾大學|康奈尔大学[Kang1 nai4 er3 Da4 xue2]
綺衣	beautiful clothes
綺語	flowery writing; writing concerning love and sex
綺貌	beautiful appearance
綺陌	splendid streets
綺雲	beautiful clouds
綺靡	beautiful and intricate; ornate; gorgeous
綺麗	beautiful; enchanting
綻	to burst open; to split at the seam
綻放	to blossom
綻破	to burst; to split
綻線	to have a ripped seam
綻裂	to split open; to split apart
綻開	to burst forth
綻露	to appear (formal)
綽	(bound form) ample; spacious; (literary) graceful
綽名	nickname
綽約	(literary) graceful; charming
綽綽有餘	(idiom) more than enough
綽號	nickname
綾	damask; thin silk
綾羅綢緞	(idiom) silk and satin
綿	silk floss; continuous; soft
綿亙	to stretch in an unbroken chain (esp. of mountains)
綿力	one's limited power (humble expr.)
綿子	(dial.) silk floss
綿密	detailed; meticulous; fine and careful
綿延	(esp. of a mountain range) to be continuous; to stretch long and unbroken
綿惙	critically ill
綿白糖	sugar powder
綿竹市	Mianzhu, a county-level city in Deyang City 德陽市|德阳市[De2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
綿綢	rough-textured fabric of waste silk
綿綿	continuous; uninterrupted
綿綿不絕	continuous; endless
綿綿瓜瓞	(lit.) (of a melon vine) laden with melons of all sizes (idiom)
綿羊	sheep
綿薄	my humble effort; my meager contribution (humble)
綿裡藏針	lit. a needle concealed in silk floss (idiom)
綿連	continuous; uninterrupted
綿遠	remote
綿邈	far back in time; faraway; remote
綿長	long and continuous (coastline, sound etc); extensive; prolonged
綿陽市	Mianyang, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
緁	to join; to splice; to braid
緄	cord; embroidered sash; to sew
緄邊	(of a dress etc) border, edging
緅	purple silk
緆	fine gunny; sackcloth
緇	Buddhists; black silk; dark
緊	tight; strict; close at hand
緊俏	(merchandise) in high demand
緊咬不放	(idiom) unwilling to let go; like a dog with a bone; dogged
緊密	inseparably close
緊密相聯	closely interrelated; intimately related
緊密織物	closely woven fabric
緊密配合	to coordinate closely; to act in close partnership with
緊實	tight; firm; dense
緊巴	tight (i.e. lacking money); hard up; same as 緊巴巴|紧巴巴
緊巴巴	tight fitting; hard up (i.e. lacking money)
緊張	nervous; keyed up; intense
緊張狀態	tense situation; standoff
緊張緩和	detente
緊急	urgent; emergency
緊急事件	emergency
緊急應變	emergency management
緊急狀態	state of emergency
緊急疏散	emergency evacuation
緊急醫療	emergency medical care
緊扣	to stick closely to (a topic or theme etc)
緊抱	to hug; to embrace
緊接	to follow immediately afterwards; immediately adjacent
緊接著	immediately afterwards; shortly after that
緊握	to hold firmly, not let go
緊擠	to pinch; to squeeze tightly
緊湊	compact; terse; tight (schedule)
緊湊型車	compact car model
緊湊渺子線圈	Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS)
緊盯	to gaze; to stare fixedly
緊箍咒	the Band-tightening Spell (in 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4])
緊絀	supply shortage
緊緊	closely; tightly
緊縮	(economics) to reduce; to curtail; to cut back
緊繃	to stretch taut; (of muscles etc) taut; strained; tense
緊繃繃	tight; stretched; (face, lips) taut; strained
緊缺	in short supply; scarce
緊裹	to wrap tightly; to wind tightly; to bind
緊要	critical; crucial; vital
緊要關頭	urgent and important moment (idiom); critical juncture
緊貼	to stick close to; to press up against
緊跟	to follow precisely; to comply with
緊身	skintight
緊迫	pressing; urgent
緊迫盯人	(sports) to closely guard an opponent
緊追	to pursue closely
緊逼	to press hard; to close in on
緊鄰	to be right next to; close neighbor
緊鑼密鼓	(lit.) urgent beating of gongs and drums (idiom)
緊閉	to close securely; tightly closed; secure
緊隨其後	to follow closely behind sb or sth (idiom)
緊集	compact set
緊靠	to be right next to; to lean closely against
緋	dark red; purple silk
緋紅	crimson; scarlet
緋聞	sex scandal
緋胸鸚鵡	(bird species of China) red-breasted parakeet (Psittacula alexandri)
緌	strings of cap
緎	seam
緒	beginnings; clues; mental state
緒論	introduction; introductory chapter
緔	to sole a shoe
緗	light yellow color
緘	letters; to close; to seal
緘默	to keep silent
緙	used in 緙絲|缂丝[ke4 si1]
緙絲	kesi or k’o-ssu, Chinese silk tapestry woven in a pictorial design
線	thread; string; wire
線上	online
線上查詢	online search
線下	offline; below the line
線人	spy; informer
線圈	coil (of wire)
線圖	line drawing; diagram; line graph
線團	ball of string
線報	tip-off
線尾燕	(bird species of China) wire-tailed swallow (Hirundo smithii)
線形圖	line chart
線性	linear; linearity
線性代數	linear algebra
線性回歸	linear regression (statistics)
線性圖	line chart
線性方程	linear equation (math.)
線性波	linear wave
線性空間	(math.) vector space; linear space
線性算子	linear operator (math.)
線性系統	linear system
線性規劃	linear programming
線桿	telephone pole; utility pole
線條	line (in drawing, calligraphy etc)
線段	line segment
線狀	linear
線程	(computing) thread
線粒體	mitochondrion
線索	trail; clues; thread (of a story)
線繩	cotton rope; cord
線纜	cable; wire; cord (computer)
線腳	seam; stitching
線蟲	nematode
線路	(electricity) line; circuit; wire; (traffic) road; track; route
線軸	thread spool
線速度	linear velocity
線鋸	fret saw; jigsaw
線香	incense stick
緛	(archaic) to shorten
緜	cotton
緝	to seize; to arrest; Taiwan pr. [qi4]
緝拿	to arrest; to seize
緝捕	to seize; to apprehend; an arrest
緝查	to carry out enforcement checks (for illegal activity)
緝毒	to counter narcotics trafficking; drug enforcement
緝毒犬	drug detector dog; sniffer dog
緝獲	to arrest; to apprehend
緝私	to suppress smugglers; to search for smuggled goods
緝訪	to search and enquire
緞	satin
緞子	satin
緞布	satin
緞帶	ribbon
緞紋織	satin weave
緞織	satin weave
締	(archaic) to bind up inextricably
締約	to conclude a treaty
締約國	signatory states; countries that are party to a treaty
締約方	party in a contract, treaty etc
締結	to conclude (an agreement)
締造	to found; to create
締造者	creator (of a great work); founder
緡	cord; fishing-line; string of coins
緣	cause; reason; karma
緣何	(literary) why?; for what reason?
緣分	fate or chance that brings people together
緣故	reason; cause
緣於	to originate from; to come from the fact that; owing to
緣木求魚	lit. climb a tree to catch a fish (idiom); fig. to attempt the impossible
緣由	reason; cause
緣起	to originate; origin; genesis; account of the origins of an endeavor
緣飾	fringe
緤	to tie; to bind
緦	fine linen
編	to weave; to plait; to organize
編修	to compile and edit
編入	to include (in a list etc); to assign (to a class, a work unit etc)
編列	to arrange in order; to compile; to prepare (a budget, project etc)
編制	to establish (a unit or department)
編劇	to write a play; scenario; dramatist
編務	editing
編印	to compile and print; to publish
編審	to copy-edit; copy editor
編寫	to compile
編導	to write and direct (a play, film etc); playwright-director
編年史	annals; chronicle
編年體	in the style of annals
編成	to organize; to put together; to edit
編排	to arrange; to lay out
編撰	to compile; to edit
編曲	to compose (music); arrangement
編次	to arrange things in sequence; sequence in which things are arranged
編班	to group students into classes
編班考試	placement test
編目	to make a catalogue; catalogue; list
編碼	to code; to encode; code
編碼器	encoder
編磬	musical instrument consisting of a set of chime stones suspended from a beam and struck as a xylophone
編程	(computing) to program; programming
編組	to organize into groups; marshalling
編結	to weave; to plait
編織	to weave; to knit; to plait; to braid
編織品	woven fabric
編纂	to compile (an encyclopedia etc)
編者	editor; compiler
編者按	editor's commentary
編舞	choreography; choreographer
編著	to compile; to write
編號	to number; to assign numbers; serial number
編製	to weave; to plait
編註	editor's note
編譯	to translate and edit; translator-editor
編譯器	compiler
編譯家	translator and editor
編輯	to edit; to compile; editor
編輯器	editor (software)
編輯室	editorial office; newsroom
編輯家	editor; compiler
編造	to compile; to draw up; to fabricate
編遣	to reorganize (troops etc) and discharge surplus personnel
編選	to select and edit; to compile
編錄	to select and edict; to edit extracts
編鐘	set of bells (old Chinese music instrument)
編隊	to form into columns; to organize into teams
緩	slow; unhurried; sluggish
緩不濟急	lit. slow no aid to urgent (idiom); slow measures will not address a critical situation
緩兵之計	delaying tactics; stalling; measures to stave off an attack; stratagem to win a respite
緩刑	suspended sentence; probation
緩動	sluggish
緩和	to ease (tension); to alleviate; to moderate
緩存	(computing) cache; buffer memory
緩徵	to suspend taxes momentarily; to postpone military draft
緩急	priority; whether sth is urgent
緩急相濟	to help one another in difficulty; mutual assistance in extremity
緩慢	slow; unhurried; sluggish
緩期	to defer; to put off (until later); to postpone
緩期付款	to defer payment
緩步	to walk slowly; to amble along; gradually
緩氣	to get one's breath back; to take a breather
緩發中子	delayed neutron
緩緩	slowly; unhurriedly; little by little
緩聘	to defer employment; to put off hiring
緩衝	buffer; to cushion; to adjust to sharp changes
緩衝器	buffer (computing)
緩解	to bring relief; to alleviate (a crisis); to dull (a pain)
緩辦	to postpone; to delay
緩釋肥	slow-release fertilizer
緩降	to decrease gradually; to descend gradually
緩降器	cable reel and harness used to lower oneself to safety (e.g. from a building on fire)
緩頰	to urge reconciliation; to dissuade from punitive action
緪	a rope
緬	Myanmar (formerly Burma) (abbr. for 緬甸|缅甸[Mian3 dian4])
緬元	kyat (currency of Myanmar)
緬因	Maine, US state
緬懷	to commemorate; to recall fondly; to think of the past
緬文	Burmese (language, esp. written)
緬甸	Myanmar (or Burma)
緬甸聯邦	Union of Myanmar, official name of Burma 1998-2010
緬甸語	Burmese (language of Myanmar)
緬邈	far; remote
緯	latitude; woof (horizontal thread in weaving); weft
緯圈	line of latitude; parallel
緯度	latitude
緯紗	woof (horizontal thread in weaving); weft
緯線	woof; line of latitude; parallel
緯線圈	line of latitude; parallel
緯錦	woof brocade; woven fabric with many-colored woof
緰	net
緱	rope attached to a sword hilt; (archaic) hilt; sword
緲	used in 縹緲|缥缈[piao1 miao3]
練	to practice; to train; to drill
練兵	to drill troops; army training
練功	to do tai chi; to practice kung-fu (or other martial art)
練字	to practice writing characters
練就	to master (a skill)
練手	to practice a skill
練攤	(dialect) to run a street stall
練習	to practice; exercise; drill
練習冊	exercise booklet
練習場	driving range (golf); practice court; practice ground
練習本	exercise book; workbook
練習生	(dated, except in Taiwan) trainee; apprentice; probationary employee
練達	experienced; sophisticated; worldly-wise
緶	braid
緹	orange-red silk; orange-red colored
緻	(bound form) fine; delicate; exquisite
緻密	fine; dense; compact
縃	fine silk
縈	(literary) to wind around
縈繞	to linger on; to hover; to encircle
縈迴	to linger; to swirl around (in the air, in one's mind etc)
縉	red silk
縉雲縣	Jinyun, a county in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
縊	(literary) to die by hanging or strangulation
縊死	to execute by hanging; to hang oneself
縊殺	to strangle to death
縊頸	to hang oneself
縋	to let down with a rope
縏	small bag; sack
縐	crepe; wrinkle
縑	thick waterproof silk
縕	orange color; used in 絪縕|𬘡缊[yin1 yun1]
縗	mourning garments of coarse hemp
縚	braid; cord; sash
縛	to bind; to tie; Taiwan pr. [fu2]
縛手縛腳	(idiom) to be bound by too many restrictions
縛雞之力	(lit.) the strength to truss a chicken (idiom)
縝	fine and dense
縝匝	dense; fine (texture)
縝密	meticulous; careful; deliberate
縝潤	fine and smooth
縞	plain white silk
縞瑪瑙	onyx; white agate
縞素	white silk mourning dress
縟	adorned; beautiful
縠	fine silk gauze
縡	matter; affair
縢	bind; cord; tie up
縣	county; (Japan) prefecture
縣令	county magistrate (during Tang to Qing times)
縣名	name of county
縣地	county seat; county town
縣城	county seat; county town
縣域	county
縣委	CCP county committee
縣官	district magistrate; county magistrate
縣府	county government
縣志	general history of a county; county annals
縣政府	county administration; county regional government
縣界	county border; county line
縣級	county level
縣級市	county-level city (administrative division in China)
縣長	county's head commissioner
縫	seam; crack; narrow slit
縫合	to sew together; suture (in surgery); to sew up (a wound)
縫合帶	suture zone (geology)
縫子	crack; chink; narrow slit
縫窮	to sew and mend clothes for a pittance
縫紉	to sew
縫紉機	sewing machine
縫絍	to sew; to stitch
縫綴	to patch together; to mend
縫線	sewing thread; suture
縫縫連連	needlework; sewing and mending
縫衣匠	tailor
縫衣工人	needleworker
縫衣針	sewing needle
縫補	to darn (clothing); to sew and mend
縫製	to sew; to make (clothes, bedding)
縫針	to stitch fabric; (medicine) to sew up a wound or incision
縫針跡	seam
縫隙	small crack; chink
縭	bridal veil or kerchief
縮	to withdraw; to pull back; to contract
縮印	to reprint (a book etc) in a smaller format
縮印本	compact edition (of a dictionary etc)
縮卵	(slang) to chicken out; to wimp out
縮寫	abbreviation; to abridge
縮小	to reduce; to decrease; to shrink
縮小模型	miniature
縮影	miniature version of sth; microcosm; epitome
縮微平片	microfiche
縮成	to shrink into
縮成一團	to huddle together; to curl up
縮手縮腳	bound hand and foot (idiom); constrained
縮排	(typesetting) to indent
縮放	scaling; resizing; zoom (graphics)
縮時攝影	time-lapse photography
縮格	(typesetting) to indent
縮氨酸	peptide (two or more amino acids linked by peptide bonds CO-NH)
縮水	to shrink (in the wash); fig. to shrink (of profits etc)
縮減	to cut; to reduce
縮略	to contract; to abbreviate; abbreviation
縮略圖	thumbnail (computing)
縮略字	abbreviated character
縮略語	abbreviated word; acronym
縮短	to shorten; to reduce; to curtail
縮稱	abbreviation; short form
縮約	contraction (in grammar); abbreviation
縮緊	to tighten; to contract; to shrink in
縮編	to downsize (an organization, military unit etc)
縮胸	breast reduction; reduction mammaplasty
縮衣節食	to economize on clothes and food; to scrimp and save (idiom)
縮表	to reduce the balance sheet
縮語	abbreviated word; acronym
縮進	to retreat into; to draw back into; (typography) to indent
縮陰	to make the vagina tighter
縮頭烏龜	a turtle that pulls its head in; (fig.) coward; chicken
縯	long
縰	band for the hair
縱	vertical; north-south (Taiwan pr. [zong1])
縱享	to enjoy; to indulge in
縱令	to indulge; to give free rein; even if
縱使	even if; even though
縱剖面	vertical section; longitudinal section
縱向	longitudinal; vertical
縱容	to tolerate or condone wrongdoing; to allow (sb) to engage in bad behavior
縱座標	vertical coordinate; ordinate
縱情	to your heart's content
縱意	willfully; wantonly
縱慾	to indulge in debauchery
縱搖	pitching motion (of a boat)
縱放	undisciplined; untrammeled; to indulge
縱斷面	vertical section; longitudinal section
縱梁	longitudinal beam
縱橫	lit. warp and weft in weaving; vertically and horizontal
縱橫交錯	criss-crossed (idiom)
縱橫字謎	crossword
縱橫家	School of Diplomacy of the Warring States Period (475-221 BC) whose leading advocates were Su Qin 蘇秦|苏秦[Su1 Qin2] and Zhang Yi 張儀|张仪[Zhang4 Yi2]
縱橫馳騁	to criss-cross; to run unhindered across the whole country
縱步	to stride; to bound
縱波	longitudinal wave
縱深	depth (from front to rear); depth (into a territory); span (of time)
縱火	to set on fire; to commit arson
縱火犯	arsonist
縱然	even if; even though
縱目	as far as the eye can see
縱紋	stria longitudinalis (in the brain)
縱紋綠鵯	(bird species of China) striated bulbul (Alcurus striatus)
縱紋腹小鴞	(bird species of China) little owl (Athene noctua)
縱紋角鴞	(bird species of China) pallid scops owl (Otus brucei)
縱線	vertical line; vertical coordinate line
縱聲	loudly; in a loud voice
縱肌	longitudinal muscle
縱虎歸山	lit. to let the tiger return to the mountain; fig. to store up future calamities
縱裂	lobe; longitudinal slit; vertical fracture
縱覽	panoramic view; wide survey
縱觀	to survey comprehensively; an overall survey
縱言	to theorize generally
縱談	to talk freely
縱論	to talk freely
縱貫	lit. warp string in weaving; fig. vertical or north-south lines
縱跳	(sports) vertical jump
縱身	to leap; to spring; to throw oneself
縱酒	to drink excessively
縱隊	column; file (formation of people) (CL:列[lie4],路[lu4])
縱隔	mediastinum (organs and tissues in the thorax between the lungs)
縲	(literary) thick rope used to restrain a prisoner
縳	to tie up
縴	boatman's tow-rope
縴夫	burlak (barge hauler)
縴手	boat tracker; boat puller; broker; middleman
縴道	towpath (along a canal)
縵	plain thin silk; slow; unadorned
縶	to connect; to tie up
縷	strand; thread; detailed
縷述	to relate in detail
縹	(literary) light blue; (literary) light blue silk fabric
縹囊	book bag made of silk
縻	to tie up
總	(bound form) general; overall; to sum up
總主教	archbishop; primate (of a church); metropolitan
總之	in a word; in short; in brief
總人口	total population
總供給	aggregate supply
總值	total value
總價	total price
總公司	parent company; head office
總共	altogether; in sum; in all; in total
總分	overall score; total points
總則	general rules; general principles; general provisions
總動員	general mobilization (for war etc)
總務	general matters; division of general affairs; person in overall charge
總匯	(of streams) to come together; to converge
總匯三明治	(Tw) club sandwich
總卵黃管	(flatworm anatomy) common vitelline duct, formed by the union of vitelline ducts and entering the ootype
總參謀部	(military) General Staff Headquarters
總參謀長	(military) Chief of Staff
總台	front desk; reception desk
總司令	commander-in-chief
總司令部	general headquarters
總合	to collect together; to add up; altogether
總和	sum
總噸位	overall tonnage (of a shipping fleet or company)
總回報	total return; aggregate profit
總局	head office; general office; central office
總平面圖	general layout; site plan
總幹事	secretary-general
總後勤部	(military) General Logistics Department
總得	must; have to; be bound to
總成本	total costs
總括	to sum up; all-inclusive
總指揮部	general headquarters
總攬	to assume full responsibility; to be in full control; to monopolize
總收入	gross income
總收益	total profit; aggregate return
總政治部	(military) General Political Department
總數	total; sum; aggregate
總方針	general policy; overall guidelines
總是	always
總書記	general secretary (of the Communist Party)
總會三明治	(Tw) club sandwich (variant of 總匯三明治|总汇三明治[zong3 hui4 san1 ming2 zhi4])
總會會長	president of the association
總有	inevitably there will be
總桿賽	stroke play (golf)
總機	central exchange; telephone exchange; switchboard
總次數	total number of times
總歸	in any case; anyhow; after all
總決賽	finals (sports)
總法律顧問	general counsel
總熱值	gross calorific value
總理	premier; prime minister
總理衙門	the Qing dynasty equivalent of the Foreign Office
總產值	gross product; total output
總產量	total output
總的來說	generally speaking; to sum up; in summary
總監	head; director (of an organizational unit); (police) commissioner
總目	superorder (taxonomy); catalog; table of contents
總督	governor-general; viceroy; governor
總社	head office; headquarters
總稱	generic term
總站	terminus
總算	at long last; finally; on the whole
總管	to be in charge of (a major area of responsibility)
總管理處	headquarters; main administrative office
總結	to sum up; to conclude; summary
總統	president (of a country)
總統任期	presidential term of office; presidency
總統制	presidential system
總統大選	presidential election
總統府	presidential palace
總統選舉	presidential election
總經理	general manager; CEO
總線	computer bus
總編	chief editor (of newspaper); abbr. for 總編輯|总编辑
總編輯	chief editor (of newspaper)
總署	general office
總而言之	in short; in a word; in brief
總能	total energy
總裁	chairman; director-general (of a company etc)
總裝	to assemble (the finished product); final assembly
總裝備部	General Armaments Department (GAD)
總要	nevertheless
總覽	a general overview
總角	(literary) children's hairstyle with hair tied into a bun on both sides of the head; (fig.) childhood
總角之交	(idiom) childhood friend
總角之好	(idiom) childhood friend
總計	(grand) total
總論	(often used in book or chapter titles) general introduction; overview
總諧波失真	(acoustics) total harmonic distortion (THD)
總譜	musical score
總述	overview; to give an overview
總運單	master air waybill (MAWB) (transport)
總部	headquarters
總醫院	general hospital
總重	gross weight; total weight
總量	total; overall amount
總長	name used for cabinet ministers between 1912-1927, superseded by 部長|部长[bu4 zhang3]
總開關	main switch
總集	general collection; anthology
總需求	aggregate demand
總領事	consul general
總領事館	consulate general
總領館	consulate general; same as 總領事館|总领事馆[zong3 ling3 shi4 guan3]
總額	total (amount or value)
總體	completely; totally; total
總體上說	looking at the big picture; all in all; all things considered
總體目標	overall target; overall objective
總體經濟學	(Tw) macroeconomics
總體規劃	overall plan; master plan
績	to spin (hemp etc); merit; accomplishment
績優股	gilt-edged stock; blue chip stock
績效	performance; results; achievement
績溪縣	Jixi, a county in Xuancheng City 宣城市[Xuan1 cheng2 Shi4], Anhui
績點	(education) grade point
縿	fringe; ornament of banner
繁	complicated; many; in great numbers
繁博	numerous and wide-ranging
繁多	many and varied; of many different kinds
繁密	numerous and close together; (of hair) luxuriant; (of woods) dense
繁峙縣	Fanshi, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
繁徵博引	an elaborate string of references; many quotations
繁忙	busy; bustling
繁文	convoluted; elaborate formalities
繁文縟節	convoluted and overelaborate (document)
繁昌區	Fanchang, a district of Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
繁星	many stars; a vast sky full of stars
繁本	detailed edition; unexpurgated version
繁榮	prosperous; booming
繁榮昌盛	glorious and flourishing (idiom); thriving
繁殖	to breed; to reproduce; to propagate
繁殖體	(biology) propagule
繁瑣	many and complicated; mired in minor details
繁盛	prosperous; thriving; (of vegetation) luxuriant
繁簡	complicated and simple
繁縟	many and elaborate
繁縷	common chickweed (Stellaria media)
繁育	to breed
繁花	flourishing blossom; a mass of flowers; luxuriant flowers
繁茂	(of vegetation) lush; luxuriant
繁華	flourishing; bustling
繁蕪	wordy; verbose; flourishing and thriving
繁衍	to multiply; to reproduce; to increase gradually in number or quantity
繁複	complicated
繁重	heavy; burdensome; heavy-duty
繁雜	many; diverse
繁體	traditional form of Chinese, as opposed to simplified form 簡體|简体[jian3 ti3]
繁體字	traditional Chinese character
繁鬧	bustling
繃	to draw tight; to stretch taut; to tack (with thread or pin)
繃不住	(Internet slang) can't contain oneself; unable to bear
繃子	embroidery frame; hoop; tambour
繃帶	(loanword) bandage
繃簧	spring
繃緊	to stretch taut
繃著臉	to have a taut face; to pull a long face; to look displeased
繄	interj.; sighing sound
繅	to reel silk from cocoons
繆	used in 綢繆|绸缪[chou2 mou2]
繆巧	plan; scheme; intelligent
繆斯	Muse (Greek mythology)
繇	interpretations of the trigrams
繐	fine and loose cloth; tassel
繒	to tie; to bind
織	to weave; to knit
織品	textile
織女	Vega (star); Weaving girl of folk tales
織女星	Vega, brightest star in constellation Lyra 天琴星座
織布	woven cloth; to weave cloth
織布機	loom
織機	loom
織物	fabric; textile
織田信長	ODA Nobunaga (1534-1582), Japanese shogun (warlord), played an important role in unifying Japan
織紝	spinning and weaving
織花	woven pattern
織補	darning; to darn
織造	to weave; to manufacture by weaving
織金縣	Zhijin, a county in Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
織金錦	gold brocade
織錦	brocade; silk fabric with colored pattern
繕	to repair; to mend; to rewrite
繕寫	to copy; to transcribe
繕清	to make a clean copy
繖	damask silk
繘	a well-rope
繙	to translate
繚	to wind round; to sew with slanting stitches
繚亂	dazzled; confused
繚繞	(of smoke from a chimney) to curl upward; (of a sound) to linger on
繚邊兒	to stitch a hem
繞	to wind; to coil (thread); to rotate around
繞一圈	to go around one time; to do a circuit
繞來繞去	meandering and circuitous (idiom); to go around in circles and never get anywhere
繞口令	tongue-twister
繞嘴	hard to get one's mouth around; a tongue-twister
繞圈子	to go around in circles; to make a detour
繞地	to orbit the Earth
繞射	(physics) to diffract
繞彎	to go for a walk around; fig. to speak in a roundabout way
繞彎兒	to go for a walk around; (fig.) to speak in a roundabout way
繞彎子	lit. to go on a long detour
繞彎子兒	lit. to go on a long detour
繞手	thorny issue; tricky case
繞梁三日	reverberates around the rafters for three days (idiom); fig. sonorous and resounding (esp. of singing voice)
繞流	turbulence (in fluid mechanics)
繞組	coil (in electric motor or transformer)
繞繞	twisting and turning; involved and tricky
繞脖子	tricky; involved; to beat about the bush
繞膝	(children) run around parent's knees
繞膝承歡	to live with one's parents, thus bringing them happiness (idiom)
繞行	to take a circular (or circuitous) route; to do a circuit
繞路	to make a detour; to take the long route
繞過	to detour; to bypass; to circumvent
繞道	to go by a roundabout route; to take a detour
繞遠兒	to go the long way round; to take a circuitous route
繞騰	to run a long way around
繠	dangle; hang loosely
繡	to embroider; embroidery
繡像	character illustrations in classical Chinese novels
繡帷	tapestry
繡球花	hydrangea
繡球藤	Clematis montana
繡花	to embroider; to do embroidery
繡花鞋	embroidered shoes
繢	multicolor; to draw
繣	obstinate; perverse
繦	string of copper coins
繨	a knot (of a rope)
繩	rope
繩之以法	to punish according to the law; to bring to justice
繩墨	lit. carpenter's straight line marker; same as 墨斗; fig. rules
繩套	noose; harness
繩子	cord; string; rope
繩文	Jyōmon period of Japanese prehistory, with rope pattern pottery
繩梯	a rope ladder
繩索	rope
繩索套	a noose
繩結	knot
繪	to draw; to paint; to depict; to portray
繪圖	to chart; to sketch; to draft; to plot
繪文字	emoji
繪本	picture book
繪架座	Pictor (constellation)
繪畫	to draw; to paint
繪聲繪色	vivid and colorful (idiom); true to life; lively and realistic
繪製	to draw; to draft (a map, blueprint, diagram, illustration etc)
繫	to tie; to fasten; to button up
繫上	to tie on; to buckle up; to fasten
繫囚	prisoner
繫帶	(anatomy) frenulum
繫放	to tag (an animal, for scientific research); to band (a bird)
繫泊	to moor
繭	(bound form) cocoon; (bound form) callus (variant of 趼[jian3])
繭子	callus (patch or hardened skin); corns (on feet); also 趼子
繯	to bind; to tie; lace
繯首	death by hanging
繰	hem with invisible stitches
繳	to hand in; to hand over; to pay; to capture (weapons); to seize
繳交	to hand in; to hand over; to pay (a fee etc)
繳付	to pay; to hand over (tax payment etc)
繳械	to disarm; (of an enemy) to lay down one's weapons; to surrender
繳槍	to lay down one's arms; to surrender; to disarm
繳槍不殺	“surrender and your life will be spared”
繳獲	to capture; to seize
繳稅	to pay tax
繳納	to pay (taxes etc)
繳費	to pay a fee
繳銷	to hand in for cancellation (e.g. a license)
繸	tassel
繹	continuous; to interpret; to unravel
繻	multicolored silk
繼	to continue; to follow after; to go on with
繼任	to succeed sb in a job; successor
繼任者	successor
繼位	to succeed to the throne
繼兄	older stepbrother
繼兄弟姐妹	step-siblings
繼嗣	to continue; to continue a family line; posterity
繼女	stepdaughter
繼妹	younger stepsister
繼姐	older stepsister
繼子	stepson
繼子女	stepchildren; adopted children
繼室	second wife (of a widower)
繼弟	younger stepbrother
繼往開來	to follow the past and herald the future (idiom); part of a historical transition
繼後	later; afterwards
繼承	to inherit; to succeed to (the throne etc)
繼承人	heir; successor
繼承權	right of inheritance
繼承者	successor
繼承衣缽	to take up sb's mantle; to follow in sb's steps
繼武	to follow in the steps of one's predecessor
繼母	stepmother
繼父	stepfather
繼父母	step-parents
繼統	to succeed on the throne
繼續	to continue; to proceed with; to go on with
繼續教育	continuing education
繼而	then; afterwards
繼親	stepfamily; (old) stepmother; to marry
繼軌	to follow in the steps of
繼述	(literary) to carry on; to inherit; to succeed
繼配	second wife (of a widower)
繼電器	(electrical) relay
繽	used in 繽紛|缤纷[bin1 fen1]
繽紛	vast and various; rich and diverse
繾	used in 繾綣|缱绻[qian3 quan3]
繾綣	(literary) in love and inseparable
纁	crimson
纂	(literary) to compile; to edit
纂修	to compile and revise; to inherit and develop
纆	bind; cord
纇	flaw; knot
纈	knot; tie a knot
纈氨酸	valine (Val), an essential amino acid
纈草	valerian (Valeriana officinalis)
纊	fine floss-silk or cotton
續	to continue; to replenish
續作	sequel
續保	renewal of insurance
續借	extended borrowing (e.g. library renewal)
續假	extended leave; prolonged absence
續命	to prolong life; to extend one's lifespan; (fig.) to enable sth to keep going; to give sth a new lease on life
續增	addition; appendix; addendum
續娶	to remarry
續弦	(literary) (of a widower) to remarry
續書	sequel; continuation of a book
續杯	to refill (a beverage cup)
續發感染	secondary infection
續租	to renew a lease
續篇	sequel; continuation (of a story)
續簽	to renew a contract; contract extension
續約	to renew or extend a contract
續編	sequel; continuation (of a serial publication)
續續	continuous; on and on; running
續航	(of an airplane, ship, vehicle etc) to continue a journey without refueling
續西遊記	one of three Ming dynasty sequels to Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记
續訂	to renew
續費	to renew a subscription
續跌	to continue to fall (of share prices)
續隨子	caper (Capparis spinosa)
續集	sequel; next episode (of TV series etc)
纍	rope; to bind together; to twist around
纏	to wind around; to wrap round; to coil
纏夾	to annoy; to bother; to harass
纏夾不清	to muddle things together (idiom)
纏手	troublesome; hard to deal with
纏擾	to harass; to disturb
纏結	to coil around; knot; to entangle
纏絡	to wind around; to twist and turn (of road or river)
纏絲瑪瑙	sardonyx (gemstone of brown-white striped chalcedony)
纏綿	touching (emotions); lingering (illness)
纏綿不已	to cling without letting go; to pester without end
纏綿悱惻	(of a person) sad beyond words (idiom)
纏繞	twisting; to twine; to wind
纏繞莖	vine; twining stem
纏足	foot-binding
纏身	(of an illness, debt etc) to plague one; to bog one down; to preoccupy one
纏頭	embroidered headband used as decoration by actors or in Hui ethnic group
纑	hempen thread; to dress hemp
纓	tassel; sth shaped like a tassel (e.g. a leaf etc); ribbon
纔	(variant of 才[cai2]) just now
纔然	just recently; just a moment ago; just now
纕	cord to hold up sleeves
纖	fine; delicate; minute
纖塵	speck of dust; fine dust
纖密	close; fine; intricate
纖小	fine; delicate
纖屑	fine detail
纖巧	delicate; dainty
纖度	fiber fineness (usu. measured in terms of linear mass density)
纖弱	fragile; delicate
纖微	slight; slim
纖悉	detailed; fine and meticulous
纖悉無遺	detailed and nothing left out (idiom); meticulous and comprehensive
纖手	delicate hands; woman's tender and soft hands
纖柔	delicate; fine
纖毛	cilium
纖毛動力蛋白	ciliary dynein protein
纖瘦	slender; slim as a thread
纖細	fine; slim; tender
纖維	fiber
纖維叢	fiber bundle (math.)
纖維囊泡症	cystic fibrosis
纖維狀	fibrous
纖維素	cellulose
纖維肌痛	fibromyalgia
纖維膠	viscose
纖維蛋白	fibrous protein
纖纖	slim; slender
纖美	exquisite; delicate and beautiful
纖腰	slender waistline
纖芯	core (of a fiber)
纖芯直徑	core diameter (of a fiber)
纖薄	very thin; delicate
纖體	to get a slender figure; slimming
纘	(literary) to inherit
纙	string on which coins are strung
纚	(literary) to bind; to fasten; rope
纛	big banner; feather banner or fan
纜	cable; hawser; to moor
纜樁	mooring bollard
纜索	cable; hawser; mooring rope
纜索吊椅	ski-lift
纜線	cable
纜繩	cable; hawser; mooring rope
纜車	cable car
缶	pottery
缸	jar; vat; classifier for loads of laundry
缺	deficiency; lack; scarce
缺一不可	not a single one is dispensable; can't do without either
缺乏	to lack; to be short of
缺乏症	clinical deficiency
缺位	(of a position) to fall vacant; vacant post; a vacancy
缺勤	to be absent from work or school
缺口	nick; jag; gap
缺嘴	harelip
缺失	lack; deficiency; shortcoming; flaw; defect; to be deficient; to lack
缺少	lack; shortage of; shortfall
缺席	to be absent
缺德	mean; nasty; reprehensible; unprincipled
缺德事	misdeed; immoral action; wicked deed
缺德鬼	public nuisance; a wicked, mean spirited individual
缺心少肺	brainless; stupid
缺心眼	stupid; senseless; dim-witted
缺憾	a regret; sth regrettable
缺損	defective; defect
缺斤少兩	to give short weight
缺斤短兩	to give short weight
缺氧	lacking oxygen; anaerobic
缺氧症	anoxia
缺水	water shortage; dehydration
缺油	oil shortage
缺漏	to overlook; omissions; deficiencies
缺省	default (setting)
缺糧	to lack food supplies
缺血	(medicine) (of an organ or tissue) to have an insufficient blood supply
缺衣少食	short of food and clothing; destitute
缺覺	to lack sleep; to be sleep-deprived
缺角	(of a square shape, such as a house plan) to have a corner missing
缺貨	lack of supplies; unavailable goods
缺錢	shortage of money
缺陣	(sports) to miss a game (due to injury, suspension etc); to sit out a match
缺陷	defect; flaw
缺電	to have a power shortage
缺額	vacancy
缺點	weak point; fault; shortcoming
缽	small earthenware plate or basin; a monk's alms bowl; Sanskrit paatra
缽盂	alms bowl
缽頭	earthen bowl (Shanghainese)
罃	earthen jar with long neck
罄	to use up; to exhaust; empty
罄匱	used-up; exhausted
罄然	well disciplined
罄盡	to use up entirely
罄竹難書	(lit.) too numerous to record on bamboo slips (idiom)
罄身	nudity; nakedness
罅	crack; grudge
罅隙	gap; crack; rift
罈	earthen jar
罈子	jug (earthenware with a big belly and a small opening)
罉	(dialect) cooking pot
罌	earthen jar with small mouth
罌粟	poppy
罍	large earthenware wine jar
罏	pile of earth to keep wine jars
罐	can; jar; pot
罐子	jar; pitcher; pot
罐籠	(mining) mine cage
罐裝	canned (food, coffee etc)
罐車	(road) tanker truck; (rail) tank car; tank wagon
罐頭	tin; can
罐頭笑聲	canned laughter; laugh track
罐頭起子	can opener
罒	net (Kangxi radical 122)
罓	net (Kangxi radical 122)
罔	to deceive; there is none
罔顧	to ignore; to disregard
罕	rare
罕有	to rarely have; rare
罕見	rare; rarely seen
罘	place name
罛	large fishing net
罝	net for catching rabbits
罟	to implicate; net for birds or fish
罠	animal trap
罡	stars of the Big Dipper that constitute the tail of the dipper
罡風	in Daoism, astral wind on which immortals may ride; strong wind
罥	bird catching net; to bind; to hang
罦	net for catching birds
罨	foment; valve
罩	to cover; to spread over; a cover; a shade; a hood; bamboo fish trap
罩子	cover; casing
罩杯	cup (bra size)
罩衣	overalls
罩衫	smock
罩袍	Chinese-style long robe worn as outermost garment; burqa
罩門	Achilles' heel; chink in the armor
罪	guilt; crime; fault
罪人	sinner
罪刑	crime and punishment; penalty for a crime
罪名	charge; accusation; stigma; bad name; stained reputation
罪大惡極	guilty of terrible crimes (idiom); reprehensible
罪孽	sin; crime; wrongdoing
罪性	sinful nature
罪惡	crime; evil; sin
罪惡感	feeling of guilt
罪惡滔天	(idiom) to have committed heinous crimes
罪愆	sin; offense
罪有應得	guilty and deserves to be punished (idiom); entirely appropriate chastisement
罪案	a criminal case
罪犯	criminal
罪狀	charges or facts about a crime; the nature of the offense
罪疚	guilt
罪與罰	Crime and Punishment by Dostoyevsky 陀思妥耶夫斯基[Tuo2 si1 tuo3 ye1 fu1 si1 ji1]
罪行	crime; offense
罪行累累	having an extensive criminal record
罪該萬死	(idiom) deserving the severest punishment; death is too good for sb
罪證	incriminating evidence
罪責	guilt
罪過	sin; offense
罪魁	criminal ringleader; chief culprit; fig. cause of a problem
罪魁禍首	(idiom) criminal ringleader; main offender; main culprit; main cause of a disaster
罫	squares of a chess board
罭	drag-net
置	to install; to place; to put
置中對齊	centered alignment (typography)
置之不問	to pass by without showing interest (idiom)
置之不理	to pay no heed to (idiom); to ignore; to brush aside
置之度外	to give no thought to; to have no regard for; to disregard
置之死地而後生	(idiom based on Sunzi's "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3]) to deploy one's troops in such a way that there is no possibility of retreat, so that they will fight for their lives and win the battle; to fight desperately when confronted with mortal danger; to find a way to emerge from a dire situation
置之腦後	to banish from one's thoughts; to ignore; to take no notice
置信	to believe (what sb claims) (usually used in the negative)
置信係數	confidence coefficient (math.)
置信區間	(statistics) confidence interval
置信水平	confidence level (math.)
置信限	confidence limit (math.)
置入	to insert; to implant; to embed
置入性行銷	product placement
置喙	to offer an opinion; to comment (on the issue)
置換	to permute; permutation (math.); to displace
置換突變	missense mutation
置換群	(math.) permutation group
置放	to put; to place
置於	to place in; to put in (a position)
置景	(cinema, theater) to dress the set
置業	to buy real estate
置氣	to get angry; to take offense
置物櫃	locker; cabinet
置疑	to doubt
置若罔聞	to turn a deaf ear to (idiom); to pretend not to hear
置評	comment; statement
置諸高閣	lit. place on a high shelf; to pay no attention to (idiom)
置買	to purchase; to buy (usu. real estate)
置身	to place oneself; to be (in a place or situation)
置身事外	(idiom) not to get involved; to stay out of it
置辦	to purchase; to buy
置辯	to argue
置頂	to sticky (an Internet forum thread etc)
罰	to punish; to penalize; to fine
罰不當罪	disproportionate punishment; the punishment is harsher than the crime
罰俸	to forfeit one's salary
罰出場	(of a referee) to send a player off the field
罰則	penal provision; penalty
罰半蹲	to punish a student by having him stand in a half-squatting position with arms extended forward
罰單	violation ticket; infringement notice
罰寫	to make a student write sth out many times, as a punishment
罰款	to fine; penalty; fine (monetary)
罰沒	to impose a fine and confiscate (property)
罰球	penalty shot; penalty kick (in sports)
罰站	to be made to stand still as a punishment
罰跪	to punish by protracted kneeling
罰酒	to drink as the result of having lost a bet
罰金	fine; to forfeit
罰錢	to fine
罰鍰	a fine
罱	a kind of tool used to dredge up fish, water plants or river mud, consisting of a net attached to a pair of bamboo poles, which are used to open and close the net
罱泥船	boat used for collecting river sludge (to use as a fertilizer)
署	office; bureau; (Taiwan pr. [shu4]) to sign
署名	to sign (a signature)
署方	(government) department
罳	screen
罵	to scold; to abuse; to curse
罵不絕口	to scold without end (idiom); incessant abuse
罵人	to swear or curse (at people); to scold or yell at someone
罵到臭頭	to chew sb out (Tw)
罵名	infamy; blackened name
罵娘	to curse (at sb); to call sb names
罵戰	war of words; exchange of verbal attacks
罵架	to have a shouting match; to exchange verbal abuse; to quarrel noisily
罵罵咧咧	to swear while talking; to be foul-mouthed
罵聲	scolding; tongue-lashing; (fig.) angry criticism
罵街	to shout abuses in the street
罶	creel; fish basket
罷	to stop; to cease; to dismiss
罷了	a modal particle indicating (that's all, only, nothing much)
罷休	to give up; to abandon (a goal etc); to let sth go
罷免	to remove sb from their post; to dismiss
罷官	to dismiss from office; to resign from office
罷工	a strike; to go on strike
罷市	protest strike by merchants
罷手	to give up
罷教	teacher's strike
罷課	student strike; to boycott classes
罷論	abandoned idea
罷黜	to dismiss from office; to ban; to reject
罷黜百家，獨尊儒術	Dismiss the hundred schools, revere only the Confucian (idiom)
罹	happen to; sorrow; suffer from
罹患	to suffer (from an illness); to fall ill
罹禍	to suffer a disaster; to fall victim to misfortune
罹難	to die in an accident or disaster; to be killed
罻	bird net
罽	(fishing net); woolen rug
罾	large square net
罿	bird net
羃	cover of cloth for food; veil
羅	gauze; to collect; to gather
羅一秀	Luo Yixiu (1889-1910), Mao Zedong's first wife
羅世昌	Luo Shichang, Qing dynasty painter
羅伯斯庇爾	Robespierre (name)
羅伯特	Robert (name)
羅伯特·伯恩斯	Robert Burns (1759-1796), Scottish poet
羅伯特·佛洛斯特	Robert Frost (1874-1963), American poet
羅伯特·路易斯·斯蒂文森	Robert Louis Stevenson (novelist), author of Treasure Island 金銀島|金银岛[Jin1 yin2 Dao3]
羅伯茨	Roberts
羅伯遜	Robertson (name)
羅保銘	Luo Baoming (1952-), sixth governor of Hainan
羅倫斯	Lawrence (city in Kansas, USA)
羅傑	Roger
羅傑斯	Rogers
羅切斯特	Rochester
羅列	to list; to enumerate; (of buildings, objects etc) to be laid out
羅利	Raleigh, capital of North Carolina
羅剎	demon in Buddhism
羅勒	sweet basil (Ocimum basilicum)
羅口	rib collar; rib top of socks
羅嘉良	Gallen Lo (1962-), Hong Kong actor and singer
羅圈	round frame of a sieve
羅圈兒揖	to bow around with hands joined (to people on all sides)
羅圈架	a quarrel in which third parties get involved
羅圈腿	bow-legged; bandy-legged
羅城	a second wall built around a city wall
羅城仫佬族自治縣	Luocheng Mulao Autonomous County, in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
羅塞塔石碑	Rosetta Stone
羅姆人	Romani, an ethnic group of Europe
羅姆酒	(loanword) rum
羅姍	Roxanne or Roxane or Rosanna (name)
羅威納犬	Rottweiler (dog breed)
羅安達	Luanda, capital of Angola
羅宋	(dialect) Russia
羅宋湯	borscht, a traditional beetroot soup
羅定市	Luoding, a county-level city in Yunfu City 雲浮市|云浮市[Yun2 fu2 Shi4], Guangdong
羅家英	Law Kar-Ying (1946-), Hong Kong actor
羅密歐	Romeo (name)
羅密歐與朱麗葉	Romeo and Juliet, 1594 tragedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚
羅山縣	Luoshan, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
羅巴切夫斯基	Nikolai Lobachevsky (1792–1856), Russian mathematician, founder of non-Euclidean geometry
羅布	to display; to spread out; to distribute
羅布林卡	Norbulingka (Tibetan: precious garden), summer residence of Dalai Lamas in Lhasa, Tibet
羅布泊	Lop Nor, former salt lake in Xinjiang, now a salt-encrusted lake bed
羅布麻	dogbane (Apocynum venetum), leaves used in TCM
羅平縣	Luoping, a county in Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
羅式幾何	hyperbolic geometry; Lobachevskian geometry
羅得島	Rhode Island, US state; Rhodes, an island of Greece
羅得斯島	Rhodes, Mediterranean island
羅德島	Rhode Island, US state; Rhodes, an island of Greece
羅徹斯特	Rochester
羅必達法則	L'Hôpital's rule (math.) (Tw)
羅志祥	Luo Zhixiang or Show Luo or Alan Luo (1979-), Taiwanese pop star
羅恩	Ron (name)
羅懋登	Luo Maodeng (16th century), Ming author of operas and popular fiction
羅托魯瓦	Rotorua, city in New Zealand
羅拉	roller (loanword)
羅拜	to line up to pay homage
羅掘	to scrape together money (abbr. for 羅雀掘鼠|罗雀掘鼠[luo2 que4 jue2 shu3])
羅摩衍那	the Ramayana (Indian epic)
羅摩諾索夫	Mikhail Vasilyevich Lomonosov (1711-1765), famous Russian chemist and polymath
羅摩諾索夫山脊	Lomonosov ridge (in the Artic Ocean)
羅文	Roman Tam (1945–2002), Canto-pop singer
羅斯	(name) Ross; Rose; Roth
羅斯托克	Rostock (city in Germany)
羅斯托夫	Rostov-on-Don, Russian river port and regional capital close to Sea of Azov (north of the Black Sea)
羅斯涅夫	Rosneft (Russian state oil company)
羅斯福	Roosevelt (name)
羅曼使	romance; love affair; more commonly written 羅曼史|罗曼史
羅曼史	romance (loanword); love affair
羅曼司	(loanword) romance
羅曼蒂克	(loanword) romantic
羅曼語族	Romance language family
羅曼諾	Romano (name)
羅望子	(botany) tamarind
羅格	Logue or Rogge (name)
羅格斯大學	Rutgers University (New Jersey)
羅榮桓	Luo Ronghuan (1902-1963), Chinese communist military leader
羅氏	Roche, a Swiss multinational healthcare company that focuses on pharmaceuticals and diagnostics
羅氏幾何	hyperbolic geometry; Lobachevskian geometry
羅氏線圈	Rogowski coil
羅水	name of a river, the northern tributary of Miluo river 汨羅江|汨罗江[Mi4 luo2 jiang1]
羅江區	Luojiang, a district of Deyang City 德陽市|德阳市[De2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
羅浮宮	the Louvre, museum in Paris (Tw)
羅浮山	Mt Luofushan in Zengcheng county, Guangdong
羅湖區	Luohu, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
羅源縣	Luoyuan, a county in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
羅漢	(Buddhism) arhat (abbr. for 阿羅漢|阿罗汉[a1 luo2 han4])
羅漢拳	Luohan Quan (Shaolin kung fu style)
羅漢果	monk fruit, the sweet fruit of Siraitia grosvenorii, a vine of the Curcubitaceae family native to southern China and northern Thailand, used in Chinese medicine
羅漢病	snail fever (bilharzia or schistosomiasis), disease caused by schistosome parasitic flatworm
羅漢肚	potbelly
羅漢豆	broad bean (Vicia faba); fava bean
羅漢魚	flowerhorn cichlid
羅潔愛爾之	Raziel, archangel in Judaism
羅爾定理	Rolle's theorem (in calculus)
羅爾斯·羅伊斯	Rolls-Royce (UK company); also written 勞斯萊斯|劳斯莱斯[Lao2 si1 Lai2 si1]
羅琳	Rowling (name)
羅生門	Rashomon, Japanese novel and movie
羅田縣	Luotian, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
羅甸縣	Luodian, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
羅盛教	Luo Chengjiao (1931-1952), PRC hero of the volunteer army in Korea
羅盤	compass
羅盤座	Pyxis (constellation)
羅睺	the intersection of the Moon's orbit with the ecliptic in Vedic astronomy (Sanskrit rahu)
羅紋	rib (in fabric); ribbed pattern
羅紋鴨	(bird species of China) falcated duck (Mareca falcata)
羅納	Rhone, river of Switzerland and France
羅納河	Rhone, river of Switzerland and France
羅納爾多	Ronaldo (name); Cristiano Ronaldo (1985-), Portuguese soccer player
羅素	Russell (name)
羅索	Roseau, capital of the Commonwealth of Dominica
羅經	compass; same as 羅盤|罗盘
羅網	net; fishing net; bird net
羅緞	ribbed
羅縷紀存	to record and preserve
羅織	to frame sb; to cook up imaginary charges against sb
羅致	to employ; to recruit (talented personnel)
羅興亞人	Rohingya (predominantly Muslim ethnic group primarily residing in Rakhine State, Myanmar)
羅茲	Łódź, third largest city of Poland
羅莊區	Luozhuang, a district of Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
羅莎	Rosa (name)
羅蒙諾索夫	Mikhail Lomonosov (1711-1765), Russian polymath and writer
羅蘭	Roland (name)
羅訥河	Rhone River, France
羅語	Romanian language
羅貫中	Luo Guanzhong (c. 1330-c. 1400), author of the Romance of the Three Kingdoms and other works
羅賈瓦	Rojava (de facto autonomous region in northeastern Syria)
羅賓漢	Robin Hood (English 12th century folk hero)
羅賓遜	Robinson (name)
羅鍋	to hunch one's back (coll.); a hunchback
羅鍋橋	a humpback bridge
羅雀掘鼠	(lit.) to net sparrows and dig out rats (idiom)
羅霄山	Luoxiao Mountains, mountain range straddling the border between Jiangxi and Hunan
羅非魚	tilapia
羅預	(old) very short unit of time (loanword, from Sanskrit)
羅馬	Rome, capital of Italy; (historical) Ancient Rome
羅馬公教	Roman Catholicism
羅馬化	romanization
羅馬字	the Latin alphabet
羅馬字母	Roman letters; Roman alphabet
羅馬尼亞	Romania
羅馬帝國	Roman Empire
羅馬教廷	the Church (as Royal Court); the Holy See; the Vatican
羅馬數字	Roman numerals
羅馬書	Epistle of St Paul to the Romans
羅馬法	Roman law
羅馬涼鞋	Roman sandals; ankle-strap sandals
羅馬諾	Romano (name)
羅馬鞋	caligae (sandals worn by Roman soldiers in ancient times)
羅馬鬥獸場	Colosseum (Rome)
羆	brown bear
羆虎	fierce animals
羈	bridle; halter; to restrain
羈宦	(literary) to serve as a government official far from one's native place
羈押	to detain; to take into custody; detention
羈旅	(literary) to stay long in a place far from home
羈留	to stay; to detain
羈絆	trammels; fetters; yoke
羊	surname Yang
羊入虎口	lit. a lamb in a tiger's den (idiom); fig. to tread dangerous ground
羊卓雍措	Yamdrok Lake, Tibet
羊卓雍錯	Yamdrok Lake, Tibet
羊城	Yangcheng, a nickname for 廣州|广州[Guang3 zhou1]
羊奶	sheep's milk
羊年	Year of the Ram (e.g. 2003)
羊怪	faun, half-goat half-human creature of Greek mythology
羊拐	children's game, similar to knucklebones
羊排	lamb chop
羊桃	carambola; star fruit
羊棧	sheep or goat pen
羊毛	wool; fleece
羊毛出在羊身上	lit. wool comes from the sheep's back (idiom); One gets the benefit, but the price has been paid.
羊毛毯	woolen blanket
羊毛線	knitting wool; wool yarn
羊毛脂	lanolin; wool oil
羊毛衫	wool sweater; cardigan
羊水	amniotic fluid
羊水穿刺	amniocentesis (used in Taiwan)
羊油	sheep's fat; suet; mutton tallow
羊男	goat-man; faun of Greek mythology
羊瘙癢病	scrapie (prion disease of sheep)
羊瘙癢症	scrapie (prion disease of sheep)
羊癇風	epilepsy
羊癢疫	scrapie (prion disease of sheep)
羊癲瘋	epilepsy
羊皮	sheepskin
羊皮紙	parchment
羊穿	amniocentesis (abbr. for 羊膜穿刺[yang2 mo2 chuan1 ci4])
羊羔	lamb
羊群	flock of sheep
羊羹	yōkan, gelatin dessert typically made from red bean paste, agar, and sugar, sold in block form
羊肉	mutton; goat meat
羊肉串	lamb kebab
羊肉餡	minced mutton
羊肚手巾	(dialect) towel (especially worn as a turban)
羊脂白玉	sheep-fat white jade, a type of jade
羊腸小徑	winding road (twisting and turning like a sheep's intestine)
羊腸小道	road as twisty as sheep's intestine (idiom); narrow and winding road
羊膜	(anatomy) amnion
羊膜穿刺	amniocentesis
羊膜穿刺術	amniocentesis
羊角	sheep's or goat's horn
羊角包	croissant
羊角村	Giethoorn (city in the Netherlands)
羊角芹	ground-elder (Aegopodium podagraria)
羊角豆	(Malaysia) okra (Abelmoschus esculentus)
羊角錘	claw hammer
羊角風	epilepsy
羊角麵包	croissant
羊觸藩籬	lit. billy goat's horns caught in the fence (idiom from Book of Changes 易經|易经); impossible to advance or to retreat
羊質虎皮	lit. the heart of a sheep in the skin of a tiger (idiom)
羊頭	sheep's head; fig. advertisement for good meat
羊駝	alpaca
羋	to bleat (of a sheep)
羌	muntjac; grammar particle indicating nonsense (classical)
羌族	Qiang ethnic group
羌活	Notopterygium root (root of Notopterygium incisum)
羌無故實	to have no basis in fact (idiom)
羌笛	Qiang flute
羌鷲	sea eagle
羍	little lamb
美	(bound form) the Americas (abbr. for 美洲[Mei3 zhou1])
美不勝收	nothing more beautiful can be imagined (idiom)
美中	US-China
美中不足	everything is fine except for one small defect (idiom); the fly in the ointment
美中台	US-China-Taiwan
美乃滋	mayonnaise (loanword) (Tw)
美事	a fine thing; a wonderful thing
美人	beautiful woman; belle
美人尖	widow's peak (in China, regarded as attractive in women)
美人痣	beauty mark
美人胚子	(coll.) girl who shows signs of becoming a beauty; budding beauty
美人腿	(Tw) (coll.) edible stem of Manchurian wild rice 菰[gu1], aka water bamboo
美人蕉	canna or Indian shot (genus Canna)
美人計	honey trap; sexual entrapment
美人魚	mermaid
美他沙酮	metaxalone
美以美	Methodist (Christian sect)
美元	American dollar; US dollar
美其名曰	to call by the glorified name of (idiom)
美刀	(slang) US dollar
美分	one cent (United States coin)
美利堅	America
美利堅合眾國	United States of America
美利堅治世	Pax Americana
美利奴羊	merino (breed of sheep)
美劇	American TV series (abbr. for 美國電視劇|美国电视剧[Mei3 guo2 dian4 shi4 ju4])
美加	US and Canada (abbr.)
美勞	(Tw) arts and crafts (as a school subject)
美化	to make more beautiful; to decorate; embellishment
美名	good name; good reputation
美味	delicious; delicious food; delicacy
美味可口	delicious; tasty
美味牛肝菌	porcino (Boletus edulis)
美善	beautiful and good
美因茨	Mainz (city in Germany)
美國	United States; USA; US
美國之音	Voice of America (VOA)
美國交會	abbr. for 美國證券交易委員會|美国证券交易委员会, US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
美國人	American; American person; American people
美國佬	an American (derog.); a Yankee
美國全國廣播公司	National Broadcasting Company (NBC)
美國參議院	United States Senate
美國國務院	US Department of State
美國國家偵察局	National Reconnaissance Office (of the United States)
美國國家標準學會	American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
美國國家航空航天局	NASA, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, agency of US government
美國國會	US Congress
美國國際集團	American International Group
美國在線	America Online (AOL)
美國地質局	United States Geological Survey (USGS)
美國地質調查局	United States Geological Survey (USGS)
美國太空總署	NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration)
美國存託憑證	American depository receipt (ADR)
美國宇航局	US National Aeronautics and Space Administration; NASA
美國廣播公司	ABC (American Broadcasting Corporation)
美國最高法院	Supreme Court of the United States
美國有線新聞網	Cable Network News (CNN)
美國海岸警衛隊	United States Coast Guard
美國獨立戰爭	American War of Independence (1775-1783)
美國眾議院	United States House of Representatives
美國聯合通訊社	Associated Press (AP); abbr. to 美聯社|美联社[Mei3 Lian2 she4]
美國聯邦儲備	US Federal Reserve (Fed), the US central bank
美國聯邦航空局	Federal Aviation Authority (FAA)
美國能源部	US Department of Energy (DOE)
美國航空	American Airlines
美國航空公司	American Airlines
美國證券交易委員會	US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
美國資訊交換標準碼	ASCII, American Standard Code for Information Interchange
美國運通	American Express Co. (Amex)
美國電話電報公司	AT&T
美團點評	Meituan-Dianping, China's largest service-focused e-commerce platform
美夢成真	a dream come true
美女	beautiful woman
美好	beautiful; fine
美妙	beautiful; wonderful; splendid
美妝	beauty products; cosmetics; (metonym) the beauty industry
美姑河	Meigu River in south Sichuan
美姑縣	Meigu, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
美學	aesthetics
美宇航局	US National Aeronautics and Space Administration; NASA
美容	to improve one's appearance (using cosmetics or cosmetic surgery)
美容女	hairdresser (female); beautician
美容師	hairdresser; beautician (male)
美容店	beauty salon
美容手術	cosmetic surgery
美容覺	beauty sleep (before midnight)
美容院	beauty salon; beauty parlor
美尼爾氏綜合症	Meniere's disease
美尼爾病	Meniere's disease
美屬維爾京群島	United States Virgin Islands (USVI)
美屬薩摩亞	American Samoa
美工	art design; art designer
美工刀	utility knife; box cutter
美差	cushy job; pleasant task
美差事	a terrific job
美巴	America and Pakistan; America and Brazil; America and Panama
美帝	(in early CCP propaganda) United States (as an imperialist nation)
美式	American-style
美式咖啡	caffè americano
美式橄欖球	American football
美式足球	American football
美德	USA and Germany
美心	Maxine (name)
美意	goodwill; kindness
美感	sense of beauty; aesthetic perception
美拉尼西亞	Melanesia
美日	the US and Japan; US-Japan
美景	beautiful scenery
美智子	Michiko, Japanese female given name; Empress Michiko of Japan (1934-)
美朝	US and North Korea
美杜莎	Medusa (monster of Greek mythology)
美東時間	USA Eastern Standard Time
美林集團	Merrill Lynch
美樂	Merlot (grape type)
美歐	US and EU; America-Europe
美汁源	Minute Maid
美沙酮	methadone
美泉宮	Schönbrunn Palace in Vienna
美洛昔康	meloxicam (anti-inflammatory drug)
美洲	America (including North, Central and South America); the Americas
美洲國家組織	Organization of American States
美洲大陸	the Americas; North and South American continents
美洲獅	cougar; mountain lion; puma
美洲綠翅鴨	(bird species of China) green-winged teal (Anas carolinensis)
美洲虎	jaguar
美洲豹	jaguar (Panthera onca)
美洲金鴴	(bird species of China) American golden plover (Pluvialis dominica)
美洲鴕	Greater Rhea; American Rhea; Rhea americana
美滋滋	very happy; elated
美滿	happy; blissful
美濃瓜	(Tw) oriental melon (Cucumis melo Makuwa Group)
美玉	fine jade
美玲	Meiling (female name)
美甲	manicure and-or pedicure
美甲師	manicurist; nail artist
美白	to whiten (the skin or teeth)
美的	Midea (brand)
美眄	captivating glance
美眉	(coll.) pretty girl
美瞳	cosmetic contact lens; big eye contact lens; circle contact lens
美石	precious stone; jewel
美神	goddess of beauty (typically used in reference to Venus 維納斯|维纳斯[Wei2 na4 si1] or Aphrodite 阿佛洛狄忒[A1 fu2 luo4 di2 te4])
美祿	Nestlé Milo (chocolate-flavored powder added to milk or water)
美稱	to dub with a nice-sounding appellation; fanciful moniker
美籍	American (i.e. of US nationality)
美粒果	Minute Maid (brand)
美紋紙膠帶	masking tape
美索不達米亞	Mesopotamia
美網	US Open (tennis tournament)
美編	(publishing) (abbr. for 美術編輯|美术编辑[mei3 shu4 bian1 ji2]) layout and graphics
美耐板	melamine veneer (loanword)
美耐皿	(Tw) (loanword) melamine
美聯儲	US Federal Reserve (Fed), the US central bank
美聯社	Associated Press (AP)
美聲	bel canto
美聲唱法	bel canto
美職籃	National Basketball Association (NBA)
美股	US stocks; the US stock market
美色	charm; loveliness (of a woman)
美艷	beautiful and alluring; glamorous; gorgeous
美英	US and UK; Anglo-American
美藍	methylene blue
美蘇	American-Soviet (tension, rapprochement etc)
美蘭區	Meilan, a district of Haikou City 海口市[Hai3 kou3 Shi4], Hainan
美術	art; fine arts; painting
美術史	history of art
美術品	an art object
美術編輯	(publishing) layout and graphics; graphic design; art editor
美術館	art gallery
美製	American made
美觀	pleasing to the eye; beautiful; artistic
美言	to put in a good word (for sb)
美語	American English
美談	anecdote passed on with approbation
美譽	good name; good reputation
美貌	good looks; beauty; good-looking
美軍	US army; US armed forces
美輪美奐	(idiom) (of houses, scenery etc) magnificent
美酒	good wine; fine liquor
美金	American dollar; US dollar
美鈔	US dollar bill; greenback
美顏	to beautify sb's face (with cosmetics etc)
美顏相機	BeautyCam, a smartphone app for retouching selfies (abbr. to 美顏|美颜[Mei3 yan2])
美食	culinary delicacy; fine food; gourmet food
美食家	gourmet
美食沙漠	culinary desert
美食荒漠	culinary desert
美食街	food court; food street
美餐	tasty meal; to eat a satisfying meal
美饌	delicacy
美體小舖	The Body Shop (UK cosmetics company)
美髮	hairdressing; to give sb's hair a cut or other beauty treatment
美髮師	hairdresser; beautician
美髮廳	hairdressing salon
美麗	beautiful
美麗島	Formosa (from Ilha Formosa, "Beautiful Isle", the name given to Taiwan Island by passing Portuguese mariners in 1544)
美麗島事件	Kaohsiung Incident (aka Formosa Incident), a crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrations in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, on 10 December 1979 during Taiwan's martial law period
美麗新世界	Brave New World, novel by Aldous Huxley 阿道司·赫胥黎[A1 dao4 si1 · He4 xu1 li2]
羑	to lead
羔	lamb
羔皮	lambskin; kid leather
羔羊	sheep; lamb
羖	black ewe
羚	antelope
羚牛	takin (type of goat-antelope)
羚羊	antelope
羜	five-month-old lamb
羝	billy goat; ram
羝羊觸藩	lit. billy goat's horns caught in the fence (idiom from Book of Changes 易經|易经); impossible to advance or to retreat
羞	shy; ashamed; shame
羞怯	shy; timid
羞恥	(a feeling of) shame
羞惱	resentful; humiliated and angry
羞愧	ashamed
羞愧難當	to feel ashamed (idiom)
羞慚	a disgrace; ashamed
羞憤	ashamed and resentful; indignant
羞於啟齒	to be too shy to speak one's mind (idiom)
羞澀	shy; bashful
羞答答	bashful
羞紅	to blush
羞羞臉	(jocular) shame on you!
羞臉	to blush with shame
羞赧	(literary) embarrassed; bashful
羞辱	to humiliate; to shame; humiliation
羢	wool of sheep
群	group; crowd; flock, herd, pack etc
群P	(slang) to have group sex
群主	creator and admin (of an online group)
群交	to have group sex
群件	collaborative software
群嘲	(neologism, attested by 2011) to deride a group of people
群居	to live together (in a large group or flock)
群山	mountains; a range of hills
群峰	the peaks of a mountain range
群島	group of islands; archipelago
群架	group scuffle; gang fight
群演	extra (actor engaged to appear in a crowd scene) (abbr. for 群眾演員|群众演员[qun2 zhong4 yan3 yuan2])
群發	to send to multiple recipients; mass mailout
群發性地震	earthquake swarm
群發性頭痛	cluster headache
群眾	mass; multitude; the masses
群眾團體	mass (non-government) organization
群眾外包	crowdsourcing; abbr. to 眾包|众包[zhong4 bao1]
群眾大會	mass rally
群眾性	to do with the masses; mass (meeting, movement etc)
群眾演員	extra (actor engaged to appear in a crowd scene)
群眾組織	communal organization
群眾路線	the mass line, CCP term for Party policy aimed at broadening and cultivating contacts with the masses
群租	to rent to multiple co-tenants, esp. where the number of tenants exceeds what the dwelling is fit to accommodate (i.e. involving subdivision of rooms etc)
群策群力	(idiom) to act in concert; to pool ideas and efforts
群組	group; cohort; cluster
群聊	(computing) group chat; to have a group chat
群聚	to gather; to congregate; to aggregate
群花	blossom
群芳	all flowers; all beauties; all talents
群英	assemblage of talented individuals; ensemble of heroes
群英會	distinguished gathering; a meeting of heroes
群落	community; (science) biocoenosis; ecological community
群言堂	letting everyone have their say; taking people's views into account
群論	group theory (math.)
群起而攻之	the masses rise to attack it (idiom); Everyone is against the idea.
群雄	outstanding heroes; warlords vying for supremacy (in former times)
群雄逐鹿	great heroes pursue deer in the central plains (idiom); fig. many vie for supremacy
群集	to gather; to congregate; to aggregate
群震	earthquake swarm
群飛	to fly as a flock or swarm
群馬	Gunma (prefecture in Japan)
群體	community; colony
群體免疫	herd immunity
群體性事件	mass incident (PRC term for incidents of social unrest, including rioting, melees and petition campaigns)
群龍無首	lit. a thunder of dragons without a head
羥	hydroxyl (radical)
羥基	hydroxyl group -OH
羥基丁酸	gamma-Hydroxybutyric acid, GHB
羥基磷灰石	hydroxyapatite (calcium phosphate mineral forming bone and tooth enamel)
羥氯喹	hydroxychloroquine (medication)
羥自由基	hydroxyl radical
羧	carboxyl radical (chemistry)
羧基	carboxyl group -COOH
羧基酸	carboxylic acid
羧甲司坦	carbocysteine
羧酸	carboxylic acid
羨	to envy
羨慕	to envy; to admire
羨慕嫉妒恨	to be green with envy (neologism c. 2009)
義	surname Yi; (Tw) Italy (abbr. for 義大利|义大利[Yi4 da4 li4])
義不容辭	not to be shirked without dishonor (idiom); incumbent; bounden (duty)
義交	traffic auxiliary police (Tw)
義人	righteous man
義勇	courageous in fighting for a just cause
義勇軍	volunteer army
義勇軍進行曲	March of the Volunteer Army (PRC National Anthem)
義務	duty; obligation (CL:項|项[xiang4]); volunteer (work etc)
義務工作者	volunteer; voluntary worker
義務教育	compulsory education
義和亂	the Boxer uprising
義和團	the Righteous and Harmonious Fists; the Boxers (history)
義和團運動	Boxer Rebellion (1900–1901), a peasant uprising that attempted to expel all foreigners from China, eventually suppressed by an international coalition
義和拳	the Righteous and Harmonious Fists; the Boxers (history)
義塚	potter's field; pauper's grave
義士	high-minded and righteous person; patriot; loyalist
義大利	(Tw) Italy
義大利語	(Tw) Italian (language)
義大利麵	(Tw) spaghetti; pasta
義女	adopted daughter
義子	adopted son
義學	free school (old)
義安區	Yi'an, a district of Tongling City 銅陵市|铜陵市[Tong2 ling2 Shi4], Anhui
義工	volunteer worker; volunteer work
義式	(Tw) Italian-style
義怒	righteous anger
義憤	righteous indignation; moral indignation
義憤填胸	righteous indignation fills one's breast (idiom); to feel indignant at injustice
義憤填膺	righteous indignation fills one's breast (idiom); to feel indignant at injustice
義正辭嚴	(idiom) to speak forcibly out of a sense of righteousness
義母	adoptive mother
義氣	spirit of loyalty and self-sacrifice; code of brotherhood
義演	benefit performance; charity show
義烏市	Yiwu, a county-level city in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
義無反顧	honor does not allow one to glance back (idiom); duty-bound not to turn back
義父	adoptive father
義父母	adoptive parents
義理	doctrine (esp. religious); argumentation (in a speech or essay)
義結金蘭	to be close friends
義縣	Yi County or Yixian, a county in Jinzhou City 錦州市|锦州市[Jin3 zhou1 Shi4], Liaoning
義縣龍	Yixianosaurus, genus of theropod dinosaur from Yi county 義縣|义县, Jinzhou 錦州|锦州, west Liaoning
義肢	artificial limb; prosthesis
義薄雲天	supremely honorable and righteous
義行	virtuous deed
義診	to provide free medical treatment
義警	vigilante; volunteer (police)
義譯	to translate a term into Chinese using a combination of characters or words that suggests its meaning (as opposed to transliteration 音譯|音译[yin1 yi4]) (e.g. 超文本[chao1 wen2 ben3], 火車|火车[huo3 che1])
義賣	to hold a charity bazaar; to sell goods for a good cause
義賣會	bazaar
義軍	volunteer army
義項	sense (of a word)
義馬市	Yima, a county-level city in Sanmenxia City 三門峽市|三门峡市[San1 men2 xia2 Shi4], Henan
義齒	artificial tooth
羭	black ram
羯	Jie people, a tribe of northern China around the 4th century
羯族	Jie people, a tribe of northern China around the 4th century
羯磨	karma (loanword)
羯羊	wether (castrated ram)
羯胡	Jie people, a tribe of northern China around the 4th century
羯鼓	double-ended skin drum with a narrow waist
羯鼓催花	drumming to make apricots flower, cf joke by Tang Emperor Xuanzhong 唐玄宗, playing the drum in apricot blossom
羰	carbonyl (radical)
羱	large-horned wild goat
羱羊	ibex
羲	same as Fuxi 伏羲[Fu2 xi1], a mythical emperor; surname Xi
羲皇上人	lit. a person before the legendary emperor Fuxi 伏羲[Fu2 Xi1]
羴	(old) a flock of sheep or goats
羵	spirit
羸	entangled; lean
羸弱	frail; weak
羹	thick soup
羹湯	soup
羹藜含糗	nothing but herb soup and dry provisions to eat (idiom); to survive on a coarse diet
羹藜唅糗	nothing but herb soup and dry provisions to eat (idiom); to survive on a coarse diet
羼	to mix; to blend; to dilute
羼水	to mix with water (wine); to adulterate
羼雜	to mix; to blend; to dilute
羽	feather; 5th note in pentatonic scale
羽冠	feathered crest (of bird)
羽化	levitation (of Daoist immortal)
羽客	Daoist priest
羽尾袋鼯	feathertail glider (Acrobates pygmaeus)
羽族	birds
羽林	armed escort
羽毛	feather; plumage; plume
羽毛球	badminton; shuttlecock
羽毛球場	badminton court
羽毛筆	quill pen
羽毛緞	camlet (silk fabric)
羽流	plume
羽涅	alumen; alunite (TCM)
羽狀複葉	bipinnate leaf (in phyllotaxy)
羽球	badminton; shuttlecock
羽田	Haneda (one of the two main airports serving Tokyo)
羽絨	down (soft feathers)
羽絨服	down jacket; down coat
羽緞	camlet (silk fabric)
羽翼	wing; (fig.) assistant
羽翼豐滿	fully fledged
羽莖	quill
羽衣甘藍	kale
羽裂	pinnation (splitting of leaves into lobes)
羽鰓鮐	Indian mackerel
羿	surname Yi; name of a legendary archer (also called 后羿[Hou4 Yi4])
翀	soar
翁	elderly man; father; father-in-law
翁姑	husband's father and mother
翁婿	father-in-law (wife's father) and son-in-law
翁安縣	Weng'an County in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
翁源縣	Wengyuan, a county in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
翁牛特	Ongniud banner or Ongnuud khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
翁牛特旗	Ongniud banner or Ongnuud khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
翃	to swarm (of insects)
翅	(bound form) wing (of a bird or insect)
翅子	shark's fin; wing
翅展	wingspan
翅湯	shark-fin soup
翅膀	wing
翅膀硬	(of a bird) to fledge
翊	assist; ready to fly; respect
翌	bright; tomorrow
翌年	the following year; the next year
翌日	next day
翎	tail feathers; plume
翎子	peacock feathers on an official's hat displaying his rank (traditional)
翎毛	feather; plume; plumage
翏	the sound of the wind; to soar
習	(bound form) to practice; to study; habit
習以成俗	to become accustomed to sth through long practice
習以成性	deeply ingrained; steeped in
習以為常	accustomed to; used to
習作	(writing, drawing, calligraphy etc) to apply oneself to producing practice pieces
習俗	custom; tradition; local tradition
習俗移性	one's habits change with long custom
習大大	Papa Xi, nickname for Xi Jinping 習近平|习近平[Xi2 Jin4 ping2]
習字	to practice writing characters
習得	to learn; to acquire (some skill through practice); acquisition
習得性	acquired; learned
習得性無助	(psychology) learned helplessness
習性	character acquired through long habit; habits and properties
習慣	habit; custom; usual practice
習慣性	customary
習慣成自然	(saying) habit becomes second nature; to do something as if it were perfectly natural because one is accustomed to it
習慣法	customary law; common law
習慣用法	idiom
習慣用語	idiom; idiomatic expression; habitual form of speech (grammar)
習武	to practice martial arts
習氣	custom; practice (usu. a regrettable one)
習水縣	Xishui, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
習用	to use habitually; usual; conventional
習習	(of the wind) blowing gently; abundant; flying
習見	commonly seen
習語	common saying; idiom
習近平	Xi Jinping (1953–), PRC politician, General Secretary of the CCP from 2012, president of the PRC from 2013
習題	(schoolwork) exercise; problem; question
翔	to soar; to glide; (slang) shit
翔回	to circle (in the sky)
翔安區	Xiang'an, a district of Xiamen City 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 Shi4], Fujian
翔實	complete and accurate
翔鳳	Comac ARJ21, Chinese-built twin-engine regional jet
翕	to open and close (the mouth etc); friendly; compliant
翕動	to open and close (the mouth etc)
翛	hastiness
翟	long-tail pheasant
翟志剛	Zhai Zhigang (1966-), Chinese astronaut
翟理斯	Herbert Allen Giles (1845-1935), British diplomat and linguist, contributor to the Wade-Giles Chinese romanization system
翠	bluish-green; green jade
翠冠玉	peyote (Lophophora williamsii)
翠屏區	Cuiping, a district of Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
翠綠	greenish-blue; emerald green
翠金鵑	(bird species of China) Asian emerald cuckoo (Chrysococcyx maculatus)
翠青蛇	Entechinus major (kind of snake)
翠鳥	kingfisher
翡	used in 翡翠[fei3 cui4]
翡冷翠	Florence, Italy (from Firenze)
翡翠	jadeite; tree kingfisher
翣	wooden fan carried in procession
翥	to soar
翦	surname Jian
翦伯贊	Jian Bozan (1898-1968), Chinese Marxist historian and vice-president of Bejing University 1952-1968
翩	to fly fast
翩然而至	come trippingly
翩翩	elegant; graceful; smart
翩翩起舞	(to start) dancing lightly and gracefully
翩躚	spry and lively (of dancing and movements)
翪	uneven flight of a bird
翫	Taiwan pr. [wan4]
翬	pheasant; golden pheasant; variegated
翮	quill
翯	glistening plumage of birds
翰	writing brush; writing; pen
翰林	refers to academics employed as imperial secretaries from the Tang onwards, forming the Hanlin Imperial Academy 翰林院
翰林學士	members of the Hanlin Imperial Academy 翰林院, employed as imperial secretaries from the Tang onwards
翰林院	Imperial Hanlin Academy, lasting from Tang dynasty until 1911
翱翔	to soar; to wheel about in the sky
翳	feather screen; to screen; to shade
翳眼	cataract
翹	to stick up; to rise on one end; to tilt
翹二郎腿	to stick one leg over the other (when sitting)
翹企	to look forward eagerly; to long for
翹嘴鷸	(bird species of China) Terek sandpiper (Xenus cinereus)
翹尾巴	to be cocky
翹居群首	head and shoulders above the crowd (idiom); preeminent; outstanding
翹拇指	to give a thumbs-up
翹曲	to warp; to bend; fig. distorted opinion
翹望	to raise one's head and look into the distance; fig. to forward to
翹材	outstandingly talented person
翹板	a see-saw
翹楚	person of outstanding talent
翹班	to skip work; to sneak out of work early
翹盼	to long for; eager for
翹稜	to warp; to bend
翹翹板	see-saw; also written 蹺蹺板|跷跷板[qiao1 qiao1 ban3]
翹臀	(coll.) perky butt
翹舌音	retroflex sound (e.g. in Mandarin zh, ch, sh, r)
翹課	to skip school; to cut class
翹起	to stick up; to point sth up
翹足	lit. on tiptoes; to look forward eagerly; to long for
翹足引領	waiting on tiptoes and craning one's neck (idiom)
翹足而待	to expect in a short time (idiom); also pr. [qiao4 zu2 er2 dai4]
翹辮子	(coll.) to die; to kick the bucket
翹首	to raise one's head and look
翹首以待	to hold one's breath (in anticipation) (idiom); to anxiously await
翹鼻麻鴨	(bird species of China) common shelduck (Tadorna tadorna)
翻	to turn over; to flip over; to overturn
翻一番	to increase by 100%; to double
翻作	to compose; to write words to a tune
翻來覆去	to toss and turn (sleeplessly); again and again
翻供	to retract a confession or testimony
翻修	to rebuild (house or road); to overhaul
翻倍	to double
翻倒	to overturn; to overthrow; to capsize
翻動	to flip over; to turn (a page); to scroll (an electronic document)
翻印	to reprint (generally without authorization)
翻卷	to spin; to whirl around
翻唱	to cover (a previously recorded song); cover version (of a song)
翻嘴	to withdraw a remark; to quarrel
翻天覆地	sky and the earth turning upside down (idiom); fig. complete confusion
翻子拳	Fanziquan - "Overturning Fist" - Martial Art
翻山越嶺	lit. to pass over mountain ridges (idiom)
翻悔	to renege; to go back (on a deal); to back out (of a promise)
翻手為雲覆手變雨	lit. turning his hand palm up he gathers the clouds, turning his hand palm down he turns them to rain
翻拍	to make a photographic reproduction of an image or document etc; a reproduction
翻揀	to browse and select; to glance through and check
翻攝	to create an image or video by copying an existing one (e.g. taking a photo of a picture in a magazine, recording a video playing on a monitor, taking a screenshot of an online photo)
翻攪	to stir up; to turn over
翻斗卡車	dump truck
翻新	to revamp; a face-lift; to retread (a tire)
翻本	to win back one's money (gambling etc)
翻案	to reverse a verdict
翻桌	to flip a table over (in a fit of anger)
翻桌率	table turnover rate (in a restaurant)
翻檢	to rummage; to look through; to leaf through
翻江倒海	lit. overturning seas and rivers (idiom); fig. overwhelming
翻沉	to capsize and sink
翻湧	to roll over and over (of billows or clouds)
翻滾	to roll; to boil
翻炒	to stir-fry
翻然悔悟	to see the error of one's ways; to make a clean break with one's past
翻牆	lit. to climb over the wall
翻版	to reprint; reproduction; pirate copy
翻版碟	copy of DVD; pirate DVD
翻番	to double; to increase by a certain number of times
翻白眼	to roll one's eyes
翻盤	to make a comeback
翻看	to browse; to look over (books)
翻石鷸	(bird species of China) ruddy turnstone (Arenaria interpres)
翻空出奇	to overturn empty convention, and display originality (idiom); new and different ideas
翻筋斗	to tumble; to turn a somersault
翻箱倒櫃	to overturn trunks and boxes; to make a thorough search (idiom)
翻箱倒篋	to overturn trunks and boxes; to make a thorough search (idiom)
翻篇兒	to turn a page; (fig.) to turn over a new leaf
翻糖	(loanword) fondant
翻紅	(of a stock or index) to turn positive; to regain popularity
翻老皇曆	to look to the past for guidance (idiom)
翻老賬	to turn over old accounts; fig. to revive old quarrels
翻耕	to plow; to turn the soil
翻臉	to fall out with sb; to become hostile
翻臉不認人	to fall out with sb and become hostile
翻舊賬	to turn over old accounts; fig. to revive old quarrels
翻船	to capsize; (fig.) to suffer a setback or defeat
翻蓋	flip-top (mobile phone, handbag etc); to rebuild; to renovate
翻覆	to overturn (a vehicle); to capsize; to turn upside down
翻譯	to translate; to interpret; translator
翻譯家	translator (of writings)
翻譯者	translator; interpreter
翻越	to cross; to surmount; to transcend
翻跟斗	to turn a somersault
翻跟頭	to turn a somersault
翻身	to turn over (when lying); (fig.) to free oneself
翻車	(of a vehicle) to flip over; (fig.) to go wrong; to flop
翻車魚	ocean sunfish (Mola mola)
翻轉	to roll; to turn over; to invert
翻造	to rebuild; to renovate
翻遍	to rummage through; to turn everything over; to ransack
翻過	to turn over; to transform
翻過來	to overturn; to turn upside down
翻開	to open up
翻閱	to thumb through; to flip through (a book)
翻雲覆雨	to produce clouds with one turn of the hand and rain with another (idiom); fig. to shift one's ground
翻面	to flip sth over
翻頁	to turn a page
翻領	turndown collar; lapel
翻騰	(of water, waves, emotions etc) to churn; to surge; to seethe
翼	wing; area surrounding the bullseye of a target; to assist
翼側	flank (military)
翼城縣	Yicheng, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
翼子板	(PRC) fender (automotive)
翼展	wingspan
翼手龍	pterodactyl
翼瓣	(botany) alae; wing petals (of a papilionaceous flower)
翼翼	(literary) cautious; careful
翼膜	patagium
翼裝	wingsuit
翼龍	Dodge Nitro (abbr. for 道奇翼龍|道奇翼龙)
翽	noise of bird's wings
翾	flirtatious; short flight
翿	feather banner or fan
耀	brilliant; glorious
耀州區	Yaozhou, a district of Tongchuan City 銅川市|铜川市[Tong2 chuan1 Shi4], Shaanxi
耀德	to hold up as a virtuous example
耀斑	solar flare
耀武揚威	to show off one's military strength (idiom); to strut around; to bluff
耀眼	to dazzle; dazzling
耀西	Yoshi (Nintendo video game character)
老	prefix used before the surname of a person or a numeral indicating the order of birth of the children in a family or to indicate affection or familiarity
老一套	the same old stuff
老一輩	older generation
老丈	sir (respectful form of address for an old man)
老丈人	(coll.) father-in-law (wife's father)
老三篇	Lao San Pian, three short essays written by Mao Zedong before the PRC was established
老三色	the three plain colors used for clothing in the PRC in the 1960s: black, gray and blue
老不死	(derog.) old but still alive; old fart; old bastard
老中	(slang) Chinese people; we Chinese (often self-referential, ironic); China; the Chinese side
老么	(coll.) youngest child
老二	second-eldest child in a family; (euphemism) penis
老人	old man or woman; the elderly; one's aged parents or grandparents
老人家	polite term for old woman or man
老人院	nursing home; old people's home
老伯	uncle (polite form of address for older male)
老伯伯	grandpa (polite form of address for old man)
老伴	(of an elderly couple) husband or wife
老佛爺	title of respect for the queen mother or the emperor's father
老來俏	old person who dresses up as teenager; mutton dressed as lamb
老來少	old but young at heart
老來得子	to have a child late in life (esp. said of a father)
老例	custom; customary practice
老兄	elder brother (often used self-referentially)
老兒	father; husband; old man
老兩口	old married couple
老兩口兒	an old married couple
老公	(coll.) husband
老公公	old man; husband's father; father-in-law
老兵	old soldier; veteran
老到	experienced and careful
老化	(of a person, population or material) to age
老千	swindler; cheat (in gambling)
老半天	(coll.) a long time
老去	to get old
老友	old friend
老叟	old man
老古板	overly conservative; old-fashioned; old fogey
老古董	antique; old relic; (fig.) old-fashioned person or thing; old fogey
老司機	(coll.) an old hand at sth
老君	Laozi or Lao-tze (c. 500 BC), Chinese philosopher, founder of Taoism
老吾老，以及人之老	to honor old people as we do our own aged parents
老吾老，以及人之老，幼吾幼，以及人之幼	to honor old people as we do our own aged parents, and care for other's children as one's own
老哥	form of address for a (slightly) older man (esp. among males)
老土	old-fashioned; unstylish
老地方	same place as before; usual place; stomping ground
老城	old town; old district of a city
老城區	Laocheng, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
老境	advanced years; old age
老墨	(coll.) a Mexican
老外	(coll.) foreigner (esp. non Asian person); layman; amateur
老大	old age; very; eldest child in a family
老大不小	no longer a child (idiom)
老大哥	big brother
老大娘	old lady; Madam (polite address)
老大媽	"Madam" (affectionate term for an elderly woman)
老大徒傷悲	vain regrets of old age (idiom)
老大爺	uncle; grandpa
老天	God; Heavens
老天爺	God; Heavens
老天爺餓不死瞎家雀	lit. heaven won't let the sparrows go hungry (idiom)
老太	old lady
老太公	aged gentleman (dialect, respectful term)
老太太	elderly lady (respectful); esteemed mother
老太婆	old woman (at times contemptuous)
老太爺	elderly gentleman (respectful); esteemed father
老夫	I (spoken by an old man)
老夫少妻	older husband and much younger wife
老夫老妻	long-married couple
老套	hackneyed; well-worn (phrase etc); same old story
老套子	old methods; old habits
老奶奶	(coll.) father's father's mother; paternal great-grandmother
老奸巨猾	cunning; crafty; wily old fox
老好人	one who tries never to offend anybody
老妹	(dialect) younger sister; familiar form of address for a younger woman
老姥	old lady; (old woman's self-reference) I, me
老娘	my old mother; I, this old woman; my old lady (colloquial)
老婆	(coll.) wife
老婆孩子熱炕頭	wife, kids and a warm bed (idiom); the simple and good life
老婆本	savings a man puts aside for married life
老婆餅	"wife cake" – a thin, flaky Cantonese pastry filled with sweetened winter melon (or other mild sweet fillings)
老婦	elderly woman; I; me (used by elderly women)
老婦人	elderly woman
老媽	mother; mom
老媽子	older female servant; amah
老嫂子	(slang) effeminate man
老嫗	(literary) old woman
老子	Laozi or Lao-tze (c. 500 BC), Chinese philosopher, the founder of Taoism
老子英雄兒好漢，老子反動兒混蛋	If the father is a hero, the son is a real man. If the father is a reactionary, the son is a bastard. (Cultural Revolution slogan)
老字號	shop, firm, or brand of merchandise with a long-established reputation
老客	peddler; old or regular customer
老家	native place; place of origin; home state or region
老家伙	(coll.) old fellow; old codger
老家賊	(dialect) sparrow
老實	honest; sincere; well-behaved; naive; gullible
老實巴交	(coll.) docile; well-behaved; biddable
老實說	honestly speaking; to be frank, ...
老將	lit. old general
老小	the old and the young; the youngest member of the family
老小老小	(coll.) as one ages, one becomes more and more like a child
老少	the old and the young
老少咸宜	suitable for young and old
老少無欺	cheating neither old nor young
老少皆宜	suitable for both the young and the old
老少配	romantic relationship with a significant age gap
老山自行車館	Laoshan Velodrome, a Beijing 2008 Olympics venue
老巢	(fig.) lair; den; stronghold (esp. of criminals or hostile forces)
老己	(neologism, attested by 2025) oneself, treated as an old friend
老師	teacher
老帽兒	(dialect) country bumpkin; a hick
老年	elderly; old age; autumn of one's years
老年人	old people; the elderly
老年性痴獃症	senile dementia
老年斑	liver spot; age spot
老年期	old age
老年痴獃	senile dementia; Alzheimer's disease
老年痴獃症	senile dementia; Alzheimer's disease
老幾	where in the order of seniority among siblings?
老底	(coll.) one's past history (esp. embarrassing or private details)
老廣	(coll.) person from Guangdong province (esp. Cantonese)
老式	old-fashioned; old type; outdated
老弟	(affectionate form of address for a male who is not very much younger than oneself) my boy
老態	old and frail; decrepit; doddering
老態龍鍾	(idiom) doddering; senile
老成	mature; experienced; sophisticated
老成持重	old and wise; experienced and knowledgeable
老戲骨	(dialect) veteran actor; old trouper
老手	experienced person; an old hand at sth
老抽	dark soy sauce
老拙	old fart (usually in self-reference); geezer
老掉牙	very old; obsolete; out of date
老搭檔	longtime partner; longstanding collaborator
老摳	penny-pincher; miser
老撾	Laos
老於世故	experienced in the ways of the world (idiom); worldly-wise
老旦	old woman role in Chinese opera
老早	a long time ago
老是	always
老朋友	old friend; (slang) period; menstruation
老本	capital; assets; savings
老朽	decrepit and behind the times; old; useless
老東西	(derog.) old fool; old bastard
老框框	rigid conventions; reactionary framework
老梗	(Tw) unoriginal; hackneyed; (of a joke) old
老樣子	old situation; things as they were
老歌	oldie (song)
老死	to die of old age
老殘遊記	The Travels of Lao Tsan, novel by late Qing novelist Liu E 劉鶚|刘鹗[Liu2 E4]
老母	(coll.) mother; mom; (literary) elderly mother
老毛子	Westerner (esp. a Russian) (derog.)
老毛病	chronic illness; old weakness; chronic problem
老氣橫秋	old and decrepit; proud of one's age and experience (idiom)
老江湖	a much-travelled person, well acquainted with the ways of the world
老河口市	Laohekou, a county-level city in Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
老油子	(coll.) wily old fox; crafty fellow
老油條	old fox; slick customer
老派	old-fashioned; old-school
老漢	old man; I (an old man referring to himself)
老煙槍	heavy smoker; chain smoker; life-long smoker
老煙鬼	heavy smoker; chain smoker
老父	father; old man; venerable sir
老爸	father; dad
老爹	(dialect) father; old man; sir
老爺	(respectful) lord; master; (coll.) maternal grandfather
老爺子	my (your etc) old father; polite appellation for an elderly male
老爺嶺	Chinese name for Sichote-Alin mountain range in Russia's Primorsky Krai around Vladivostok
老爺爺	(polite) elderly man
老爺車	classic car
老牌	old, well-known brand; old style; old school
老牛吃嫩草	lit. an old cow eats young grass (idiom)
老牛破車	lit. old ox pulling a shabby cart (idiom); fig. slow and inefficient
老牛舐犢	lit. an old ox licking its calf (idiom)
老狐狸	(fig.) old fox; a wily, shrewd person
老玉米	(dialect) corn
老王賣瓜，自賣自誇	every potter praises his own pot (idiom); all one's geese are swans
老生	venerable middle-aged or elderly man, usually wearing an artificial beard (in Chinese opera)
老生常談	an old observation (idiom); a truism; banal comments
老當益壯	old but vigorous (idiom); hale and hearty despite the years
老登	(derog.) older man (esp. one seen as out of touch)
老百姓	ordinary people; the "person in the street"
老皇曆	(lit.) past years' almanac
老眼昏花	blurred vision of an old person (idiom)
老神在在	(Tw) calm; unperturbed (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [lāu-sîn-tsāi-tsāi])
老窩	nest; den (for animals); (fig.) lair; hideout (for criminals)
老等	to wait patiently; heron
老粗	uneducated person; yokel; boor
老糊塗	dotard
老練	seasoned; experienced
老總	boss; sir (person with a leading role in an organization)
老繭	callus (patch or hardened skin); corns (on feet); also 老趼
老美	(coll.) an American; person from the United States
老翁	old man
老耄	dim sight of the aged; doddering; senile
老者	old man; elderly man
老聃	another name for Laozi 老子[Lao3 zi3]
老臉	self-respect of old person; face
老臘肉	(coll.) experienced and usually well-positioned middle-aged man
老舊	outmoded; old-fashioned
老舍	Lao She (1899–1966), Chinese novelist and dramatist
老花	presbyopia
老花眼	presbyopia
老花鏡	presbyopic glasses
老莊	Laozi and Zhuangzi (or Lao-tze and Chuang-tze), the founders of Daoism
老著臉	shamelessly
老虎	tiger
老虎伍茲	Eldrick "Tiger" Woods (1975-), American golfer
老虎凳	tiger bench (torture method in which the victim sits with legs extended horizontally along a bench, upper legs held down with straps while bricks are inserted under the feet, forcing the knee joint to bend in reverse)
老虎機	slot machine
老虎灶	old-style large kitchen stove
老虎菜	tiger salad, a northeast China dish usually consisting of hot pepper, cucumber, cilantro and leek
老虎鉗	vise; pincer pliers
老處女	unmarried old woman; spinster
老蚌生珠	lit. an old oyster producing a pearl (idiom)
老街	Lao Cai, Vietnam; Laokai or Laukkai, Burma (Myanmar)
老表	(coll.) male cousin through a female relative
老衲	(literary) elderly Buddhist monk
老視	presbyopia
老視眼	presbyopia
老話	an old saying
老調重彈	to play the same old tune (idiom); unoriginal
老謀深算	rigorous schemes and deep foresight (idiom); astute and circumspect
老譜	old ways; old habit
老資格	veteran
老賬	lit. old account; old debt; fig. old scores to settle
老賴	(coll.) debt dodger
老趼	callus; corns (on the feet)
老路	old road; familiar way; beaten track
老輩	the older generation; ancestors
老辣	shrewd and ruthless; efficient and unscrupulous
老遠	very far away
老邁	aged; senile
老邊區	Laobian, a district of Yingkou City 營口市|营口市[Ying2 kou3 Shi4], Liaoning
老鄉	fellow townsman; fellow villager; sb from the same hometown
老酒	wine, esp. Shaoxing wine
老錢	old money; (attributive) characterized by understated luxury and elite taste
老鐵	(slang) very close friend; bro
老闆	boss; proprietor
老闆娘	female proprietor; lady boss; boss's wife
老頑固	(derog.) old-fashioned and stubborn person; stick in the mud
老頭	old fellow; old man; father
老頭子	(coll.) old man; (said of an aging husband) my old man
老頭樂	backscratcher (made from bamboo etc)
老饕	glutton
老馬嘶風	old horse sniffs the wind (idiom); fig. aged person with great aspirations
老馬戀棧	lit. the old horse loves his stable
老馬識途	an old horse knows the way (idiom); an experienced worker knows what to do
老驥	old thoroughbred; fig. aged person with great aspirations
老驥伏櫪	lit. an old steed in the stable still aspires to gallop 1000 miles (idiom); fig. aged person with great aspirations
老驥伏櫪，志在千里	lit. an old steed in the stable still aspires to gallop 1000 miles (idiom); fig. old people may still cherish high aspirations
老驥嘶風	old steed sniffs the wind (idiom); fig. aged person with great aspirations
老骨頭	weary old body (colloquial term, used jocularly or irreverently)
老鳥	(coll.) old hand; veteran
老鴇	female brothel keeper
老鴰	(dialect) crow; raven
老鵰	vulture
老鷹	(coll.) eagle; hawk; any similar bird of prey
老鷹星雲	Eagle Nebula, aka Star Queen Nebula, M16
老麵	sourdough starter
老黑	(coll.) black person
老鼠	rat; mouse (CL:隻|只[zhi1])
老鼠倉	(finance) "rat trading", a form of front-running in which a fund manager secretly builds a position in a security at low prices using personal funds, then uses public funds to drive up the price
老鼠拉龜，無從下手	like mice trying to pull a turtle, nowhere to get a hand grip (idiom)
老鼠拖木鍁，大頭在後頭	when the mice drag a shovel, the biggest thing comes second
老鼠洞	mouse hole
老鼠過街，人人喊打	lit. when a rat crosses the street, people chase it down (idiom)
老鼻子	many
老齡	old age; aging; aged
老齡化	aging (population)
考	to check; to verify; to test
考上	to gain admission or secure a position by passing an exam
考中	to pass an exam
考克斯	(surname) Cox
考克斯報告	Cox Report
考入	to pass entrance exam; to enter college after a competitive exam
考公	to sit for a civil service exam
考分	grade; exam mark
考勤	to check attendance (at school or workplace)
考勤簿	attendance record book
考勤表	attendance sheet
考區	the exam area; the district where an exam takes place
考卷	exam paper
考取	to pass an entrance exam; to be admitted to
考古	archaeology; to engage in archaeological studies
考古學	archaeology
考古學家	archaeologist
考古家	archaeologist
考古題	questions from previous years' exams (Tw)
考場	exam room
考完	to finish an exam
考官	an examiner (for tests, interviews etc)
考察	to inspect; to observe and study; on-the-spot investigation
考察團	inspection team
考察船	survey ship
考察隊	investigation team; scientific expedition
考工記	The Artificer's Record, a technology treaty compiled towards the end of the Spring and Autumn period
考慮	to think over; to consider; consideration
考拉	(loanword) koala
考據	textual criticism
考文垂	Coventry, city in the West Midlands, England
考期	the exam period; the exam date
考本	to take a relevant exam for a certificate (e.g. driving test, license etc)
考查	to investigate; to study
考核	to examine; to check up on; to assess
考波什堡	Kaposvár in southwest Hungary, capital of Somogy County 紹莫吉州|绍莫吉州[Shao4 mo4 ji2 Zhou1]
考生	exam candidate; student whose name has been put forward for an exam
考研	to sit an entrance exam for a graduate program
考砸	to flunk; to fail a test
考究	to investigate; to check and research; exquisite
考紀	examination discipline
考級	to take a test to establish one's level of proficiency; placement test
考綱	exam outline (outline of the content of an exam, published prior to the exam as a guide for examinees) (abbr. for 考試大綱|考试大纲[kao3 shi4 da4 gang1])
考編	(coll.) to sit civil service or public institution recruitment exams (cf. 編制|编制[bian1 zhi4])
考績	to check up on sb's achievements
考訂	to check and correct
考評	evaluation; to investigate and evaluate
考試	to take an exam; exam
考試卷	exam paper; test paper (CL:張|张[zhang1])
考試院	Examination Yuan, the qualification and appointment board under the constitution of Republic of China, then of Taiwan
考證	to do textual research; to make textual criticism
考進	to gain entry by passing an exam; to be admitted to (a college etc)
考過	to pass (an exam)
考選部	Ministry of Examination, Taiwan
考量	to consider; to give serious consideration to sth; consideration
考霸	"exam master", sb who takes many exams and aces all of them
考題	exam question
考驗	to test; to put to the test; trial
考點	exam site; test center; key topic (to be tested in an exam)
耄	extremely aged (in one's 80s or 90s); octogenarian; nonagenarian
耄倪	old and young
耄思	to be upset or disturbed
耄期	(literary) one's 80s or 90s
耄耋	extremely aged; gray and venerable
耄耋之年	old age (in one's 80s, 90s, or more)
耄齡	old age; eighties, nineties, or greater (of age)
者	(after a verb or adjective) one who (is) ...
者流	(after a personal attribute) people who have that attribute; people of that type
耆	man of sixty or seventy
耆宿	venerable old person
耇	wrinkled face of the elderly
耋	aged; in one's eighties
而	and; as well as; and so
而且	(not only ...) but also; moreover; in addition; furthermore
而今	now; at the present (time)
而已	that's all; nothing more
而後	after that; then
而是	rather
而立之年	(idiom) the age of 30
而言	(typically preceded by 就…[jiu4 xx5] or 對…|对…[dui4 xx5] etc) as far as ... is concerned; speaking in terms of ...
耍	to play with; to wield; to act (cool etc)
耍嘴皮	to show off with clever talk; big-headed; a smart-ass
耍嘴皮子	to talk glibly; to talk big; to be all talk
耍子	to play; to have fun
耍寶	to show off; to put on a show to amuse others
耍小聰明	to get smart; to resort to petty tricks
耍廢	(Tw) (slang) to pass time idly; to chill; to hang out
耍弄	to play with; to engage in; to resort to
耍得團團轉	to fool; to dupe
耍手腕	to play tricks; to maneuver
耍滑	to resort to tricks; to act in a slippery way
耍潑	(dialect) to make an unreasonable scene
耍無賴	to act shamelessly
耍猴	to get a monkey to perform tricks; to put on a monkey show
耍獅子	to perform a lion dance
耍私情	the play of passions; carried away by passion (e.g. to commit a crime)
耍筆桿	to craft facile prose; to play around with words
耍罈子	to perform a jar juggling and balancing act
耍脾氣	to go into a huff
耍花招	to play tricks on sb
耍花槍	to play tricks; to dupe
耍花樣	to play tricks on sb
耍貧嘴	(coll.) to wag one's tongue; to indulge in idle gossip and silly jokes
耍賴	to act shamelessly
耍錢	(coll.) to gamble
耍鬧	to skylark; to play boisterously; to fool around
耏	surname Er
耐	(bound form) to bear; to endure; to withstand
耐久	durable; long-lasting
耐人尋味	(idiom) thought-provoking; to provide food for thought
耐候	weather-resistant; resistant to weathering
耐克	Nike, Inc.
耐力	endurance
耐力賽	endurance race
耐勞	hardy; able to resist hardship
耐受	to tolerate; endurance
耐受力	tolerance; ability to survive; hardiness
耐受性	tolerance (to heat, acid etc); resistance
耐寒	coldproof; resistant to cold
耐心	to be patient; patience
耐心煩	(coll.) patience
耐性	patience
耐操	(Tw) (of a person) to have stamina; (of a product) durable
耐旱	drought tolerant
耐水	waterproof
耐水性	waterproof
耐洗	wash-resistant
耐洗滌性	washing or color fastness; launderability
耐澇	waterlogging tolerant
耐火	refractory (material); fire-resistant
耐火土	fire clay
耐火磚	refractory brick; firebrick
耐煩	to put up with (sth disagreeable)
耐熱	heat resistant; fireproof
耐用	durable
耐用品	durable goods
耐看	able to withstand careful appreciation; well worth a second look
耐磨	wear resistant
耐穿	durable; proof against wear and tear
耐腐蝕	proof against corrosion
耐藥性	drug resistance; drug tolerance (medicine)
耐蝕	to resist corrosion
耐酸	acid-resistant
耐高溫	heat-resistant
耐鹼	alkali-resistant
耑	start; origin
耒	plow
耒耜	plow
耒陽市	Leiyang, a county-level city in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
耔	hoe up soil around plants
耕	to plow; to till
耕作	to farm; to cultivate the land; to work in the fields
耕地	arable land; to plow land
耕奴	agricultural slave; serf
耕犁	plow
耕田	to cultivate soil; to till fields
耕畜	draft animal
耕種	to till; to cultivate
耕者有其田	"land to the tiller", post-Liberation land reform movement instigated by the CCP
耕耘	plowing and weeding; farm work; fig. to work or study diligently
耕讀	to be both a farmer and a scholar
耖	harrow-like implement for pulverizing clods of soil
耗	to waste; to spend; to consume
耗力	to require much effort
耗失	(of sth that should be retained: nutrients, moisture, heat etc) to be lost
耗子	(dialect) mouse; rat
耗子尾汁	you're on your own (pun on 好自為之|好自为之[hao3 zi4 wei2 zhi1])
耗損	to waste
耗散	to dissipate; to squander
耗時	time-consuming; to take a period of (x amount of time)
耗時耗力	requiring much time and effort
耗材	consumables; to consume raw materials
耗油量	fuel consumption
耗盡	to exhaust; to use up; to deplete
耗能	to consume energy
耗費	to waste; to spend; to consume
耗資	to spend; expenditure; to cost
耗電	to consume electricity; power consumption
耘	to weed
耙	a hoe; to harrow
耙地	to harrow; to break the ground with a hoe
耙子	a rake
耙耳朵	(dialect) henpecked; to be under one's wife's thumb
耜	plow; plowshare
耝	to plow; (ancient place name)
耞	flail (for threshing grain)
耠	a hoe; to hoe; to loosen the soil with a hoe
耡	hoe
耤	plow
耦	a pair; a mate; a couple
耦合	coupling (physics); copula (statistics); to be coupled (with sth)
耦園	Couple's Retreat Garden in Suzhou, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
耦居	to live together (as husband and wife)
耦語	to have a tete-à-tete; to whisper to each other
耨	hoe; to hoe; to weed
耩	to plow; to sow
耪	to hoe
耬	drill for sowing grain
耮	a kind of farm tool (in the form of a rectangular frame) used to level the ground
耰	harrow
耲	(agriculture) to cultivate with a harrow
耲耙	a kind of harrow used in north-east China to cultivate or sow
耳	ear; handle (archaeology); and that is all (Classical Chinese)
耳下腺	subauricular gland; parotid gland (salivary gland in the cheek)
耳光	a slap on the face
耳刮子	(coll.) a slap on the side of the head
耳力	hearing ability
耳垂	earlobe
耳垢	earwax
耳塞	earplug; earphone
耳墜子	eardrops (pendant jewelry); earrings
耳套	earmuff
耳子	handle (on a pot)
耳屎	earwax; cerumen
耳廓	outer ear; auricle; pinna
耳廓狐	fennec; Vulpes zerda
耳挖	earpick; curette
耳挖勺	(dialect) earpick; curette
耳挖子	earpick; curette
耳提面命	to give sincere advice (idiom); to exhort earnestly
耳摑子	slap
耳旁風	lit. wind past your ear; fig. sth you don't pay much attention to
耳朵	ear; handle (on a cup)
耳朵眼兒	earhole; ear piercing hole; earring hole
耳朵軟	credulous
耳根	base of the ear; ear; (Buddhism) sense of hearing
耳根子	ear
耳根子軟	credulous
耳根清淨	lit. ears pure and peaceful (idiom)
耳根軟	credulous
耳機	headphones; earphones; telephone receiver
耳殼	outer ear; auricle; pinna
耳洞	ear piercing hole; earring hole
耳源性	otogenic
耳源性眩暈	aural vertigo
耳溫槍	ear thermometer
耳濡目染	to be influenced
耳熟	to sound familiar; familiar-sounding
耳熟能詳	what's frequently heard can be repeated in detail (idiom)
耳片	tab (of a web browser)
耳環	earring
耳畔	ears
耳痛	earache
耳目	eyes and ears; sb's attention or notice; information
耳目一新	a pleasant change; a breath of fresh air; refreshing
耳石	otolith
耳石症	benign paroxysmal positional vertigo; BPPV
耳罩	earmuffs
耳聞	to hear of; to hear about
耳聞不如目見	seeing sth for oneself is better than hearing about it from others
耳聞目睹	to witness personally
耳聰目明	sharp ears and keen eyes (idiom); keen and alert; perceptive
耳聽為虛，眼見為實	(idiom) what one hears may be unreliable, but what one sees is true; seeing is believing
耳聾	deaf
耳背	to be hearing impaired
耳膜	eardrum; tympanum (of the middle ear); tympanic membrane
耳蝸	(anatomy) cochlea
耳蠟	earwax; cerumen
耳語	to whisper in sb's ear; a whisper
耳軟	credulous
耳返	in-ear monitor (abbr. for 耳機返聽系統|耳机返听系统[er3 ji1 fan3 ting1 xi4 tong3]) (contrasted with 地返[di4 fan3])
耳道	(anatomy) ear canal
耳邊風	lit. wind past your ear; fig. sth you don't pay much attention to
耳郭	outer ear; auricle; pinna
耳釘	stud earring
耳針	auriculotherapy (ear acupuncture)
耳順之年	(idiom) 60 years old
耳飾	ear ornament (earring, eardrop, stud etc)
耳髮	(men) sideburns
耳鬢廝磨	lit. to play together ear to ear and temple to temple (idiom)
耳鳴	tinnitus
耳麥	headphones; earphones
耳鼓	eardrum; tympanum (of the middle ear); tympanic membrane
耳鼻咽喉	ear nose and throat; otolaryngology
耵	used in 耵聹|耵聍[ding1 ning2]; Taiwan pr. [ding3]
耵聹	earwax; cerumen
耶	final particle indicating enthusiasm etc
耶利哥	Jericho (Biblical city)
耶利米	Jeremy or Jeremiah (name)
耶利米哀歌	the Lamentations of Jeremiah
耶利米書	Book of Jeremiah
耶和華	Jehovah (biblical name for God, Hebrew: YHWH)
耶和華見證人	Jehovah's Witnesses
耶哥尼雅	Jechoniah or Jeconiah (son of Josiah)
耶弗他	Jephthah (Hebrew: Yiftach) son of Gilead, Judges 11-foll.
耶律	two-character surname Yelü
耶律大石	Yollig Taxin or Yelü Dashi (1087-1143), Chinese-educated Khitan leader, founder of Western Liao 西遼|西辽 in Central Asia
耶律楚材	Yelü Chucai (1190-1244), Khitan statesman and advisor to Genghis Khan and Ögödei Khan, known for convincing the Mongols to tax the conquered population of the north China plains rather than slaughter it
耶戶	Jehu (842-815 BC), Israelite king, prominent character in 2 Kings 9:10
耶洗別	Jezebel, wife of Ahab and mother of Ahaziah, major character in 1 Kings 16:31, 19:1, 21 and 2 Kings 9, killed by Jehu 耶戶|耶户[Ye1 hu4]
耶烈萬	Yerevan, capital of Armenia; also written 埃里溫|埃里温[Ai1 li3 wen1]
耶穌	Jesus
耶穌光	crepuscular rays; sunbeams
耶穌升天節	Ascension Day (Christian festival forty days after Easter)
耶穌受難節	Good Friday
耶穌基督	Jesus Christ
耶穌基督後期聖徒教會	The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
耶穌基督末世聖徒教會	The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
耶穌教	Protestantism
耶穌會	The Jesuits (Society of Jesus)
耶穌會士	a Jesuit; member of Society of Jesus
耶穌降臨節	Advent (Christian period of 4 weeks before Christmas)
耶萊娜·揚科維奇	Jelena Jankovic (1985-), Serbian tennis player
耶西	Jesse (son of Obed)
耶誕節	(Tw) Christmas
耶路撒冷	Jerusalem
耶酥會	the Society of Jesus; the Jesuits
耶酥會士	a Jesuit
耶魯	Yale
耶魯大學	Yale University
耷	(literary) big ears; (bound form) to droop
耷拉	to droop; to hang down; to dangle
耷著	to droop; to hang down; to dangle
耽	to indulge in; to delay
耽擱	to delay; to hold up; to tarry; to stay; to put off
耽溺	to indulge in; to wallow in
耽美	(slang) boys' love, aka BL (genre of homoerotic online literature)
耽誤	to delay; to hold up; to waste time
耿	(literary) bright; brilliant; honest; upright
耿介	upright and outstanding
耿直	honest; frank; candid
耿耿	bright; devoted; having sth on one's mind
耿耿於懷	to take troubles to heart (idiom); brooding
耿餅	dried persimmon (from Geng village, Heze 荷澤|荷泽, Shandong)
耿馬傣族佤族自治縣	Gengma Dai and Va Autonomous County, in Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
聃	ears without rim
聆	(literary) to hear; to listen
聆聽	to listen (respectfully)
聆訊	hearing (law)
聊	(coll.) to chat; (literary) temporarily; for a while
聊且	for the time being; tentatively
聊以	to use it (or do it) for the purpose of (allaying hunger, relieving boredom etc) to some extent
聊以塞責	in order to minimally fulfill one's responsibilities
聊以自慰	to find some consolation (idiom); to find relief in
聊以解悶	to use it for the purpose of relieving the tedium to some extent
聊備	to provide on a makeshift basis; to use temporarily as
聊備一格	to use as a stopgap; to make a perfunctory gesture; token; nominal
聊勝於無	better than nothing (idiom)
聊城市	Liaocheng, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
聊天	to chat; to gossip
聊天室	chat room
聊敘	to speak tentatively
聊生	to earn a living (esp. with negative)
聊表心意	(idiom) to offer as a small token of one's feelings
聊賴	to suffer tedium
聊騷	to chat flirtatiously
聊齋志異	Strange Stories from a Chinese Studio, Qing dynasty book of tales by 蒲松齡|蒲松龄[Pu2 Song1 ling2]
聎	tinnitus
聒	raucous; clamor; unpleasantly noisy
聒噪	a clamor; noisy
聒耳	raucous; ear-splitting
聖	(bound form) peerless (in wisdom, moral virtue, skill etc)
聖上	courtier's or minister's form of address for the current Emperor
聖事	Holy sacrament; Christian rite (esp. Catholic)
聖人	sage; the Sage (i.e. Confucius)
聖代	(loanword) sundae
聖伯多祿大殿	St Peter's Basilica, Vatican City
聖但尼	St Denis or St Dennis
聖何塞	San Jose
聖佛明節	Fiesta de Saint Fermin, festival held annually in Pamplona, Spain
聖保羅	St Paul; São Paulo, city in Brazil
聖像	(old) image of Confucius; holy image (of Buddha or Jesus Christ etc)
聖僧	senior monk
聖克魯斯	Santa Cruz
聖克魯斯島	Santa Cruz Island, off the California coast
聖典	sacred writing; canon
聖凱瑟琳	Saint Catherine
聖勞倫斯河	St Lawrence River, Canada
聖化	sanctify; sanctification; consecrate
聖君	sage
聖哈辛托	San Jacinto
聖哉經	Sanctus (section of Catholic mass)
聖哲	sage
聖善	supreme goodness; (respectful term for sb's mother)
聖喬治	St George
聖地	holy land (of a religion); sacred place; shrine
聖地亞哥	Santiago, capital of Chile; San Diego, California
聖地牙哥	(Tw) San Diego, California; Santiago, capital of Chile
聖城	Holy City
聖基茨和尼維斯	Saint Kitts and Nevis
聖塔倫	Santarém (Portugal); Santarém (Brazil)
聖多明各	Santo Domingo, capital of the Dominican Republic
聖多明哥	(Tw) Santo Domingo, capital of Dominican Republic
聖多美	Sao Tome, capital of Sao Tome and Principe
聖多美和普林西比	São Tomé and Príncipe
聖大非	Santa Fe
聖奧古斯丁	St Augustine
聖女果	cherry tomato
聖女貞德	Joan of Arc (1412-1431), French heroine and liberator, executed as a witch by the Burgundians and English
聖嬰	El Niño (meteorology); Holy Infant (Christianity)
聖子	Holy Son; Jesus Christ; God the Son (in the Christian Trinity)
聖安地列斯斷層	San Andreas Fault, California; also written 聖安德列斯斷層|圣安德列斯断层
聖安多尼堂區	St Anthony Parish (Macau); Freguesia de Santo António
聖安德列斯斷層	San Andreas Fault, California
聖安德魯	St Andrew
聖安東尼奧	San Antonio, Texas
聖帕特里克	Saint Patrick
聖廟	shrine to a sage (esp. Confucius)
聖彼得	Saint Peter
聖彼得堡	Saint Petersburg (city in Russia)
聖徒	saint
聖德克旭貝里	(Antoine de) Saint-Exupéry
聖德太子	Prince Shōtoku Taiji (574-621), major Japanese statesman and reformer of the Asuka period 飛鳥時代|飞鸟时代[Fei1 niao3 Shi2 dai4], proponent of state Buddhism, portrayed as Buddhist saint
聖心	Sacred Heart (Christian)
聖心節	Feast of the Sacred Heart
聖戰	Holy war; jihad
聖手	divine physician; sage doctor; highly skilled practitioner
聖文森及格瑞那丁	Saint Vincent and the Grenadines (Tw)
聖文森和格林納丁	St Vincent and Grenadines, Caribbean island in Lesser Antilles
聖文森特和格林納丁斯	Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
聖旨	imperial edict
聖明	enlightened sage; brilliant master (flattering words applied to ruler)
聖朝	the current imperial dynasty; one's own court
聖杯	Holy Grail
聖歌	hymn
聖殿	temple
聖母	the Virgin Mary
聖母升天節	Assumption of the Virgin Mary (Christian festival on 15th August)
聖母婊	(Internet slang) sanctimonious bitch
聖母峰	(Tw) Mount Everest
聖母教堂	Church of Our Lady; Frauenkirche
聖母瑪利亞	Mary (mother of Jesus)
聖水	holy water
聖油	chrism; holy anointing oil
聖洗	baptism (Christian ceremony)
聖渦	dimples of Venus; back dimples
聖潔	pure and holy
聖潘克勒斯站	Saint Pancras (London railway station)
聖火	sacred fire; (esp.) the Olympic flame
聖灰瞻禮日	Ash Wednesday
聖灰節	Ash Wednesday (first day of Lent)
聖燭節	Candlemas (Christian Festival on 2nd February)
聖父	Holy Father; God the Father (in the Christian Trinity)
聖王	sage ruler
聖皮埃爾和密克隆	Saint-Pierre and Miquelon
聖盤	Holy Grail
聖盧西亞	Saint Lucia
聖盧西亞島	Saint Lucia
聖祖	Shengzu, temple name of the second Qing emperor, known as the Kangxi Emperor (1654-1722)
聖神	feudal term of praise for ruler, king or emperor
聖神降臨	Whit Sunday (Christian Festival celebrating the Holy Spirit)
聖神降臨週	Whitsuntide
聖禮	Holy sacrament; Christian rite (esp. Protestant)
聖筊	(folk religion) favorable divination result from casting moon blocks 筊杯[jiao3 bei1] (one flat side and one rounded side up); affirmative response from a deity
聖約	covenant
聖約瑟夫	Saint Joseph
聖約翰	Saint John
聖約翰斯	St John's, capital of Labrador and Newfoundland province, Canada
聖納帕	Agia Napa, Cyprus; Ayia Napa, Cyprus
聖索非亞	Hagia Sophia (Greek: Holy wisdom)
聖索非亞大教堂	Hagia Sophia (the main cathedral of Constantinople, subsequently the major mosque of Istanbul)
聖經	the Confucian classics; (Christianity, Judaism) the holy scriptures
聖經外傳	Apocrypha; biography external to the classics
聖經賢傳	lit. holy scripture and biography of sage (idiom); refers to Confucian canonical texts
聖者	holy one; saint
聖職	priesthood
聖胎	immortal body (of born again Daoist)
聖胡安	San Juan, capital of Puerto Rico
聖膏油	chrism; holy anointing oil
聖荷西	(Tw) San Jose
聖菲	Santa Fe
聖薩爾瓦多	San Salvador, capital of El Salvador
聖藥	panacea
聖訓	sage's instructions; imperial edict
聖詩	hymn
聖誕	Christmas; birthday of reigning Emperor; Confucius' birthday
聖誕前夕	Christmas eve
聖誕卡	Christmas card
聖誕島	Christmas Island, Australia
聖誕帽	Santa hat
聖誕快樂	Merry Christmas
聖誕樹	Christmas tree
聖誕節	Christmas time; Christmas season; Christmas
聖誕紅	poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima)
聖誕老人	Father Christmas; Santa Claus
聖誕花	poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima)
聖誕頌	A Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens
聖諭	imperial edict
聖賢	a sage; wise and holy man; virtuous ruler
聖賢孔子鳥	Confuciusornis sanctus (Jurassic fossil bird)
聖賢書	holy book
聖赫勒拿	St Helena
聖赫勒拿島	Saint Helena
聖跡	holy relic; miracle
聖路易斯	St Louis, large city in eastern Missouri
聖躬	the Emperor's body; Holy body; the current reigning Emperor
聖雄	sage hero; refers to Mahatma Gandhi
聖露西亞	Saint Lucia (Tw)
聖靈	Holy Ghost; Holy Spirit
聖靈降臨	Pentecost
聖餐	Holy Communion; Eucharist
聖餐檯	(Christian) altar
聖馬利諾	San Marino (Tw)
聖馬力諾	San Marino
聖馬洛	Saint-Malo, port city in Brittany, France
聖體	the Emperor's body; Jesus' body; communion wafer (in Christian mass)
聖體節	Corpus Christi (Catholic festival on second Thursday after Whit Sunday)
聖體血	the body and blood of Christ; Holy communion
聘	to employ; to appoint; (bound form) to betroth
聘任	to appoint (to a position); appointed
聘問	international exchange of visits; to visit as envoy
聘娶婚	formal betrothal (in which the boy's family sends presents to the girl's family)
聘書	letter of appointment; contract
聘用	to employ; to hire
聘禮	betrothal gift
聘請	to engage; to hire (a lawyer etc)
聘金	betrothal money (given to the bride's family)
聚	to assemble; to gather (transitive or intransitive); (chemistry) poly-
聚丙烯	polypropylene
聚乙烯	polythene; polyethylene
聚光	to focus light
聚光太陽能	concentrating solar power (CSP)
聚光燈	spotlight
聚友	MySpace (social networking website)
聚合	to bring together; to combine into a whole; (chemistry) to polymerize
聚合作用	polymerization
聚合物	polymer
聚合酶	polymerase (enzyme)
聚合體	aggregate; polymer
聚四氟乙烯	polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) (often referred to by the trademark Teflon)
聚在一起	to get together
聚夥	to band together (often for violent or unlawful purposes); to gang up
聚寶盆	(mythology) treasure bowl; (fig.) cornucopia; abundant source of wealth or other valuable resources
聚少離多	(of a husband and wife etc) to spend more time apart than together; to see each other very little
聚居	to inhabit a region (esp. ethnic group); to congregate
聚居地	inhabited land; habitat
聚攏	to gather together
聚散	coming together and separating; aggregation and dissipation
聚斂	to gather; to accumulate; (esp.) to amass wealth by heavy taxation or other unscrupulous means
聚晤	to meet (as a social group)
聚會	party; gathering; to meet
聚殲	(military) to surround and annihilate
聚氨酯	polyurethane
聚氯乙烯	polyvinyl chloride (PVC)
聚沙成塔	(lit.) many sand grains accumulate to form a tower (idiom)
聚焦	to focus (light, electron beam etc); to focus attention
聚甲醛	polyformaldehyde (CH2O)n
聚眾	to gather a crowd; to muster
聚眾淫亂罪	group licentiousness (offense punishable by up to five years in prison in the PRC)
聚碳酸酯	polycarbonate
聚積	to accumulate; to collect; to build up
聚精會神	to concentrate one's attention (idiom)
聚義	(literary) to band together in a just cause
聚苯乙烯	polystyrene
聚落	settlement; dwelling place; town
聚螢映雪	lit. to collect fireflies and study by their light (idiom); fig. ambitious student from impoverished background
聚訟紛紜	(of a body of people) to offer all kinds of different opinions (idiom)
聚談	to have a discussion in a group; to have a chat with sb
聚議	to meet for negotiation
聚變	(physics) to undergo fusion
聚變反應	nuclear fusion
聚變武器	fusion-type weapon
聚賭	to gather for a gambling session
聚酯	polyester
聚酯樹脂	polyester resin
聚酯纖維	polyester fiber
聚酰亞胺	polyimide
聚酰胺	(chemistry) polyamide
聚集	to assemble; to gather
聚頭	to meet; to get together
聚飲	to gather for drinks
聚餐	to get together for a meal; to dine together
聚首	to gather; to meet
聚點	meeting point; accumulation point (math.)
聚齊	to assemble (in one place)
聝	cut off the left ear of the slain
聞	to hear; news; well-known
聞一多	Wen Yiduo (1899-1946), poet and patriotic fighter, executed by Guomindang in Kunming
聞一知十	lit. to hear one and know ten (idiom); fig. explain one thing and (he) understands everything
聞上去	to smell of sth; to smell like sth
聞人	famous person
聞出	to identify by smell; to detect a scent; to sniff out
聞到	to smell; to sniff sth out; to perceive by smelling
聞名	well-known; famous; renowned
聞名不如見面	knowing sb by their reputation can't compare to meeting them in person (idiom)
聞名於世	world-famous
聞名遐邇	(idiom) to be famous far and wide
聞喜縣	Wenxi, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
聞悉	to hear (about sth)
聞所未聞	unheard of; an extremely rare and unprecedented event
聞見	to smell; to hear; knowledge
聞言	to have heard what was said
聞訊	to receive news (of)
聞診	(TCM) auscultation and smelling, one of the four methods of diagnosis 四診|四诊[si4 zhen3]
聞過則喜	to accept criticism gladly (humble expr.)
聞達	illustrious and influential; well-known
聞雞起舞	to start practicing at the first crow of the cock (idiom)
聞風先遁	to flee at hearing the news (idiom)
聞風喪膽	hear the wind and lose gall (idiom); terror-stricken at the news
聞風而動	to respond instantly; to act at once on hearing the news
聯	(bound form) to ally oneself with; to unite; to combine; to join
聯俄	alliance with Russia (e.g. of early Chinese communists)
聯保	joint guarantee (finance, law)
聯動	(of the parts of a machine) to move together
聯合	to combine; to join; unite
聯合公報	joint announcement
聯合包裹服務公司	United Parcel Service (UPS)
聯合古大陸	Pangea or Pangaea
聯合品牌	to cobrand
聯合國	United Nations
聯合國兒童基金會	United Nations Children's Fund; UNICEF
聯合國大會	United Nations General Assembly
聯合國安全理事會	United Nations Security Council
聯合國憲章	United Nations charter
聯合國教科文組織	UNESCO, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
聯合國氣候變化框架公約	United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
聯合國海洋法公約	United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
聯合國環境規劃署	United Nations Environment Program (UNEP)
聯合國秘書處	United Nations Secretariat
聯合國糧農組織	Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
聯合國開發計劃署	United Nations Development Program
聯合國難民事務高級專員辦事處	Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
聯合報	United Daily News, Taiwan newspaper
聯合式合成詞	coordinative compound word
聯合技術公司	United Technologies Corporation
聯合收割機	combine (i.e. combine harvester)
聯合政府	coalition government
聯合會	federation
聯合王國	United Kingdom
聯合組織	syndicate
聯合聲明	joint declaration
聯合自強	to combine together for self-improvement
聯合艦隊	combined fleet
聯合軍演	joint military exercise
聯名	jointly (signed, declared, sponsored)
聯名信	joint letter
聯大	abbr. for 聯合國大會|联合国大会[Lian2 he2 guo2 Da4 hui4], United Nations General Assembly
聯姻	related by marriage; to connect by marriage (families, work units)
聯宗	combined branches of a clan
聯席會議	joint conference
聯席董事	associate director
聯想	to associate (cognitively); to make an associative connection
聯想學習	associative learning
聯想起	to associate; to think of
聯想集團	Lenovo Group (PRC computer firm)
聯手	lit. to join hands; to act together
聯播	to broadcast over a network; (radio or TV) hookup; simulcast
聯星	binary star
聯機	online; network; to connect online
聯機分析處理	(computing) OLAP (online analytical processing)
聯機遊戲	a network computer game
聯歡	to have a get-together; celebration; party
聯歡會	social gathering; party
聯氨	hydrazine
聯營	joint venture; under joint management
聯產	co-production; cooperative production
聯產到勞	to pay sb according to their productivity
聯產到戶	household responsibility system, introduced in the early 1980s, under which each rural household could freely decide what to produce and how to sell, as long as it fulfilled its quota of products to the state
聯盟	alliance; union; coalition
聯盟號	Soyuz (union), Russian spacecraft series
聯立方程式	(math.) simultaneous equations; system of equations
聯結	to combine; to join; to link
聯結主義	connectionism
聯結車	(Tw) 18-wheeler; big rig; semi-trailer
聯絡	to get in touch with; to contact; to stay in contact (with)
聯絡人	(Tw) contact person
聯絡官	liaison officer
聯絡簿	contact book
聯網	to connect (or be connected) to a network; to network
聯綿詞	two-syllable word featuring alliteration or rhyme, such as 玲瓏|玲珑[ling2 long2]
聯繫	connection; contact; relation
聯繫人	contact person
聯繫方式	contact details
聯署	joint signatures (on a letter or declaration)
聯翩	(literary) to come in quick succession; wave after wave
聯考	entrance examination
聯聘	(of multiple institutions, departments or organizations) to jointly recruit; to jointly appoint (sb)
聯航	China United Airlines, abbr. for 中國聯合航空|中国联合航空[Zhong1 guo2 Lian2 he2 Hang2 kong1]
聯袂	jointly; as a group; together
聯誦	liaison (in phonetics) (loanword)
聯誼	friendship; fellowship
聯誼會	association; club; society
聯調聯試	debugging and commissioning; testing (of a whole system)
聯賽	(sports) league; league tournament
聯軍	allied armies
聯軸器	(mechanics) coupler; coupling
聯軸節	(mechanics) coupling
聯通	China United Telecommunications Corporation
聯通紅籌公司	Unicom Red Chip, Hong Kong subsidiary of China Unicom 中國聯通|中国联通[Zhong1 guo2 Lian2 tong1]
聯運	through transport
聯運票	transfer ticket
聯邦	federal; federation; commonwealth
聯邦制	federal; federal system
聯邦州	federal state; German Bundesland
聯邦德國	German Federation; Bundesrepublik Deutschland; Germany
聯邦快遞	FedEx
聯邦政府	federal government
聯邦緊急措施署	Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
聯邦調查局	Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
聯邦通信委員會	Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
聯隊	wing (of an air force)
聯集	union (symbol ∪) (set theory) (Tw)
聯體別墅	townhouse
聰	(literary) acute (of hearing); (bound form) clever; intelligent; sharp
聰慧	bright; intelligent
聰敏	bright; sharp; quick-witted
聰明	intelligent; clever; bright; acute (of sight and hearing)
聰明一世，糊塗一時	(idiom) even the wisest can have a momentary lapse in judgment; every man has a fool in his sleeve
聰明伶俐	(idiom) bright; clever; quick-witted
聰明反被聰明誤	(idiom) a clever person may become the victim of his own ingenuity; cleverness may overreach itself; too smart for one's own good
聰明才智	intelligence and ability
聰明絕頂	exceptionally intelligent; brilliant
聰明過頭	too clever by half; excessive ingenuity
聰穎	smart; intelligent
聱	difficult to pronounce
聲	sound; voice; tone
聲像	audiovisual; (ultrasonography etc) acoustic image
聲價	reputation
聲優	voice actor (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 声優 "seiyū")
聲勢	fame and power; prestige; influence
聲卡	sound card
聲名	reputation; declaration
聲名大噪	to rise to fame
聲名大震	to create a sensation
聲名狼藉	to have a bad reputation
聲名鵲起	(idiom) to rise to fame
聲吶	sonar (loanword)
聲嘶力竭	to shout oneself hoarse (idiom)
聲囊	vocal sac; vocal pouch (for vocal amplification in male frogs)
聲場	(physics) acoustic field; sound field; soundstage
聲威	prestige; renown; influence
聲學	acoustics
聲帶	vocal cords; vocal folds; (motion picture) soundtrack
聲張	to make public; to disclose
聲息	sound (often with negative, not a sound); whisper
聲情並茂	(of a singer etc) excellent in voice and expression (idiom)
聲押	to apply to a court for an arrest warrant
聲援	to support (a cause)
聲效	sound effect
聲旁	phonetic component of Chinese character
聲旁字	character serving as sound value of another character; phonetic
聲明	to state; to declare; statement
聲明書	statement
聲望	reputation; prestige; public esteem
聲東擊西	to threaten the east and strike to the west (idiom)
聲樂	vocal music
聲母	the initial consonant of a Chinese syllable
聲氣	voice; tone; information
聲波	sound wave
聲波定位	sonic location system (esp. underwater sonar); acoustic positioning
聲浪	clamor
聲淚俱下	to shed tears while recounting sth; speaking in a tearful voice
聲稱	to claim; to state; to proclaim
聲符	phonetic component of a Chinese character (e.g. the component 青[qing] in 清[qing1])
聲紋	voiceprint
聲納	sonar (loanword)
聲索國	claimant country (in a territorial dispute)
聲線	voice (as sth that may be described as husky 沙啞|沙哑[sha1 ya3] or deep 低沉[di1 chen2] etc)
聲聞	(Buddhism) disciple
聲色場所	red-light district
聲色犬馬	(lit.) music, women, dogs and horses (traditional aristocratic amusements, with dogs and horses referring to activities such as hunting and riding) (idiom)
聲言	to state; to declare; pronouncement; declaration
聲討	to denounce; to condemn
聲訓	explaining a character or word by using a homophone
聲說	to narrate
聲調	tone; note; a tone (on a Chinese syllable)
聲調語言	tonal language (e.g. Chinese or Vietnamese)
聲調輪廓	tone contour
聲請	to make a formal request; formal request; to make a claim (law)
聲譽	reputation; fame
聲道	sound track; audio channel
聲部	part (in multipart instrumental or choral music), such as the soprano part or bass part
聲門	glottis
聲音	sound; voice
聲韻學	phonetics
聲響	sound; noise
聲頻	audio frequency
聲類	Shenglei, the earliest Chinese rime dictionary with 11,520 single-character entries, released in 3rd century (was not preserved to this day)
聲鵐	(bird species of China) common reed bunting (Emberiza schoeniclus)
聳	to excite; to raise up; to shrug
聳人聽聞	to sensationalize (idiom); deliberate exaggeration to scare people
聳動	to shake (a part of one's body); to shrug (shoulders)
聳立	to stand tall; to tower aloft
聳肩	to shrug one's shoulders
聵	born deaf; deaf; obtuse
聶	surname Nie
聶姆曹娃	Božena Němcová (1820-1862), Czech writer
聶拉木縣	Nyalam, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
聶榮縣	Nyainrong, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
聶耳	Nie Er (1912-1935), musician and composer of the PRC national anthem March of the Volunteer Army 義勇軍進行曲|义勇军进行曲
聶衛平	Nie Weiping (1952–), Chinese professional Go player
職	office; duty
職位	position; post; job
職分	duty
職務	post; position; job
職員	office worker; staff member
職場	workplace; workforce (of a nation or industry etc); job market
職守	duty; responsibility; post
職工	employee; staff member; worker
職志	aspiration
職掌	to be in charge of; assignment
職教	vocational education (abbr. for 職業教育|职业教育[zhi2 ye4 jiao4 yu4])
職校	vocational school (abbr. for 職業學校|职业学校[zhi2 ye4 xue2 xiao4])
職業	occupation; profession; vocation; professional
職業中學	vocational high school
職業倦怠症	professional boredom syndrome
職業化	professionalization
職業教育	vocational training
職業病	occupational disease
職業素質	professionalism
職業運動員	professional (athlete); pro
職業高中	vocational high school (abbr. to 職高|职高[zhi2 gao1])
職業高爾夫球協會	Professional Golfer's Association (PGA)
職權	authority; power over others
職涯	career
職稱	one's professional position; title; job title
職級	(job) position; level; grade
職缺	(job) opening
職能	function; role
職能治療	occupational therapy
職能治療師	occupational therapist
職責	duty; responsibility; obligation
職軍	(Tw) professional soldier
職銜	title (position within an organization)
職高	vocational high school (abbr. for 職業高中|职业高中[zhi2 ye4 gao1 zhong1])
聹	used in 耵聹|耵聍[ding1 ning2]
聽	to listen to; to hear; to heed; to obey
聽上去	to sound (difficult, worthwhile etc); to seem
聽不到	can't hear
聽不懂	unable to make sense of what one is hearing
聽不見	not be able to hear
聽不進去	not to listen; to be deaf to
聽之任之	(idiom) to take a laissez-faire attitude; to turn a blind eye (towards sth undesirable)
聽事	to hold audience; to advise on state affairs
聽任	to let (sth happen); to allow (sb to do sth); to submit to
聽來	to sound (old, foreign, exciting, right etc); to ring (true)
聽信	to listen to information; to get the news; to believe what one hears
聽候	to wait for (orders, a decision, a judgment)
聽其自便	to allow sb to do sth at his convenience
聽其自然	to let things take their course; to take things as they come
聽其言而觀其行	hear what he says and observe what he does (idiom, from Analects); judge a person not by his words, but by his actions
聽其言觀其行	hear what he says and observe what he does (idiom, from Analects); judge a person not by his words, but by his actions
聽到	to hear
聽力	hearing; listening ability
聽力理解	listening comprehension
聽勸	to heed advice; to listen to counsel
聽友	listener (of a radio program etc)
聽取	to hear (news); to listen to
聽君一席話，勝讀十年書	listening to the words of a wise man can be superior to studying ten years of books (proverb)
聽命	to obey an order; to take orders; to accept a state of affairs
聽天安命	to accept one's situation as dictated by heaven (idiom)
聽天由命	(idiom) to submit to the will of heaven; to resign oneself to fate; to trust to luck
聽審	to attend court; to take part in a trial
聽審會	hearing (law)
聽寫	(of a pupil) to write down (in a dictation exercise); dictation
聽小骨	ossicles (of the middle ear)
聽岔	to mishear; to hear wrongly
聽得懂	to understand (by hearing); to catch (what sb says)
聽得見	to be able to hear; can hear
聽從	to listen and obey; to comply with; to heed
聽憑	to allow (sb to do as he pleases)
聽懂	to understand (on hearing); to catch (what is spoken)
聽戲	to attend an opera; to see an opera
聽房	to eavesdrop outside bridal bedchamber (folk custom)
聽斷	to judge (i.e. to hear and pass judgment in a law court)
聽書	to listen to a performance of pinghua storytelling 評話|评话[ping2 hua4]
聽會	to attend a meeting (and hear what is discussed)
聽清	to hear clearly
聽牆根	to eavesdrop; to listen in secret to sb's conversations
聽牌	(mahjong) to be one tile away from completing a hand
聽眾	audience; listeners
聽窗	to eavesdrop outside bridal bedchamber (folk custom)
聽筒	telephone receiver; headphone; earphone; earpiece; stethoscope
聽者	listener; member of audience
聽而不聞	to hear but not react (idiom); to turn a deaf ear
聽聞	to listen; to hear what sb says; news one has heard
聽膩了	fed up of hearing
聽見	to hear
聽見風就是雨	lit. on hearing wind, to say rain
聽覺	sense of hearing; auditory
聽訟	to hear litigation (in a law court); to hear a case
聽診器	stethoscope
聽話	to do what one is told; obedient
聽話聽聲，鑼鼓聽音	to understand the unspoken implications (idiom)
聽說	to hear (sth said); one hears (that); hearsay
聽說讀寫	listening, speaking, reading and writing (language skills)
聽課	to attend a class; to go to a lecture
聽講	to attend a lecture; to listen to a talk
聽證會	(legislative) hearing
聽起來	to sound like
聽錯	to mishear
聽閾	audibility threshold
聽障	hearing impairment
聽隨	to obey; to allow
聽頭	a can (loanword from English "tin")
聽風就是雨	lit. to believe in the rain on hearing the wind (idiom)
聽骨	ossicles (in the middle ear); also written 聽小骨|听小骨
聽骨鏈	chain of ossicles (in the middle ear)
聾	deaf
聾人	deaf person; hearing-impaired person
聾啞	deaf and nonverbal
聾啞人	a deaf and mute person
聾子	deaf person
聾聵	deaf; fig. stupid and ignorant
聾胞	hearing impaired person (Tw)
聿	(arch. introductory particle); then; and then
肄	to learn; to practice or study (old)
肄業	to attend (a school); to drop out (of college etc)
肄業生	dropout student
肄業證書	certificate of partial completion
肅	respectful; solemn; to eliminate
肅北蒙古族自治縣	Subei Mongol Autonomous County, in Jiuquan City 酒泉市[Jiu3 quan2 Shi4], Gansu
肅南裕固族自治縣	Sunan Yugur Autonomous County, in Zhangye City 張掖市|张掖市[Zhang1 ye4 Shi4], Gansu
肅反	to eliminate counterrevolutionaries (abbr. for 肅清反革命分子|肃清反革命分子[su4 qing1 fan3 ge2 ming4 fen4 zi3])
肅反運動	purge of counterrevolutionaries (esp. Mao's purge of hidden counterrevolutionaries 1955-56 and Stalin's Great Purge 1936-38)
肅寧縣	Suning, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
肅州區	Suzhou, a district of Jiuquan City 酒泉市[Jiu3 quan2 Shi4], Gansu
肅慎	ancient ethnic group of northeast frontier of China
肅敬	respectful; deferential
肅殺	austere; stern; harsh
肅清	to purge
肅然	respectful; solemn; awed
肅然起敬	to feel deep veneration for sb (idiom)
肅穆	solemn and respectful; serene
肅立	to stand respectfully
肅靜	solemnly silent
肆	four (banker's anti-fraud numeral); unrestrained; wanton
肆意	wantonly; recklessly; willfully
肆無忌憚	absolutely unrestrained; unbridled; without the slightest scruple
肆虐	to wreak havoc; to devastate
肆行	to act recklessly
肇	at first; devise; originate
肇事	to cause an accident; to be responsible for an incident
肇事者	offender; culprit
肇事逃逸	hit-and-run
肇俊哲	Zhao Junzhe (1979-), Chinese football player
肇因	cause; origin
肇始	to initiate; to start; the start
肇州縣	Zhaozhou, a county in Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
肇建	(literary) to establish; to found (a country etc); to initiate construction (of sth large-scale, e.g. a palace, university etc)
肇慶大學	Zhaoqing University (Guangdong)
肇慶市	Zhaoqing, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
肇東市	Zhaodong, a county-level city in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
肇源縣	Zhaoyuan, a county in Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
肇禍	to cause an accident
肇端	the starting point
肉	meat; flesh; pulp (of a fruit)
肉丁	diced meat
肉中刺	a thorn in one's flesh
肉丸	meatball
肉乎乎	plump; fleshy
肉乾	dried meat; jerky
肉償	(fig.) to use sex to pay off (a debt)
肉冠	comb (fleshy crest on a bird's head)
肉凍	aspic; meat jelly
肉刑	corporal punishment (such as castration or amputation)
肉包子打狗	lit. to fling a meat bun at a dog (idiom)
肉商	meat merchant; butcher
肉嘟嘟	chubby
肉圓	ba-wan, dumpling made of glutinous dough, typically stuffed with minced pork, bamboo shoots etc, and served with a savory sauce (Taiwanese snack) (from Taiwanese 肉圓, Tai-lo pr. [bah-uân])
肉垂麥雞	(bird species of China) red-wattled lapwing (Vanellus indicus)
肉墊	pad (on animal paw)
肉夾饃	lit. meat wedged in steamed bun; "Chinese burger"
肉彈	suicide attacker; suicide bomber; voluptuous woman; muscular man
肉感	sexiness; sexy; sensuality
肉慾	carnal desire
肉搏	to fight hand-to-hand
肉搏戰	hand-to-hand combat
肉搜	(Tw) abbr. for 人肉搜索|人肉搜索[ren2 rou4 sou1 suo3]
肉末	ground meat
肉果	fleshy fruit; sarcocarp; nutmeg
肉桂	Chinese cinnamon (Cinnamomum cassia)
肉條	cutlet
肉棒	meat stick; penis
肉毒中毒	botulism
肉毒桿菌	Clostridium botulinum (bacterium that produces botulinum toxin)
肉毒桿菌毒素	botulinum toxin
肉毒梭狀芽孢桿菌	Clostridium botulinum
肉毒素	botulinum toxin (abbr. for 肉毒桿菌毒素|肉毒杆菌毒素[rou4 du2 gan3 jun1 du2 su4])
肉汁	meat stock
肉沫	minced pork
肉湯	meat soup; broth
肉湯麵	noodles in meat soup
肉燥	(Tw) minced pork stewed with soy sauce and spices (served with rice or noodles, or as a filling in buns etc)
肉爛在鍋裡	lit. the meat falls apart as it stews, but it all stays in the pot (idiom)
肉片	meat slice
肉瘤	wart; sarcoma; superfluous
肉皮	pork skin
肉盾	human shield; (gaming) tank; meat shield
肉眼	naked eye; layman's eyes
肉眼凡胎	ignoramus (idiom)
肉眼觀察	observation by naked eye
肉票	hostage
肉糜	minced meat
肉絲	shredded meat; shredded pork
肉羹	stew; bouillon
肉脯	dried meat
肉芽腫	(pathology) granuloma
肉蒲團	The Carnal Prayer Mat, Chinese erotic novel from 17th century, usually attributed to Li Yu 李漁|李渔[Li3 Yu3]
肉袒	to make a humble apology (formal writing)
肉豆蔻	nutmeg (Myristica fragrans Houtt); mace
肉豆蔻科	Myristicaceae (family of plants including nutmeg)
肉販	butcher
肉質	quality of meat; succulent (botany)
肉質根	succulent root (botany)
肉足鸌	(bird species of China) flesh-footed shearwater (Puffinus carneipes)
肉身	corporeal body
肉醬	minced meat sauce; (fig.) mincemeat; a person cut to pieces
肉鋪	butcher's shop
肉雞	chicken raised for meat; broiler; (computing) zombie
肉類	meat
肉食	carnivorous
肉食動物	carnivore
肉餅	meat patty
肉餡	ground meat; mincemeat
肉骨茶	bak-kut-teh or pork ribs soup, popular in Malaysia and Singapore
肉體	physical body
肉鬆	meat floss; shredded dried pork
肉鹼	carnitine (biochemistry)
肉麻	sickening; corny; sappy
肋	(bound form) rib; Taiwan pr. [le4]
肋木	(gymnastics) wall bars; stall bars
肋眼	rib-eye steak
肋間肌	intercostal muscle
肋骨	rib
肌	(bound form) flesh; muscle
肌動蛋白	actin
肌原纖維	(anatomy) myofibril
肌少症	(medicine) sarcopenia
肌球蛋白	myosin (biochemistry)
肌理	texture (of skin, surface etc)
肌纖維	muscle fiber
肌纖蛋白	myocilin; muscle fibrin
肌肉	muscle; flesh
肌肉注射	intramuscular injection
肌肉男	muscular man; muscleman
肌肉發達	muscular
肌肉組織	muscle tissue
肌肉萎縮症	muscular dystrophy
肌肉記憶	muscle memory
肌肉鬆弛劑	muscle relaxant (medicine)
肌胃	gizzard
肌腱	tendon (anatomy); sinew; hamstrings
肌膚	skin; flesh; fig. close physical relationship
肌苷酸二鈉	disodium inosinate (E631)
肌酸	creatine
肌電圖	electromyogram (EMG)
肌體	the body; organism (usually human); (fig.) fabric (of society etc)
肏	to fuck (vulgar)
肏你媽	fuck your mother (vulgar)
肏屄	to fuck (a woman) (vulgar)
肏蛋	lousy; rotten
肓	region between heart and diaphragm
肖	surname Xiao; Taiwan pr. [Xiao4]
肖伯納	Bernard Shaw (1856-1950), Irish-born British playwright
肖似	to resemble; to look like
肖像	portrait (painting, photo etc)
肖像權	portrait rights; right to one's image
肖恩	Sean, Shaun or Shawn (name)
肖想	(Tw) to dream of having (sth one cannot possibly have); to covet (sth beyond one's grasp) (from Taiwanese 數想, Tai-lo pr. [siàu-siūnn])
肖揚	Xiao Yang (1938-), president of the PRC Supreme Court 1998-2008
肖邦	Frédéric Chopin (1810-1849), Polish pianist and composer
肘	elbow; pork shoulder
肘子	pork shoulder; (coll.) elbow
肘擊	to strike with the elbow; to elbow
肘腋	lit. armpit; elbow and armpit; fig. right up close (to a disaster)
肙	a small worm; to twist; to surround
肚	tripe
肚兜	undergarment covering the chest and abdomen
肚子	belly; abdomen; stomach
肚子痛	stomachache; bellyache
肚孤	(Tw) to doze off (from Taiwanese 盹龜, Tai-lo pr. [tuh-ku])
肚痛	stomachache
肚皮	belly
肚皮舞	belly dance
肚腩	belly
肚腹	belly (old)
肚臍	navel
肚臍眼	navel; belly button
肛	(bound form) anus; rectum
肛交	anal intercourse
肛塞	butt plug
肛欲期	anal stage (psychology)
肛毛	hair around the anus
肛裂	anal fissure
肛門	anus
肛門直腸	rectum (anatomy)
肜	surname Rong
肝	liver (CL:葉|叶[ye4])
肝吸蟲	liver fluke
肝火	irascibility; irritability; (TCM) inflammation of the liver
肝炎	hepatitis
肝病	liver disease
肝癌	liver cancer
肝硬化	cirrhosis
肝糖	glycogen
肝腦塗地	to offer one's life in sacrifice
肝腸寸斷	lit. liver and guts cut to pieces (idiom); fig. grief-stricken
肝膽相照	to treat one another with absolute sincerity (idiom); to show total devotion
肝臟	liver
肝醣	(Tw) glycogen
肟	oxime; oximide; -oxil (chemistry)
股	thigh; part of a whole; portion of a sum; (finance) stock; share
股二頭肌	biceps femoris (anatomy)
股交	intercrural sex
股份	a share (in a company); stock
股份公司	joint-stock company
股份制公司	joint-stock company
股份有限公司	joint-stock limited company; corporation
股價	stock price; share price
股利	dividend
股動脈	femoral artery
股四頭肌	quadriceps muscle group; thigh muscles
股市	stock market
股息	dividend
股慄	(literary) to tremble with fear
股指	stock market index; share price index
股掌	(have sb in) the palm of one's hand
股本	capital stock; investment
股本回報率	return on equity (ROE)
股東	shareholder; stockholder
股東大會	general shareholders' meeting
股東特別大會	special shareholders' meeting
股權	equity shares; stock right
股民	stock investor; share trader
股溝	buttock cleavage; butt crack
股災	stock market crash
股癬	tinea cruris, fungal skin infection of the groin
股神	legendary stock investor
股票	share certificate; stock (finance)
股票交易所	stock exchange
股票代號	ticker symbol (to identify share coupon)
股票市場	stock market; stock exchange
股票投資	to invest in stock; to buy shares
股票指數	stock market index; share price index
股肱	trusted aide
股長	person in charge of a 股[gu3] (section or department); head; chief
股骨	femur
肢	limb
肢解	to dismember; (fig.) to break into parts
肢體	limb; limbs and trunk; body
肢體衝突	physical encounter; fight
肢體語言	body language
肥	fat; fertile; loose-fitting or large
肥力	fertility (of soil)
肥厚	plump; fleshy; fertile
肥城市	Feicheng, a county-level city in Tai'an City 泰安市[Tai4 an1 Shi4], Shandong
肥墩墩	exceedingly obese
肥壯	stout and strong
肥大	(of clothes) baggy; loose; (of a person) fat; stout
肥實	plump (of fruit); fat (of meat); fertile (of land)
肥差	lucrative job; cushy job
肥效	effectiveness of fertilizer
肥料	fertilizer; manure
肥東縣	Feidong, a county in Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
肥水不流外人田	lit. don't let one's own fertile water flow into others' field
肥沃	fertile
肥滋滋	fat; plump
肥牛	fatty beef slices (esp. for hot pot)
肥甘	fine foods
肥田	fertile land; to fertilize the soil
肥田粉	ammonium sulfate fertilizer
肥皂	soap
肥皂劇	soap opera (loanword)
肥皂水	soapy water
肥皂沫	soapy lather; foam
肥皂泡	soap bubble
肥碩	fleshy (fruit); plump; large and firm-fleshed (limbs, body)
肥缺	lucrative post
肥羊	(fig.) attractive and easy mark; source of steady profit; moneymaker
肥美	fertile; luxuriant; plump
肥肉	fat (e.g. pork fat); fatty meat; (fig.) a gold mine
肥肝	foie gras
肥胖	fat; obese
肥胖症	obesity
肥腸	pig-gut (large intestine used as foodstuff)
肥膘	body fat, esp. the layer of fat under the skin (used in reference to humans, animals or meat)
肥膩	(of foods) fatty; greasy
肥西縣	Feixi, a county in Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
肥鄉區	Feixiang, a district of Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
肥頭大耳	fat; plump; chubby
肥馬輕裘	lit. stout horses and light furs; fig. to live in luxury
肩	shoulder; to shoulder (responsibilities etc)
肩並肩	shoulder to shoulder; abreast; side by side
肩周炎	adhesive capsulitis (frozen shoulder)
肩射導彈	shoulder-fired missile
肩峰	(anatomy) acromion
肩帶	shoulder strap; shoulder harness; shoulder belt; baldric
肩扛	to carry on the shoulder
肩章	epaulet; shoulder loop; shoulder mark
肩胛	shoulder; scapular region; scapula
肩胛骨	scapula; shoulder blade
肩膀	shoulder
肩膊	shoulder
肩袖	rotator cuff
肩負	to shoulder (a burden); to bear; to suffer (a disadvantage)
肩起	to bear; to shoulder (responsibilities etc)
肩部	shoulder; shoulder area
肩頭	on one's shoulders; (dialect) shoulder
肪	animal fat
肫	gizzard
肭	used in 膃肭|腽肭[wa4 na4]
肯	to agree; to consent; to be willing to
肯亞	(Tw) Kenya
肯塔基	Kentucky, US state
肯定	to be certain; to be positive; assuredly; definitely
肯定句	affirmative sentence
肯尼亞	Kenya
肯尼迪	Kennedy (name)
肯尼迪航天中心	Kennedy space center, Cape Canaveral 卡納維拉爾角|卡纳维拉尔角[Ka3 na4 wei2 la1 er3 jiao3], Florida
肯尼迪角	Cape Kennedy, name 1963-1973 of Cape Canaveral 卡納維拉爾角|卡纳维拉尔角[Ka3 na4 wei2 la1 er3 jiao3], Florida
肯德基	KFC (Kentucky Fried Chicken)
肯德拉	Kendra (name)
肯普索恩	(Dirk) Kempthorne (US Senator from Idaho)
肯特	Kent (English county)
肰	dog meat
肱	upper arm; arm
肱三頭肌	triceps brachii (back of the upper arm)
肱二頭肌	bicipital muscle; biceps
肱骨	humerus
育	to have children; to raise or bring up; to educate
育人	to educate people (esp. morally)
育兒	to raise a child
育兒嫂	nanny (for infants and toddlers)
育兒袋	marsupial pouch
育嬰	to look after a baby
育嬰假	(Tw) parental leave
育嬰師	nanny (for infants and toddlers)
育幼袋	pouch of a female marsupial
育幼院	orphanage
育有	to be the parent of (a child)
育樂	(Tw) (abbr. for 教育與娛樂|教育与娱乐[jiao4 yu4 yu3 yu2 le4]) education and entertainment, the 5th and 6th aspects of life beyond the four basic necessities of food, clothing, shelter and transportation 食衣住行[shi2 yi1 zhu4 xing2]
育水	name of river; old name of Baihe 白河 in Henan
育種	to breed; breeding
育空	Yukon (Canadian territory adjacent to Alaska)
育肥	to fatten up (livestock)
育苗	to raise seedlings or saplings
育齡	childbearing age
育齡期	childbearing age
肴	meat dishes; mixed viands
肵	table
肸	used in 肸肸[xi1 xi1]; used in 肸蠁|肸蚃[xi1 xiang3]; Taiwan pr. [xi4]
肸肸	(literary) (onom.) sound of laughter
肸蠁	(literary) (of a sound, fragrance etc) to fill the air
肺	lung
肺刺激性毒劑	lung irritant
肺動脈	pulmonary artery
肺心病	pulmonary heart disease (medicine)
肺栓塞	pulmonary embolism (medicine)
肺氣腫	emphysema
肺水腫	pulmonary edema
肺泡	pulmonary alveolus
肺活量	(medicine) vital capacity
肺炎	pneumonia; inflammation of the lungs
肺炎克雷伯氏菌	Klebsiella pnenmoniae
肺炎雙球菌	Diplococcus pneumoniae
肺炎黴漿菌	Mycoplasma pneumoniae
肺病	lung disease
肺癆	tuberculosis
肺癌	lung cancer
肺結核	tuberculosis; TB
肺結核病	tuberculosis, TB
肺結節	(medicine) pulmonary nodule
肺腑	bottom of the heart (fig.)
肺腑之言	words from the bottom of one's heart
肺臟	lungs
肺通氣	pulmonary ventilation (medicine)
肼	hydrazine
肽	peptide (two or more amino acids linked by peptide bonds CO-NH)
肽單位	peptide unit (on protein chain)
肽基	peptide group; peptide unit
肽聚糖	peptidoglycan (PG) or murein (polymer of sugars and amino acids forming cell wall)
肽鍵	peptide bond CO-NH
肽鏈	peptide chain (chain of amino acids making up protein)
胂	arsine
胂凡納明	arsphenamine
胃	stomach
胃下垂	gastroptosis
胃口	appetite; liking
胃囊	stomach (of a human); (zoology) gastric pouch
胃寒	stomach cold (TCM)
胃小凹	(physiology) gastric pits
胃液	gastric fluid
胃灼熱	heartburn; pyrosis
胃炎	gastritis
胃疼	stomachache
胃病	stomach trouble; stomach illness
胃痛	to have a stomachache
胃癌	stomach cancer
胃繞道	gastric bypass
胃腸道	gastrointestinal tract
胃蛋白酶	pepsin
胃袋	(coll.) stomach; belly
胃酸	gastric acid
胃鏡	gastroscope (medicine)
胄	helmet; descendants
胄子	eldest son
胄甲	helmet and armor
胄裔	descendants
胊	yoke
背	the back of a body or object; to turn one's back
背井離鄉	to leave one's native place, esp. against one's will (idiom)
背信	to break faith
背信棄義	breaking faith and abandoning right (idiom); to betray; treachery
背倚	to have one's back against; to lean against
背側	back; back side
背光	to have direct light blocked; to face away from the light source
背光屏	(electronics) backlit screen
背刺	to backstab
背包	knapsack; rucksack; infantry pack
背包客	backpacker
背包袱	to have a weight on one's mind; to take on a mental burden
背包遊	backpacking
背叛	to betray
背叛者	traitor
背囊	backpack; knapsack; rucksack
背地	secretly; in private; behind someone's back
背地裡	behind sb's back; secretly
背城借一	to make a last-ditch stand before the city wall (idiom); to fight to the last ditch
背夾電池	battery case (for a smartphone)
背字	bad luck
背對	to have one's back towards
背對背	back to back
背山	with back to the mountain (favored location)
背山臨水	with back to the mountain and facing the water (favored location)
背帶	braces; suspenders; sling (for a rifle)
背帶褲	overalls; dungarees
背影	rear view; figure seen from behind
背影殺手	(slang) (usu. of a woman) sb who looks stunning from behind
背後	behind; at the back; in the rear
背德	immoral; unethical
背心	sleeveless garment (vest, waistcoat, singlet, tank top etc)
背斜	anticline (geology)
背時	outdated; out of luck
背景	background; backdrop; context; (fig.) powerful backer
背景虛化	background blurring (photography)
背景調查	background check
背景音樂	background music (BGM); soundtrack; musical setting
背書	to recite (a text) from memory; to learn a text by heart
背板	panel; back panel
背棄	to abandon; to desert; to renounce
背榜	to score last in an examination
背殺	(slang) (usu. of a woman) sb who looks stunning from behind
背氣	to stop breathing (as a medical condition)
背水一戰	lit. fight with one's back to the river (idiom); fig. to fight to win or die
背泳	(HK) backstroke
背稱	term used to refer to a person who is not present (e.g. 小姨子[xiao3 yi2 zi5]) (contrasted with 面稱|面称[mian4 cheng1])
背簍	a basket carried on the back
背約	to break an agreement; to go back on one's word
背脊	the back of the human body
背著	turning one's back to (sth or sb); keeping sth secret from (sb)
背著手	with one's hands clasped behind one's back
背著抱著一般重	lit. whether one carries it on one's back or in one's arms, it's equally heavy (idiom)
背誦	to recite; to repeat from memory
背調	background check (abbr. for 背景調查|背景调查[bei4 jing3 diao4 cha2])
背負	to bear; to carry on one's back; to shoulder
背轉	to turn away; to turn one's back to; (gymnastics etc) backspin
背逆	to violate; to go against
背運	bad luck; unlucky
背道而馳	to run in the opposite direction (idiom); to run counter to
背部	back (of a human or other vertebrate, or of an object)
背鍋	(slang) (neologism derived from 背黑鍋|背黑锅[bei1 hei1 guo1]) to carry the can; to be a scapegoat
背闊肌	latissimus dorsi muscle (back of the chest)
背陰	in the shade; shady
背離	to depart from; to deviate from; deviation
背靠	to lean one's back against; (fig.) to be backed by
背靠背	back to back
背面	the back; the reverse side; the wrong side
背頭	swept-back hairstyle
背骨	spine
背鰭	dorsal fin
背黑鍋	to be made a scapegoat; to be unjustly blamed
胍	guanidine
胎	fetus; classifier for litters (of puppies etc)
胎便	meconium
胎兒	unborn child; fetus; embryo
胎動	fetal movement
胎壓	tire pressure
胎座	(botany) placenta
胎教	prenatal education; antenatal training; prenatal influences
胎死腹中	fetus dies in the belly
胎生	viviparous
胎盤	placenta
胎糞	meconium
胎記	birthmark
胎面	surface of tire; tread (of tire)
胎體	(in ceramics, lacquerware etc) the base (made of clay, metal, bamboo etc) onto which a glaze, lacquer or other decorative elements are applied
胎齡	gestational age
胏	dried meat with bone
胑	wings of birds; legs of animals
胔	rotten meat; bones of dead animal
胖	healthy; at ease
胖乎乎	chubby
胖人	overweight person; fatty
胖嘟嘟	plump; pudgy; chubby
胖墩兒	(coll.) short, fat person (esp. a kid); a roly-poly
胖墩墩	short and stout; heavy-set
胖大海	malva nut; seed of Sterculia lychnophora
胖子	fat person; fatty
胖揍	(coll.) to give sb a good beating
胖次	(Internet slang) panties (loanword)
胗	gizzard
胙	to grant or bestow; sacrificial flesh offered to the gods (old)
胚	embryo
胚乳	(botany) endosperm
胚囊	(botany) embryo sac
胚囊泡	(biology) blastodermic vesicle
胚層	germ layer; layer of tissue in embryology
胚泡	(biology) blastocyst
胚珠	ovule
胚胎	embryo
胚胎學	embryology
胚胎發生	embryogenesis
胚芽	bud; sprout; germ
胚芽米	semipolished rice (i.e. rice minus the husk, but including the germ)
胚芽鞘	coleoptile, protective sheath covering an emerging shoot (botany)
胛	shoulder blade
胝	used in 胼胝[pian2 zhi1]
胞	placenta; womb; born of the same parents
胞兄	elder brother born to the same parents
胞嘧啶	cytosine nucleotide (C, pairs with guanine G 鳥嘌呤|鸟嘌呤 in DNA and RNA)
胞妹	younger sister born to the same parents
胞姐	elder sister born to the same parents
胞宮	uterus; womb
胞弟	younger brother born to the same parents
胞波	brethren on the other side of the border (used in the context of China-Myanmar friendship) (loanword from Burmese "paukphaw", meaning "close kin")
胞漿	cytoplasm
胞藻	algae
胞衣	afterbirth
胠	flank of animal; side; to pry open
胠篋	to steal; to pilfer
胡	non-Han people, esp. from central Asia; reckless; outrageous
胡亂	careless; reckless; casually
胡人	ethnic groups in the north and west of China in ancient times
胡佛	Hoover (name)
胡作非為	to run amok (idiom); to commit outrages
胡佳	Hu Jia (1973-), PRC dissident human rights activist
胡來	to act arbitrarily regardless of the rules; to mess with sth
胡兀鷲	(bird species of China) bearded vulture (Gypaetus barbatus)
胡克	Hook or Hooke (name)
胡叼盤	derogatory nickname given to Hu Xijin 胡錫進|胡锡进[Hu2 Xi1 jin4] for doing the CCP's bidding as editor of the "Global Times"
胡吃海喝	to eat and drink gluttonously; to pig out
胡吃海塞	to stuff oneself with food
胡同	lane; alley
胡同兒	erhua form of 胡同[hu2 tong4]
胡吹	to boast wildly
胡唚	to talk provokingly or nonsensically
胡圖族	Hutu, an ethnic group in Rwanda and Burundi
胡塞爾	Edmund Husserl (1859–1938), German philosopher
胡天	Zoroastrianism
胡天胡帝	with all the majesty of an emperor (idiom); reckless; intemperate
胡夫	Khufu (pharaoh, reigned possibly 2590-2568 BC)
胡姬花	Vanda miss joaquim (hybrid orchid), national flower of Singapore
胡安	Juan (Spanish given name)
胡弄	to fool; to deceive; to go through the motions
胡志強	Jason Hu (1948-), former Taiwan foreign minister
胡志明	Ho Chi Minh (1890-1969), former Vietnamese leader
胡志明市	Ho Chi Minh City a.k.a. Saigon, Vietnam
胡思亂想	(idiom) to indulge in flights of fancy; to let one's imagination run wild
胡想	to indulge in flights of fancy; to let one's imagination run wild
胡慧中	Sibelle Hu (1958-), Taiwanese actress
胡扯	to chatter; nonsense; blather
胡扯八溜	to talk nonsense
胡扯淡	nonsense; irresponsible patter
胡掄	to act rashly
胡搞	to mess around; to mess with something; to have an affair
胡攪	to disturb; to pester
胡攪蠻纏	(idiom) to pester endlessly
胡桃	walnut
胡桃夾子	The Nutcracker (ballet)
胡椒	pepper
胡椒噴霧	pepper spray; OC spray
胡椒子	peppercorn; seeds of pepper
胡椒屬	pepper genus (Piper spp.)
胡椒粉	ground pepper (i.e. powder)
胡椒粒	peppercorn; seeds of pepper
胡椒薄荷	peppermint
胡樂	Hu music; central Asian music (e.g. as appreciated by Tang literati)
胡溫新政	Hu-Wen New Administration (formed in 2003), ostensibly reform-oriented leadership of Hu Jintao 胡錦濤|胡锦涛[Hu2 Jin3 tao1] and Wen Jiabao 溫家寶|温家宝[Wen1 Jia1 bao3]
胡燕妮	Jenny Hu (1945-), Hong Kong actress
胡狼	jackal
胡琴	huqin
胡瓜	cucumber
胡瓜魚	smelt (family Osmeridae)
胡笙	pipe wind instrument introduced from the non-Han peoples in the North and West
胡紫薇	Hu Ziwei (1970-), PRC lady TV presenter
胡編	to make things up; to concoct (a story, an excuse etc)
胡編亂造	to concoct a cock-and-bull story (idiom); to make things up
胡纏	to pester; to involve sb unreasonably
胡耀邦	Hu Yaobang (1915-1989), Chinese politician
胡花	to spend recklessly; to squander money
胡荽	coriander; cilantro
胡蘆巴	fenugreek
胡蘿蔔	carrot
胡蘿蔔素	carotene
胡蜂	wasp; hornet
胡言亂語	babbling nonsense (idiom); crazy and unfounded ravings; double Dutch
胡話	nonsense; ridiculous talk; hogwash
胡說	to talk nonsense; drivel
胡說八道	to talk rubbish
胡謅	to invent crazy nonsense; to cook up (excuses); to talk at random
胡謅八扯	(idiom) to talk random nonsense; to say whatever comes into one's head
胡豆	broad bean (Vicia faba); fava bean
胡越	the peoples north, west and south of China
胡辣湯	thick, peppery soup originating in Henan, commonly eaten for breakfast
胡適	Hu Shi (1891-1962), original proponent of writing in colloquial Chinese 白話文|白话文[bai2 hua4 wen2]
胡鄂公	Hu Egong (1884-1951), Chinese revolutionary and politician
胡銓	Hu Quan (1102-1180), Song Dynasty official and poet
胡錦濤	Hu Jintao (1942-), General Secretary of the CCP 2002-2012, president of the PRC 2003-2013
胡錫進	Hu Xijin (1960-), editor-in-chief of the "Global Times" 環球時報|环球时报[Huan2 qiu2 Shi2 bao4] 2005-2021
胡雁	Tatar goose, wild goose found in territories northwest of China in ancient times
胡鬧	to act willfully and make a scene; to make trouble
胡麻	sesame; (botany) flax; linseed
胡麻籽	sesame seed
胤	descendant; heir; offspring
胥	all; assist; to store
胥吏	low-level government official (in former times)
胦	the navel
胩	carbylamine; isocyanide
胬	used in 胬肉[nu3 rou4]
胬肉	pterygium (medicine)
胭	rouge
胭脂	rouge
胭脂蟲	cochineal insect
胭脂魚	Chinese high-fin banded shark (Myxocyprinus asiaticus)
胯	crotch; groin; hip
胯下之辱	(lit.) the humiliation of having to crawl between the legs of one's adversary (as Han Xin 韓信|韩信[Han2 Xin4] supposedly did rather than engage in a sword fight) (idiom)
胯下物	(slang) male member; package
胯間	crotch; groin
胯骨	hip bone
胰	pancreas
胰子	pancreas (of a domestic animal); (dialect) soap
胰島	(anatomy) pancreatic islets; islets of Langerhans
胰島素	insulin
胰液	pancreatic fluid
胰腺	pancreas
胰腺炎	pancreatitis
胰臟	pancreas
胰臟炎	pancreatitis
胱	used in 膀胱[pang2 guang1]
胲	hydroxylamine (chemistry)
胳	used in 胳肢窩|胳肢窝[ga1 zhi5 wo1]
胳肢	(dialect) to tickle
胳肢窩	armpit; also pr. [ge1 zhi5 wo1]; also written 夾肢窩|夹肢窝[ga1 zhi5 wo1]
胳膊	arm
胳膊擰不過大腿	(idiom) the weak cannot overcome the strong
胳膊肘	elbow
胳膊肘朝外拐	lit. the elbow turns outward (idiom)
胳臂	arm; also pr. [ge1 bi4]
胳臂箍兒	armband
胳臂肘兒	elbow
胴	large intestine; torso
胴體	carcass; naked body
胸	chest; bosom; heart
胸中	one's mind
胸乳	(woman's) breast
胸前	(on the) chest; bosom
胸卡	badge; name tag; ID card (worn on the chest)
胸口	chest
胸噎	thoracic choke (animal harness)
胸圍	chest measurement; bust
胸大無腦	(having) big boobs but no brain; bimbo
胸大肌	pectoralis major muscle (across the top of the chest)
胸寬	width of chest
胸廓	thorax
胸廓切開術	thoracotomy (medicine)
胸悶	chest pain; chest distress
胸懷	one's bosom (the seat of emotions); breast; broad-minded and open
胸懷坦蕩	open and candid (idiom); not hiding anything; ingenuous; openhearted
胸推	massage using one's breasts
胸有丘壑	far-sighted; astute
胸有城府	subtle way of thinking (idiom); hard to fathom; deep and shrewd
胸有成略	the hero has plans already laid (idiom); to have plans ready in advance
胸有成竹	(idiom) to have a well-thought-out plan in mind
胸有成算	the hero has plans already laid (idiom); to have plans ready in advance
胸椎	thoracic vertebra
胸槽	cleavage (hollow between a woman's breasts)
胸毛	chest hair
胸無城府	open and candid (idiom); not hiding anything; ingenuous
胸無大志	to have no aspirations (idiom); unambitious
胸無宿物	open and candid (idiom); not hiding anything; ingenuous
胸牆	parapet; defensive wall; breastwork
胸牌	badge; name tag; ID card (worn on the chest)
胸甲	breastplate
胸章	lapel badge
胸罩	brassiere (underwear); bra
胸肉	breast meat (brisket, chicken breast etc)
胸肌	pectoral muscles
胸脅	chest and hypochondrium; upper part of the body
胸脯	chest
胸腔	thoracic cavity
胸腺	thymus
胸腺嘧啶	thymine nucleotide (T, pairs with adenine A 腺嘌呤 in DNA)
胸膛	chest
胸膜	(anatomy) pleura
胸膜炎	pleurisy
胸臆	inner feelings; what is deep in one's heart
胸花	corsage; boutonnière
胸襟	lapel of jacket; heart; aspiration
胸貼	adhesive breast covering (e.g. a nipple cover or adhesive bra)
胸透	chest fluoroscopy
胸部	chest; bosom
胸針	brooch
胸靶	chest silhouette (used as a target in shooting practice)
胸音	chest voice
胸骨	sternum; breastbone
胸鰭	pectoral fin
胹	overcooked; soft
胺	(chemistry) amine; colloquial pr. [an1]; Taiwan pr. [an1]
胺基酸	(Tw) amino acid
胻	calf (lower leg); (arch.) belly
胼	used in 胼胝[pian2 zhi1]
胼手胝足	lit. with calluses on hands and feet (idiom)
胼胝	callus
胼胝體	(anatomy) corpus callosum
能	can; to be able to; might possibly
能上能下	ready to take any job, high or low
能事	particular abilities; one's forte
能人	capable person
能力	capability; ability
能動性	initiative; active role
能否	whether one can; whether it is possible
能夠	to be capable of; to be able to; can
能寫會算	(idiom) to be literate and numerate
能屈能伸	can bow and submit, or can stand tall (idiom, from Book of Changes); ready to give and take
能幹	capable; competent
能手	expert
能效	energy efficiency
能歌善舞	can sing and dance (idiom); fig. a person of many talents
能源	energy sources; energy
能源危機	energy crisis
能級	energy level
能者多勞	(idiom) it's the most capable people who do the most work (intended as consolation for the overworked, or flattery when making a request etc)
能耐	ability; capability
能耗	energy consumption
能見度	visibility
能言善辯	glib of tongue (idiom); eloquent
能詩善文	highly literate; lit. capable at poetry, proficient at prose
能說會道	can talk really well (idiom); the gift of the gab
能量	energy; capabilities
能量代謝	energy metabolism
能量守恆	conservation of energy (physics)
能量飲料	energy drink
能願動詞	modal verb (e.g. 肯[ken3], 能[neng2], 會|会[hui4], 要[yao4], 該|该[gai1], 得[dei3], 願意|愿意[yuan4 yi4], 可以[ke3 yi3], 可能[ke3 neng2], 敢[gan3], 應該|应该[ying1 gai1])
胾	cut meat into pieces; diced meat
脂	fat; rouge (cosmetics); resin
脂環烴	alicyclic hydrocarbon (i.e. involving ring other than benzene ring)
脂粉	cosmetics
脂粉氣	feminine quality; effeminate
脂肪	fat (in the body, in a plant, or in food)
脂肪團	cellulite
脂肪肝	fatty liver
脂肪酸	fatty acid
脂膏	fat; grease; riches
脂蛋白	lipoprotein
脂質體	liposome (bilayer lipid vesicle)
脅	flank (the side of one's torso); to coerce; to threaten
脅從犯	accomplice under duress; coerced accomplice; induced accomplice
脅持	to hold under duress
脅迫	to coerce; to compel; to force
脆	brittle; fragile; crisp
脆弱	weak; frail
脆爽	(of food) crispy and tasty; (of a voice or sound) sharp and clear
脆片	chip
脆皮	crispy skin (of food)
脆穀樂	Cheerios (breakfast cereal)
脆脆	crispy
脆骨	gristle
脈	arteries and veins; vein (on a leaf, insect wing etc)
脈動	pulse; throbbing; pulsation
脈口	location on wrist over the radial artery where pulse is taken in TCM
脈壓	blood pressure
脈序	venation; pattern of veins on a leaf or insect wing
脈息	pulse
脈搏	pulse (both medical and figurative)
脈案	(TCM) diagnosis, usu. written on the prescription; medical record
脈石	(mining) gangue; veinstone
脈管	vascular (made up of vessels)
脈管組織	vascular tissue
脈絡	arteries and veins; network of blood vessels
脈絡膜	choroid (vascular layer of the eyeball between the retina and the sclera)
脈脈	affectionate; loving
脈衝	pulse (physics)
脈衝星	pulsar (astronomy)
脈診	(TCM) diagnosis based on the patient's pulse; to make such a diagnosis
脈象	condition or type of pulse (in Chinese medicine)
脈輪	chakra
脈門	inner side of the wrist, where the pulse is felt
脊	(bound form) spine; backbone; (bound form) ridge
脊柱	spinal column; columna vertebralis
脊柱側凸	scoliosis
脊柱側彎	scoliosis
脊柱裂	spina bifida
脊梁	(coll.) back (of a human or other vertebrate)
脊梁骨	backbone
脊椎	vertebra; backbone
脊椎側彎	scoliosis
脊椎動物	vertebrate
脊椎動物門	Vertebrata, the phylum of vertebrates
脊椎指壓治療師	chiropractor
脊椎指壓療法	chiropractic therapy
脊椎骨	vertebra
脊灰	polio (abbr. for 脊髓灰質炎|脊髓灰质炎[ji3 sui3 hui1 zhi4 yan2])
脊索	notochord (anatomy)
脊索動物	chordata
脊索動物門	Chordata, phylum containing vertebrates
脊線	ridge line
脊背	back (of a human or other vertebrate)
脊骨	backbone
脊骨神經醫學	chiropractic
脊髓	spinal cord; medulla spinalis
脊髓灰質炎	poliomyelitis
脊髓炎	myelitis; inflammation of spinal cord
脒	amidine (chemistry)
脖	neck
脖子	neck
脖梗兒	erhua form of 脖梗[bo2 geng3]
脖領	shirt collar
脖頸	back of the neck; nape
脖頸兒	erhua form of 脖頸|脖颈[bo2 geng3]
脘	internal cavity of stomach
脛	lower part of leg
脛骨	tibia; shinbone
脝	fat; bloated
脞	chopped meat; trifles
脡	brisket meat; straight
脢	meat on the back of an animal
脤	sacrificial meat (raw)
脥	pelvic cavity; lower abdomen
脧	(literary) young boy's penis
脩	dried meat presented by pupils to their teacher at their first meeting (in ancient times)
脫	to shed; to take off; to escape
脫下	to take off (clothing)
脫不了身	busy and unable to get away
脫亞入歐	to abandon the old (Asian) ways and learn from Europe
脫俗	free from vulgarity; refined; outstanding
脫光	to strip naked; to strip nude; (coll.) to find oneself a partner
脫出	to break away; to extricate; to escape
脫力	exhausted
脫北者	North Korean refugee
脫卸	to evade responsibility; to shirk
脫去	to throw off
脫口	to blurt out
脫口秀	(loanword) talk show; stand-up comedy
脫口而出	(idiom) to blurt out; to let slip (an indiscreet remark)
脫咖啡因	decaffeinated; decaf
脫售	to sell off; to divest
脫單	(neologism) to find oneself a partner
脫困	to get out of a difficult situation
脫垂	prolapse
脫孝	to get through the mourning period
脫崗	to take time off; to take leave (e.g. for study); to skive off work
脫序	disorder
脫手	(not of regular commerce) to sell or dispose of (goods etc)
脫掉	to remove; to take off; to strip off
脫換	to molt
脫支	de-Sinicization and rejection of Han culture
脫敏	to desensitize; to become desensitized
脫星	actress or actor known for having been photographed in the nude or for appearing in sexy scenes
脫期	to fail to come out on time; to miss a deadline
脫機	offline
脫檔	sold out; out of stock
脫歐	to withdraw from the European Union; abbr. for 脫離歐盟|脱离欧盟
脫殼	to break out of an eggshell; to molt; to remove the husk
脫毛	to lose hair or feathers; to molt; depilation
脫毛劑	depilatory medicine
脫氧	deoxidation
脫氧核糖	deoxyribose
脫氧核糖核酸	DNA
脫氧核苷酸	deoxyribonucleoside monophosphate; dNMP
脫氧麻黃鹼	methamphetamine
脫氫	dehydrogenation
脫氫酶	dehydrogenase (enzyme)
脫水	to dry out; to extract water; dehydration
脫水機	a device for extracting water (such as a centrifuge)
脫泥	to remove mud; desliming (in coal production)
脫淺	to refloat (a boat that has run aground)
脫溶	to precipitate (solid from a solution)
脫滑	to shirk; to try to get off work; to slide on the job
脫漏	omission; to leave out; missing
脫澀	to remove astringent taste
脫灑	elegant; free and easy
脫然	unconcerned; without worries
脫班	behind schedule; late
脫產	to transfer (from production to other duties)
脫略	unrestrained; throwing off strictures; unrespectful
脫皮	(of paint etc) to peel off; to flake off
脫皮掉肉	lit. to shed skin, drop flesh; to work as hard as possible
脫盲	to acquire literacy; to throw off blindness
脫稿	(of a manuscript) to be completed
脫穎而出	to reveal one's talent (idiom)
脫空	to fail; to come to nothing; to fall through (of plans, hopes)
脫窗	(Tw) cross-eyed (from Taiwanese 挩窗, Tai-lo pr. [thuah-thang])
脫節	to come apart
脫粒	to thresh
脫粒機	threshing machine
脫粟	grain kernel (after threshing and winnowing)
脫線	derailment; to jump the track (of train); to derail
脫罪	to be acquitted
脫羽	to shed feathers; to molt (of birds)
脫肛	rectal prolapse
脫胎	to be born
脫胎成仙	reborn as immortal
脫胎換骨	to shed one's mortal body and exchange one's bones (idiom); born again Daoist
脫胎漆器	bodiless lacquerware
脫脂	to remove fat; to skim (milk)
脫脂棉	absorbent cotton
脫脫	Toktoghan (1314-1355), Mongol politician during the Yuan dynasty, prime minister until 1345, compiled three dynastic histories of Song 宋史, Liao 遼史|辽史 and Jin 金史
脫腸	(rectal) hernia
脫膠	(of parts glued together) to come apart
脫臼	dislocation (of a joint)
脫色	to lose color; to turn pale; to bleach
脫色劑	bleaching agent; decolorant
脫落	to drop off; to fall off; (of hair, teeth etc) to fall out
脫衣服	undress
脫衣舞	striptease
脫褲子放屁	lit. to take off trousers to fart
脫誤	omission; missing word
脫貧	to lift oneself out of poverty
脫貧致富	to rise from poverty and become prosperous (idiom)
脫貨	out of stock; sold out
脫跨	(neologism) to detransition; to cease identifying as transgender
脫身	to get away; to escape (from obligations); to free oneself
脫軌	to leave the rails; to derail; to jump the track
脫逃	to run away; to escape
脫鉤	to cut ties; to disconnect; out of touch
脫銷	to sell out; to run out (of supplies); deficient
脫開	to withdraw
脫除	to get rid of
脫險	to get out of danger
脫離	to separate oneself from; to break away from; diastasis (medicine)
脫離苦海	to escape from the abyss of suffering; to shed off a wretched plight
脫靶	to miss the target (when shooting)
脫鞋	to take off one's shoes
脫韁	(of a horse etc) to break free from the reins
脫韁之馬	lit. a horse that has thrown off the reins (idiom); runaway horse
脫韁野馬	a wild horse that refuses to be bridled (a metaphor for sth that runs wild)
脫髮	to lose one's hair; hair loss; alopecia
脫黨	to leave a political party; to give up party membership
脬	bladder
脯	dried meat; preserved fruit
脯子	breast meat (of chicken etc)
脯氨酸	proline (Pro), an amino acid
脰	(literary) neck
脲	carbamide; urea (NH2)2CO; also written 尿素
脲醛	urea formaldehyde
脷	(cattle) tongue (Cantonese)
脹	to swell; to distend; to expand; swollen; bloated
脹大	swollen
脹起	bulge
脾	spleen
脾性	temperament; disposition
脾氣	character; temperament; disposition; bad temper
脾胃	spleen and stomach (digestive organs in TCM); preferences
脾臟	spleen
脾虛	depletion of the spleen (Chinese medicine)
腄	callus on the hand or foot; upper leg bone of horse or bird; buttocks
腆	make strong (as liquors); virtuous
腈	acrylic
腈綸	acrylic fiber
腊	dried meat; also pr. [xi2]
腋	(bound form) armpit; axilla; axil
腋下	underarm; armpit
腋毛	armpit hair
腋生	axillary (botany); budding in the angle between branch and stem
腋窩	armpit
腋臭	body odor; bromhidrosis; armpit odor
腋芽	axillary bud; bud growing from axil of plant
腌	used in 腌臢|腌臜[a1 za1]; Taiwan pr. [ang1]
腌臢	dirty; filthy; awkward
腌製	marinated; to make by pickling, salting or curing
腌貨	pickles
腍	be satiated; cooked; good-tasting
腎	kidney
腎上腺	adrenal glands
腎上腺皮質	adrenal cortex
腎上腺素	adrenaline
腎上腺髓質	adrenal medulla
腎小球	glomerulus (medicine)
腎炎	kidney inflammation; nephritis
腎盂	renal pelvis (medicine)
腎盂炎	pyelitis (medicine)
腎結石	kidney stone
腎臟	kidney
腎虛	(TCM) kidney deficiency
腎衰竭	kidney failure
腐	decay; rotten
腐乳	fermented tofu
腐刑	castration (a form of punishment during the Han period)
腐化	to rot; to decay; to become corrupt
腐國	UK (slang term reflecting a perception of UK as decadent for its attitudes toward homosexuality)
腐壞	to rot; to spoil; (fig.) to become corrupted
腐女	fujoshi (woman who likes manga about male homosexual love) (derived from Japanese 腐女子 "fujoshi")
腐屍	decomposed corpse
腐敗	corruption; to corrupt; to rot
腐敗罪	the crime of corruption
腐朽	rotten; decayed; decadent
腐殖土	humus (topsoil of decayed vegetation)
腐殖酸	humic acid
腐熟	(of compost) fully decomposed
腐爛	to rot; to putrefy; (fig.) corrupt
腐生蘭	Cymbidium macrorrhizum Lindl.
腐竹	rolls of dried soymilk cream (used in cooking after being rehydrated)
腐肉	rotting flesh; carrion
腐臭	rotten (smell); stinking; putrid
腐舊	outmoded; decadent; decaying
腐蝕	corrosion; to corrode (degrade chemically); to rot
腐蝕劑	a corrosive (chemical)
腐蝕性	(lit. and fig.) corrosive; corrosiveness
腑	internal organs
腒	dried poultry
腓	calf of leg; decay; protect
腓利門書	Epistle of St Paul to Philemon
腓力	Philip, one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus (Protestant transliteration)
腓尼基	Phoenicia, ancient civilization along the coast of the Mediterranean Sea
腓特烈斯塔	Fredrikstad (city in Østfold, Norway)
腓立比	Philippi, ancient Macedonian city
腓立比書	Epistle of St Paul to the Philippians
腓腸	calf (of the leg)
腓腸肌	calf muscle; gastrocnemius muscle
腓骨	fibula; calf bone
腔	(bound form) cavity; (bound form) speech; talk; tune
腔壁	cavity wall
腔子	thoracic cavity; intonation; accent
腔棘魚	coelacanth
腔腸動物	Coelenterata (such as jellyfish)
腔調	a tune; a melody; accent (distinctive way of pronouncing a language)
腔隙	lacuna; gap
腕	wrist; (squid, starfish etc) arm
腕子	wrist
腕帶	wristband; wrist strap (for securing an object to one's wrist)
腕管綜合症	carpal tunnel syndrome
腕級	celebrated; famous; A-list
腕足	(zoology) tentacle
腕足動物	brachiopod
腕錶	wristwatch
腕隧道症候群	carpal tunnel syndrome (pain in the hands due to pressure on the median nerve)
腕龍	brachiosaurus
腙	hydrazone (chemistry)
腚	buttocks; butt
腜	quickening of the fetus
腠	the tissue between the skin and the flesh
腡	fingerprint
腥	fishy (smell)
腥臭	fishy and smelly
腥風血雨	(lit.) foul wind and bloody rain (idiom)
腦	brain; mind; head
腦下垂體	pituitary glands (at the base of the skull)
腦中風	cerebral stroke
腦充血	stroke; cerebral hemorrhage
腦兒	brains (as food)
腦內啡	endorphin
腦出血	cerebral hemorrhage
腦力	mental capacity
腦力勞動	mental labor; intellectual work
腦力激盪	to brainstorm
腦勺	back of the head
腦卒中	stroke; cerebral hemorrhage
腦回	gyrus (neuroanatomy)
腦回路	train of thought; way of thinking
腦圖	mind map
腦垂體	pituitary gland
腦子	brains; mind
腦子有泡	soft in the head; brainless; dumb
腦子進水	to have lost one's mind; crazy; soft in the head
腦室	ventricles of the brain
腦島	insula
腦幹	brain stem
腦後	the back of the head; (fig.) the back of one's mind
腦性麻痺	cerebral palsy; spasticity
腦成像技術	brain imaging technique
腦抽	(slang) to have a brain fart; to act stupidly
腦損傷	brain damage
腦杓	the spoon shape slope on the nape
腦梗	cerebral infarction (abbr. for 腦梗死|脑梗死[nao3 geng3 si3] or 腦梗塞|脑梗塞[nao3 geng3 se4])
腦梗塞	cerebral infarction
腦梗死	cerebral infarction
腦橋	(anatomy) pons
腦機接口	brain-computer interface
腦死亡	brain death
腦殘	moronic; brainless; bonehead
腦殘粉	(slang) fanboy; fangirl
腦殼	(coll.) head; skull; (fig.) brains (mental capacity)
腦水腫	cerebral edema
腦汁	brains
腦波	brain wave; EEG
腦洞大開	imaginative; to have one's mind buzzing with ideas
腦海	the mind; the brain
腦液	brain fluid
腦溝	sulcus (neuroanatomy)
腦溢血	cerebral hemorrhage; stroke
腦滿腸肥	(idiom) overweight as a result of living a life of privilege
腦漿	brains
腦炎	encephalitis
腦瓜	skull; brain; head
腦瓢兒	top of the head; crown
腦病	brain disease; encephalopathy
腦瘤	brain tumor
腦癱	cerebral palsy
腦神經	cranial nerves
腦筋	brains; mind; head
腦細胞	brain cell
腦脊液	cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
腦腫瘤	brain tumor
腦膜	meninx; meninges; membranes lining the brain
腦膜炎	meningitis
腦花	brain (served as a culinary dish)
腦葉	lobe of the brain
腦血管屏障	blood brain barrier
腦血管疾病	cerebrovascular disease
腦袋	head; skull; brains
腦袋開花	to blow one's brain out
腦補	(Internet slang) to imagine; to visualize
腦貧血	cerebral anemia
腦起搏器	deep brain stimulator; brain pacemaker
腦門	forehead
腦門子	forehead (dialect)
腦際	mind; memory
腦電圖	electroencephalogram (EEG)
腦震盪	(med.) cerebral concussion
腦霧	brain fog
腦髓	brain tissue; gray matter; brain
腧	(bound form) acupuncture point
腧穴	acupuncture point
腩	brisket; belly beef
腩炙	stewed brisket
腫	to swell; swelling; swollen
腫塊	swelling; growth; tumor
腫大	swelling; enlargement; hypertrophy
腫瘤	tumor
腫瘤切除術	lumpectomy
腫瘤學	oncology
腫瘤科	oncology
腫脹	swelling; oedema; internal bruising
腫麼	Internet slang for 怎麼|怎么[zen3 me5]
腬	greasy (Cantonese)
腮	cheek
腮幫	cheek; upper (of a shoe)
腮幫子	cheek
腮托	chin rest (e.g. for a violin)
腮紅	rouge (cosmetics)
腮腺	parotid gland; saliva gland in cheek
腮腺炎	mumps
腮頰	cheek; jaw
腮鬍	sideburns
腯	fat (of pigs)
腰	the waist and lower back; (bound form) kidney of an animal (as food)
腰包	waist purse (old); (fig.) purse; pocket
腰圍	waist measurement; girth
腰子	kidney
腰封	wide belt; sash; (packaging) paper sash around a book or other product
腰帶	belt
腰斬	to chop sb in half at the waist (capital punishment)
腰板	waist and back; physique
腰果	cashew nuts
腰果雞丁	chicken with cashew nuts
腰桿	(a person's) back (usu. as sth one keeps straight)
腰桿子	waist; small of the back; (fig.) backing
腰椎	lumbar vertebra
腰椎間盤	lumbar intervertebral disk
腰椎間盤突出	lumbar disc herniation
腰突	lumbar disc herniation
腰窩	dimples of Venus; back dimples
腰纏萬貫	lit. ten thousand strings of cash in money belt (idiom); carrying lots of money
腰肉	loin
腰肢	waist
腰胯	hips; waist
腰臀比	waist-to-hip ratio
腰身	waist; waistline
腰部	waist; small of the back
腰金衣紫	golden seal at the waist, purple gown (idiom); in official position
腰間	waist
腰間肉	excess fat on the waist; love handles
腰際	waist; hips
腰骨	lumbar vertebrae
腰鼓	waist drum; waist-drum dance (Han ethnic group folk dance)
腱	tendon; sinew
腱外膜	(anatomy) epitenon
腱子	sinew
腱弓	tendon arch (anatomy)
腱炎	tendonitis
腱鞘	(anatomy) tendon sheath
腱鞘炎	tenosynovitis (medicine)
腳	foot; leg (of an animal or an object); base (of an object)
腳下	under the foot
腳不沾地	feet not touching the ground (idiom); to run like the wind
腳丫	(coll.) foot
腳丫子	(coll.) foot
腳位	foot position (in dance)
腳凳	footstool
腳剎	foot brake
腳印	footprint
腳夫	porter; bearer
腳孤拐	bunion; hallux valgus
腳尖	the extremity of the foot
腳底	soles of the feet
腳底板	(coll.) sole of the foot
腳後跟	heel
腳心	arch of the foot
腳戶	porter; donkey driver
腳手架	scaffolding
腳指甲	toenail
腳掌	the sole of the foot
腳本	script; screenplay; scenario; libretto; (computing) script
腳板	the sole of the foot
腳架	tripod; stand
腳桿	(dialect) leg
腳正不怕鞋歪	lit. a straight foot has no fear of a crooked shoe
腳步	footstep; step
腳氣	athlete's foot; tinea pedis; beriberi
腳氣病	beriberi
腳注	footnote
腳爪	paw; claw
腳癬	athlete's foot
腳程	walking speed; distance traveled by foot
腳背	instep (upper surface of the foot)
腳脖子	(coll.) ankle
腳腕	ankle
腳誤	foot fault (tennis etc)
腳趾	toe
腳趾頭	toe
腳跟	heel
腳跟腳	one closely following the other
腳踏	pedal
腳踏兩條船	lit. to stand with each foot in a different boat (idiom)
腳踏兩隻船	to have a foot in both camps; to have a bet each way
腳踏實地	to have one's feet firmly planted on the ground (idiom); realistic without flights of fancy
腳踏板	pedal; treadle; (motor scooter) floorboard
腳踏車	(Tw) bicycle; bike
腳踏鈸	hi-hat (drum kit component)
腳踝	ankle
腳蹬	pedal
腳蹼	flippers; fins
腳輪	caster (attached to the bottom of furniture, trolleys etc)
腳違例	foot fault (tennis etc)
腳錢	payment to a porter
腳鏈	ankle bracelet
腳鐐	fetters; leg-irons
腳面	instep (upper surface of the foot)
腴	fat on belly; fertile; rich
腶	dried meat
腸	intestines
腸仔	sausage
腸壁	wall of intestine; lining of gut
腸套疊	intussusception (medicine)
腸子	intestines
腸支	cecum
腸易激綜合徵	irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)
腸毒素	enterotoxins
腸炎	enteritis
腸病毒	enterovirus
腸管	intestine; gut
腸粉	rice noodle roll, a roll made from sheets of rice flour dough, steamed and stuffed with meat, vegetables etc
腸胃	stomach and intestine; digestive system
腸胃炎	gastroenteritis
腸胃道	digestive tract
腸蠕動	peristalsis (wave movement of gut wall)
腸衣	sausage casing
腸道	intestines; gut
腸鏡	colonoscope
腹	abdomen; stomach; belly
腹吸盤	acetabulum (part of the pelvis bone)
腹哀	Abdominal Lament; acupuncture point SP 16
腹地	hinterland; interior; outback
腹壁	abdominal wall
腹帶	belly band
腹水	(medicine) ascites; ascitic fluid; hydroperitoneum
腹瀉	diarrhea; to have the runs
腹痛	bellyache; stomach pain
腹直肌	rectus abdominis muscle (aka abdominals or abs)
腹稿	mental outline
腹笥便便	a learned person (idiom)
腹肌	abdominal muscle
腹股溝	groin (anatomy)
腹背受敵	(idiom) to be attacked from the front and rear
腹背相親	to be on intimate terms with sb (idiom)
腹腔	abdominal cavity
腹膜	peritoneum (anatomy)
腹語	ventriloquism
腹語師	ventriloquist
腹語術	ventriloquism
腹誹	silent curse or disagreement; unspoken criticism
腹足	gastropod (class of mollusks including snails)
腹足綱	gastropod (class of mollusks including snails)
腹部	abdomen; belly; flank
腹部絞痛	abdominal cramping
腹鰭	ventral fin; pelvic fin
腹黑	(slang) outwardly kind but inwardly evil; two-faced
腺	gland
腺嘌呤	adenine nucleotide (A, pairs with thymine T 胸腺嘧啶 in DNA and with uracil U 尿嘧啶 in RNA)
腺嘌呤核苷三磷酸	adenosine triphosphate (ATP)
腺垂體	pituitary gland
腺樣	adenoid gland; pharyngeal tonsil
腺毛	(botany) glandular hair
腺病	adenosis (glandular disease)
腺病毒	adenovirus
腺癌	adenocarcinoma
腺苷	adenosine
腺體	gland
腺鼠疫	bubonic plague
腿	leg
腿了	(Tw) (Internet slang) too late, someone posted that already (supposedly from "lag" misspelled as "leg")
腿後腱	hamstring muscle
腿毛	leg hair
腿玩年	(slang) stunning legs; sexy legs
腿肚子	calf (back of the leg below the knee)
腿腕	ankle
腿腳	legs and feet; ability to walk; strides
腿號	legband (on a bird)
腿部	leg
膀	used in 吊膀子[diao4 bang4 zi5]
膀大腰圓	tall and strong; burly; beefy
膀子	upper arm; arm; wing
膀爺	topless guy (man who, in a public place, is not wearing a shirt)
膀胱	urinary bladder
膀胱氣化	(TCM) the extraction of impure fluid by the kidneys and the passing of it from the body by the bladder as urine
膀胱炎	cystitis
膀臂	upper arm; arm; reliable helper
膁	(usu. of an animal) the part of the side of the body between the ribs and the hipbone
膂	backbone; strength
膂力	strength; bodily strength; brawn
膃	used in 膃肭|腽肭[wa4 na4]
膃肭	fur seal; (literary) fat; obese
膃肭獸	fur seal (Callorhinus ursinus Linnaeus)
膃肭臍	penis and testes of fur seal (used in TCM)
膆	(literary) fat
膇	swelling of foot
膈	used in 膈應|膈应[ge4 ying5]
膈應	(coll.) objectionable; to feel revolted; to gross (sb) out
膈肌	diaphragm (anatomy)
膈膜	diaphragm (anatomy)
膊	shoulder; upper arm
膋	fat on intestines
膏	to moisten; to grease; to apply (cream, ointment)
膏方	medicinal concoction in paste form (TCM)
膏立	to annoint
膏粱	fatty meat and fine grains; (by extension) exquisite food
膏粱子弟	(idiom) pampered scion of a wealthy family
膏藥	herbal plaster applied to a wound
膏藥旗	Japanese flag (derog.)
膏血	lit. fat and blood; fruit of one's hard labor; flesh and blood
膔	(archaic) stomach rumbling; borborygmus
膕	knee pit; popliteal fossa (medicine)
膕動脈	popliteal artery (anatomy)
膕旁腱肌	hamstring (anatomy)
膕窩	popliteal (anatomy); hollow at the back of the knee
膕窩囊腫	Baker's cyst or popliteal cyst (medicine)
膕繩肌	hamstring (anatomy)
膕肌	popliteus (anatomy)
膕靜脈	popliteal vein (anatomy)
膗	(dialect) grossly overweight; obese
膘	(usu. of livestock) fat
膘肥	(of a stock animal) well-fed; fat
膘肥體壯	(of a livestock animal) plump and strong; well-fed
膙	(bound form) callus
膙子	(dialect) callus
膚	skin
膚淺	superficial; shallow
膚色	skin color
膛	(bound form) hollow space
膛徑	caliber (of a gun)
膛線	rifling (helical grooves inside the barrel of a gun)
膜	membrane; film
膜孔	hole in the body of a musical instrument, covered with a membrane which produces a buzzing tone
膜拜	to kneel and bow with joined hands at forehead level; to worship
膜炎	inflammation of membrane; membranitis
膜翅目	Hymenoptera (insect order including ants and bees)
膝	knee
膝上型	laptop (computer)
膝上型電腦	laptop (computer)
膝上舞	lap dance
膝下	at the knee (in reference to children)
膝蓋	knee; (Internet slang) to kneel down (in admiration)
膝蓋骨	kneecap
膝袒	to walk on one's knees and bare one's breast (a gesture of deepest apology)
膞	(dialect) gizzard
膟	sacrificial flesh
膠	to glue; glue; gum
膠乳	latex
膠印	offset printing
膠卷	roll of film
膠原	collagen (protein)
膠原蛋白	collagen
膠原質	collagen (protein)
膠合	to join with glue
膠合板	plywood
膠囊	(pharm.) capsule
膠囊旅館	capsule hotel
膠囊酒店	capsule hotel
膠圈	rubber ring; gasket
膠子	gluon (particle physics)
膠州市	Jiaozhou, a county-level city in Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
膠州灣	Gulf of Jiaozhou (Shandong province)
膠布	adhesive plaster; band-aid; rubber tape
膠帶	adhesive tape; magnetic tape
膠接	to splice; a glued joint; a bond
膠木	bakelite
膠束	(chemistry) micelle
膠棒	glue stick
膠水	glue
膠泥	clay
膠片	(photographic) film
膠版印刷	offset printing
膠狀	gluey; gelatinous; colloid (chemistry)
膠粒	colloid; colloidal particles
膠結	to glue; to cement; a bond
膠著	to stick onto; stalemate; gridlock
膠質	colloid; gelatinous matter
膠輪	pneumatic tire; rubber tire
膠鞋	rubber overshoes; galoshes
膠體	colloid
膠黏	sticky; adhesive
膠黏劑	glue; adhesive
膣	vagina
膦	phosphine
膨	swollen
膨化	to pop (corn into popcorn); to puff (grains, legumes etc)
膨壓	turgor pressure (botany)
膨大	to swell; to inflate
膨潤土	bentonite (mineralogy)
膨脹	to expand; to inflate; to swell
膨鬆劑	leavening agent
膩	greasy; soft; unctuous
膩人	greasy; boring
膩友	intimate friend
膩味	tired of; fed up with; sick of; (of a person) to annoy; to be tiresome
膩子	putty (same as 泥子); frequent caller; hanger-on
膩歪	(of a couple) to be sweet to each other; lovey-dovey
膩煩	bored; to be fed up with; sick and tired of sth
膩蟲	aphid
膪	used in 囊膪[nang1 chuai4]
膫	name of a state during Han Dynasty
膰	cooked meat used in sacrifice
膳	meals
膳食	meals; food
膳食纖維	dietary fiber
膳魔師	Thermos (brand)
膴	big piece of meat; dried meat
膵	pancreas
膷	hashed beef; soup
膺	breast; receive
膺選	to be elected
膻	fetid; gamy; rank; (esp.) hircine
膻中穴	(TCM) acupuncture point CV-17, located in the middle of the chest
膽	gall bladder; courage; guts
膽力	courage; bravery
膽囊	gallbladder
膽固醇	cholesterol
膽大	daring; bold; audacious
膽大包天	reckless; extremely daring
膽大妄為	daring; presumptuous; daredevil
膽子	courage; nerve; guts
膽寒	to fear; to be terrified
膽小	cowardice; timid
膽小如鼠	(idiom) chicken-hearted; gutless
膽小鬼	coward
膽怯	timidity; timid; cowardly
膽戰	to tremble with fear
膽戰心驚	to tremble with fear (idiom); scared witless
膽敢	to dare (negative connotation); to have the audacity to (do sth)
膽氣	courageous; bold
膽汁	gall; bile
膽略	courage and resource
膽石	gallstone
膽石症	gallstone
膽石絞痛	gallstone colic
膽破	to be frightened to death
膽管	bile duct
膽紅素	bilirubin
膽結石	gallstone
膽綠素	biliverdin
膽肥	(coll.) bold; brazen; to have a lot of nerve
膽色素	bilirubin
膽識	courage and insight
膽道	bile duct
膽量	courage; boldness; guts
膽顫心驚	panic-stricken
膽魄	boldness; daring
膽鹼	choline (amine related to vitamin B complex)
膽鹼酯酶	(biochemistry) cholinesterase
膾	chopped meat or fish
膾炙人口	appealing to the masses; universally appreciated (idiom)
膿	pus
膿包	pustule; (fig.) worthless person; a good-for-nothing
膿毒症	sepsis
膿水	pus
膿泡	pustule; pussy pimple; same as 膿包|脓包[nong2 bao1]
膿液	pus
膿痂疹	impetigo (medicine)
膿皰	pimple containing pus
膿腫	abscess
臀	buttocks; hips; rump
臀位	breech presentation (obstetrics)
臀位分娩	breech delivery (medicine)
臀位取胎術	breech extraction (medicine)
臀圍	hip measurement
臀大肌	(anatomy) gluteus maximus
臀尖	pork rump
臀推	massage using one's buttocks
臀溝	gluteal fold
臀瓣	anal lobe
臀產式分娩	breech delivery (medicine)
臀疣	monkey's seat pads (zoology)
臀肌	gluteal muscle; gluteus; buttocks
臀部	butt; buttocks
臀鰭	anal fin
臁	sides of the lower part of the leg
臂	arm
臂力	arm strength
臂力棒	power twister (fitness equipment)
臂展	arm span
臂彎	crook of the arm
臂章	armband; armlet; shoulder emblem
臂紗	armband
臂膀	arm
臂膊	arm
臃	used in 臃腫|臃肿[yong1 zhong3]
臃腫	obese; bloated; swollen (style)
臄	palate; sausage
臆	(bound form) chest; breast; (bound form) inner feelings; subjective
臆想	subjective idea
臆想狂	mythomaniac
臆想症	mythomania
臆斷	to assume; assumption
臆測	to speculate; to conjecture
臆羚	chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra)
臆見	subjective view
臆造	to concoct; to dream up
臇	fat, rich; a stew of fish
臉	face
臉上貼金	(lit.) to apply gold leaf to the face of a statue (idiom)
臉厚	thick-skinned; brazen
臉型	shape of face; physiognomy
臉基尼	facekini
臉大	bold; unafraid
臉孔	face
臉巴子	cheek
臉形	physiognomy
臉書	Facebook
臉皮	face; cheek
臉皮厚	brazen
臉皮嫩	bashful; shy
臉皮薄	thin-skinned; sensitive
臉盆	washbowl; basin for washing hands and face
臉盤兒	face; contour of face
臉盲	face-blind; prosopagnosic
臉盲症	prosopagnosia; face blindness
臉相	complexion; looks; appearance of one's face
臉紅	to blush; to redden (with shame, indignation etc)
臉紅筋暴	red and tense with anger (idiom)
臉紅筋漲	red and tense with anger (idiom)
臉紅脖子粗	red in the face; extremely angry
臉罩	visor
臉膛	facial contour; facial shape
臉色	complexion; look
臉薄	bashful; shy
臉蛋	cheek; face
臉蛋兒	cheek; face (often of child)
臉蛋子	cheek; face
臉譜	types of facial makeup in operas
臉部	face
臉部表情	facial expression
臉都綠了	green in the face (idiom); to look unwell
臉面	face
臉頰	cheek
臉龐	face
臊	to smell of urine (or sweat etc)
臊子	(dialect) minced or diced meat (as part of a dish)
臊氣	foul smell; stench; smell of urine
臊眉耷眼	(dialect) ashamed
臊腥	stench; stink
臌	dropsical; swollen
臍	(bound form) the navel; the umbilicus
臍屎	newborn baby's excrement (meconium)
臍帶	umbilical cord
臍梗	umbilical cord
臍橙	navel orange
臍裝	crop top
臍輪	manipūra or manipura, the solar plexus chakra 查克拉, residing in the upper abdomen
臏刑	removal of the kneecaps (punishment)
臐	lamb soup
臑	biceps (in Chinese medicine); (arch.) forelimbs of livestock animal
臖	to swell; swelling
臘	ancient practice of offering sacrifices to the gods in the 12th lunar month
臘克	lacquer (loanword)
臘八節	Laba rice porridge festival, on the 8th day of the 12th lunar month
臘八粥	Laba congee, ceremonial rice porridge dish eaten on the 8th day of the 12th month in the Chinese calendar
臘月	twelfth lunar month
臘梅	wintersweet; Japanese allspice; Chimonanthus praecox
臘肉	meat that has been cured and air-dried in the cold (esp. during the 12th lunar month)
臘腸	sausage
臘腸犬	dachshund
臚	belly; skin; to state
臛	(literary) meat broth
臟	viscera; (anatomy) organ
臟器	internal organs
臟腑	inner organs
臟躁	hysteria
臠	skinny; sliced meat
臢	used in 腌臢|腌臜[a1 za1]; Taiwan pr. [zang1]
臣	state official or subject in dynastic China
臣一主二	One has the right to choose the ruler one serves. (ancient proverb)
臣下	official in feudal court; subject
臣僕	servant
臣僚	court official (in former times)
臣妾	(literary) I, your servant (self-appellation of a lower-rank female)
臣子	official in feudal court; subject
臣屬	official in feudal court; subject
臣服	to acknowledge allegiance to (some regime); to serve
臣民	subject (of a kingdom, ruler etc)
臣虜	slave
臥	to lie; to crouch
臥不安	restless insomnia
臥位	berth
臥佛	reclining Buddha
臥倒	to lie down; to drop to the ground
臥內	bedroom
臥具	bedding
臥室	bedroom
臥床	to lie in bed; bedridden; bed
臥底	to hide (as an undercover agent); an insider (in a gang of thieves)
臥式	(of an object or device) horizontal in design; intended to lie flat or operate in a lying position
臥房	bedroom
臥推	bench press
臥果兒	a poached egg
臥榻	a couch; a narrow bed
臥槽	(Internet slang) (substitute for 我肏[wo3 cao4]) fuck; WTF
臥病	ill in bed; bed-ridden
臥艙	sleeping cabin on a boat or train
臥草	(substitute for 我肏[wo3 cao4]) fuck; WTF
臥薪嘗膽	(lit.) to sleep on brushwood and taste gall (like King Goujian of Yue 勾踐|勾践[Gou1 jian4], in order to recall one's humiliations) (idiom)
臥虎	crouching tiger; fig. major figure in hiding; concealed talent
臥虎藏龍	Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, movie by Ang Lee 李安[Li3 An1]
臥蠶	plump lower eyelids (considered to be an attractive feature)
臥車	(railroad) sleeping car
臥軌	to lie across the railway tracks (to commit suicide or to prevent trains from getting through)
臥鋪	a bed (on a train); a couchette
臥龍	nickname of Zhuge Liang 諸葛亮|诸葛亮
臥龍區	Wolong, a district of Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
臥龍大熊貓保護區	Wolong Giant Panda Nature Reserve in Wenchuan county, northwest Sichuan
臥龍崗	Wollongong, Australia
臥龍自然保護區	Wolong National Nature Reserve in Wenchuan county, northwest Sichuan, home of the giant panda 大熊貓|大熊猫[da4 xiong2 mao1]
臧	surname Zang
臧克家	Zang Kejia (1905-2004), Chinese poet
臨	to face; to overlook; to arrive
臨了	at the last moment; right at the end
臨刑	facing execution
臨別	just before parting
臨別贈言	words of advice on parting
臨到	to befall
臨危	dying (from illness); facing death; on one's deathbed
臨危受命	(idiom) to take on a leadership role at a time of crisis
臨危授命	to sacrifice one's life in a crisis
臨問	to go personally to consult subordinates (of a high official)
臨城縣	Lincheng, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
臨場	to be at the scene (sitting for an exam, performing, competing, giving directions etc)
臨場感	the feeling of actually being there
臨夏回族自治州	Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture, in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
臨夏市	Linxia, a county-level city in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
臨夏縣	Linxia, a county in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
臨安區	Lin'an, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
臨寫	to copy (a model of calligraphy or painting)
臨屯郡	Lintun Commandery (108 BC–c. 300 AD), one of four Han dynasty commanderies in north Korea
臨川區	Linchuan, a district of Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
臨帖	to practice calligraphy from a model
臨平區	Linping, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
臨幸	to go in person (of emperor)
臨床	(medicine) clinical
臨床死亡	clinical death
臨床特徵	clinical characteristic; diagnostic trait
臨床醫學	clinical medicine
臨戰	just before the contest; on the eve of war
臨摹	to copy (a model of calligraphy or painting etc)
臨時	as the time draws near; at the last moment; temporary
臨時保姆	temporary caregiver; babysitter
臨時分居	trial separation
臨時工	temporary worker; temp; temporary work
臨時抱佛腳	(idiom) see 抱佛腳|抱佛脚[bao4 fo2 jiao3]
臨時政府	provisional government
臨時演員	an extra (in a movie)
臨時貸款	bridging loan
臨月兒	the month childbirth is due
臨朐縣	Linqu, a county in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
臨朝	to hold a court audience
臨桂區	Lingui, a district of Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
臨武縣	Linwu, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
臨死	facing death; at death's door
臨死不怯	equanimity in the face of death; to face dangers with assurance
臨水	facing the water (favored location)
臨江市	Linjiang, a county-level city in Baishan City 白山市[Bai2 shan1 Shi4], Jilin
臨汾市	Linfen, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
臨沂市	Linyi, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
臨沭縣	Linshu, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
臨河區	Linhe, a district of Bayannur City 巴彥淖爾市|巴彦淖尔市[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
臨泉縣	Linquan, a county in Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
臨洮縣	Lintao, a county in Dingxi City 定西市[Ding4 xi1 Shi4], Gansu
臨海	to overlook the sea; on the waterfront
臨海市	Linhai, a county-level city in Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
臨海水土誌	Seaboard Geographic Gazetteer (c. 275) by Shen Ying 沈瑩|沈莹
臨淄區	Linzi, a district of Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
臨淵羨魚，不如退而結網	better to go home and weave a net than to stand by the pond longing for fish (idiom)
臨清市	Linqing, a county-level city in Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
臨渭區	Linwei, a district of Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
臨渴掘井	lit. not to dig a well until one is thirsty
臨渴穿井	lit. face thirst and dig a well (idiom); fig. not to make adequate provision
臨湘市	Linxiang, a county-level city in Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
臨滄市	Lincang, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
臨演	an extra (in a movie) (abbr. for 臨時演員|临时演员[lin2 shi2 yan3 yuan2])
臨漳縣	Linzhang, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
臨潁縣	Linying, a county in Luohe City 漯河市[Luo4 he2 Shi4], Henan
臨潭縣	Lintan, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
臨潼區	Lintong, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
臨澤縣	Linze, a county in Zhangye City 張掖市|张掖市[Zhang1 ye4 Shi4], Gansu
臨澧縣	Linli, a county in Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
臨猗縣	Linyi, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
臨產	to face childbirth; about to give birth
臨界	critical; boundary
臨界狀態	critical state; criticality
臨界質量	critical mass
臨界點	critical point; boundary point
臨盆	at childbirth; in labor
臨眺	to observe from afar; to look into the distance from a high place
臨終	approaching death; on one's deathbed
臨終關懷	end-of-life care; hospice care; palliative care
臨縣	Lin County or Linxian, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
臨翔區	Linxiang, a district of Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
臨蓐	at childbirth; in labor
臨行	on leaving; on the point of departure
臨街	facing the street
臨街房	the store front
臨西縣	Linxi, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
臨視	to observe personally
臨走	before leaving; on departure
臨近	to approach; to draw near; to be close to (in space or time)
臨邑縣	Linyi, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
臨門	to arrive home; facing one's home; home-coming
臨門一腳	to try to score (a goal); final push (at a critical juncture)
臨陣	just before the battle; to approach the front line
臨陣磨槍	(lit.) to sharpen one's spear only before going into battle (idiom)
臨陣退縮	to shrink back as the time for battle approaches (idiom)
臨難	in peril; facing disaster
臨頭	to befall; to be imminent
臨高	Lingao County, Hainan
臨高縣	Lingao County, Hainan
臨魁	Linkui (c. 2000 BC), second of the legendary Flame Emperors 炎帝[Yan2 di4] descended from Shennong 神農|神农[Shen2 nong2] Farmer God
自	(bound form) self; oneself; from; since
自上而下	(idiom) from top to bottom; top-down
自下而上	(idiom) from bottom to top; from the grass roots up; bottom-up
自不待言	needless to say; it goes without saying
自不必說	(idiom) needless to say; it goes without saying
自不量力	to overestimate one's capabilities (idiom)
自主	to act independently; to be autonomous; to be in control of one's own affairs
自主權	the power to act independently; autonomy; the right of self-determination
自主神經系統	autonomic nervous system
自主系統	autonomous system
自乘	(math.) to multiply (a number) by itself; to raise (a number) to a power; (esp.) to square (a number)
自乾五	(neologism) person who posts online in support of the Chinese government, but unlike a wumao 五毛[wu3 mao2], is not paid for doing so (abbr. for 自帶乾糧的五毛|自带干粮的五毛[zi4 dai4 gan1 liang2 de5 wu3 mao2])
自亂陣腳	(idiom) to lose one's head; to panic; to go to pieces
自以為是	to believe oneself infallible (idiom); to be opinionated
自作主張	(idiom) to act on one's own; to decide for oneself
自作多情	to imagine that one's love is reciprocated; to shower affection on an uninterested party
自作孽	to bring disaster on oneself
自作聰明	(idiom) to think oneself clever
自作自受	(idiom) to reap what one has sown; to stew in one's own juice
自來	from the beginning; always; to come of one's own accord
自來捲	natural curls; natural wave
自來水	running water; tap water
自來水筆	fountain pen
自來水管	water mains; service pipe; tap-water pipe
自來熟	(coll.) naturally outgoing with strangers; quick to act like an old acquaintance; sb who has this trait
自便	to do as one pleases; to not inconvenience oneself
自保	to defend oneself; self-defense; self-preservation
自信	to have confidence in oneself; self-confidence
自信心	self-confidence
自修	to study on one's own; self-study
自個兒	(dialect) oneself; by oneself
自備	to provide one's own...; own; self-provided
自傲	arrogance; proud of sth
自傳	autobiography
自刎	to commit suicide by cutting one's own throat
自制	to maintain self-control; self-control
自制力	self-control
自創	to create; to come up with (an idea etc)
自力更生	regeneration through one's own effort (idiom); self-reliance
自助	self-service
自助洗衣店	laundromat; launderette
自助遊	to travel independently
自助餐	buffet; self-service meal
自勉	to encourage oneself
自動	automatic; voluntarily
自動付款機	cash dispenser; auto-teller; ATM
自動免疫	active immunity
自動化	to automate
自動化技術	automation
自動取款機	automated teller machine (ATM)
自動售貨機	vending machine
自動扶梯	escalator
自動掛擋	automatic gear change
自動控制	automatic control
自動提款機	bank autoteller; ATM
自動換刀裝置	automatic tool changer (ATC)
自動擋	automatic transmission; auto gear shift
自動樓梯	escalator
自動櫃員機	automated teller machine (ATM)
自動步道	moving walkway; travelator
自動自發	(to act) on one's own initiative
自動裝箱	autoboxing (computing)
自動販賣機	vending machine
自動車	automobile
自動鉛筆	mechanical pencil; propelling pencil
自動離合	automatic clutch
自動體外除顫器	AED (automated external defibrillator)
自動點唱機	jukebox; nickelodeon
自卑	to have low self-esteem; to abase oneself
自卑心理	sense of inferiority; inferiority complex
自卑情緒	inferiority complex
自卸車	dump truck
自反	to introspect; to self-reflect; (math.) reflexive
自取	to help oneself to (food); to invite (trouble); to court (disaster)
自取其辱	(idiom) to embarrass oneself
自取滅亡	to court disaster (idiom); to dig one's own grave
自古	(since) ancient times; (from) time immemorial
自古以來	since ancient times
自吹自擂	to blow one's own trumpet (idiom)
自告奮勇	to volunteer for; to offer to undertake
自命	to consider oneself to be (sth positive)
自命不凡	to think too much of oneself; self-important; arrogant
自命清高	to think of oneself as high and pure (idiom); smug and self-righteous
自問	to ask oneself; to search one's soul
自啟	(of a machine, app etc) to start on its own; to autostart
自喻	to refer to oneself as
自嗨	(slang) to have fun by oneself; to amuse oneself
自嘆不如	to consider oneself as being not as good as the others
自嘲	to mock oneself; to laugh at oneself
自圓其說	(idiom) to make a story or theory consistent; to give a plausible explanation; to plug the holes in one's story
自在	comfortable; at ease
自報公議	self-assessment; declare one's state for open discussion
自報家門	to introduce oneself
自大	arrogant
自大狂	megalomania; egomania; delusions of grandeur
自失	at a loss
自奉儉約	to live frugally
自奉甚儉	(idiom) to allow oneself few comforts or pleasures
自如	unobstructed; unconstrained; smoothly
自始	from the outset; ab initio
自始至終	from start to finish (idiom)
自娛	to amuse oneself
自娛自樂	to entertain oneself
自媒體	self-media (news or other content published on independently-operated social media accounts)
自學	self-study; to study on one's own
自學成才	a self-made genius
自定義	custom; user-defined
自宮	to castrate oneself
自家	oneself; one's own family
自家人	sb with whom one is on familiar terms
自封	to proclaim oneself (sth); to give oneself the title of
自封袋	resealable bag; ziplock bag
自專	to act arbitrarily; to act for oneself
自尊	self-respect; self-esteem; ego
自尊心	self-respect; self-esteem; ego
自尋死路	to follow the path to one's own doom (idiom)
自尋煩惱	to bring trouble on oneself (idiom)
自導	self-guided; autonomous
自導自演	to direct a movie in which one also plays a major role as an actor
自小	since childhood; from a young age
自居	to consider oneself as; to believe oneself to be
自己	oneself; (attributive) one's own
自己人	those on our side; ourselves; one's own people
自己動手	to do (sth) oneself; to help oneself to
自帶	to bring one's own; BYO; (of software) preinstalled
自幼	since childhood; from a young age
自序	author's preface; autobiographical notes as introduction to a book
自底向上	bottom-up
自強	to strive for self-improvement
自強不息	to strive unremittingly; self-improvement
自強自立	to strive for self-improvement
自強運動	Self-Strengthening Movement (period of reforms in China c 1861-1894), also named 洋務運動|洋务运动
自律	self-discipline; self-regulation; autonomy (ethics)
自律性組織	Self-Regulation Organization; SRO
自律神經系統	autonomic nervous system
自得	contented; pleased with one's position
自得其樂	to find amusement in one's own way; to enjoy oneself quietly
自從	since (a time); ever since
自忖	to speculate; to ponder
自怨自艾	to be full of remorse; to repent and redress one's errors
自恃	self-esteem; self-reliance; overconfident
自悔	to regret; to repent
自愈	to heal oneself; to repair itself; self-healing
自愛	self-respect; self-love; self-regard
自愧不如	ashamed of being inferior (idiom); to feel inferior to others
自愧弗如	to feel ashamed at being inferior (idiom)
自慚形穢	(idiom) to feel inferior; to feel inadequate
自慰	to console oneself; to masturbate; onanism
自懂事以來	for as long as one can remember
自戀	narcissism
自成一家	to have a style of one's own
自我	the self; oneself; self-; (psychology) ego
自我介紹	self-introduction; to introduce oneself
自我催眠	self-hypnotism
自我吹噓	to blow one's own horn (idiom)
自我安慰	to comfort oneself; to console oneself; to reassure oneself
自我實現	self-actualization (psychology); self-realization
自我意識	self-awareness
自我批評	self-criticism
自我解嘲	to refer to one's foibles or failings with self-deprecating humor
自我防衛	self-defense
自我陶醉	self-satisfied; self-imbued; narcissistic
自戕	(literary) to commit suicide; to take one's own life
自打	(coll.) since
自找	to suffer as a consequence of one's own actions; you asked for it
自找苦吃	to bring trouble on oneself
自找麻煩	to ask for trouble; to invite difficulties
自抑	to control oneself
自投羅網	to walk right into the trap
自拍	to take a picture or video of oneself; to take a selfie; a selfie
自拍器	camera self-timer (for delayed shutter release)
自拍桿	selfie stick
自拍模式	camera self-timer mode (for delayed shutter release)
自拍照	selfie
自拍神器	selfie stick
自拔	to free oneself; to extricate oneself from a difficult situation
自持	to control onself; to exercise self-restraint; self-sustaining
自指	self-reference
自掏腰包	to pay out of one's own pocket; to dig into one's pocket
自排	automatic transmission
自掘墳墓	to dig one's own grave
自控	automated; automatically regulated; to control oneself
自摸	(mahjong) to self-draw the winning tile
自救	to get oneself out of trouble
自新	to reform oneself; to mend one's ways and start life anew
自旋	(physics) spin (of a particle)
自暴自棄	to abandon oneself to despair; to give up and stop bothering
自有	(I, they etc) of course have (a plan, a way etc)
自有品牌	private brand
自查	to inspect oneself; to carry out a self-inspection
自檢	to act with self-restraint; to examine oneself; to perform a self-test
自欺	to deceive oneself
自欺欺人	to deceive others and to deceive oneself; to believe one's own lies
自此	since then; henceforth
自殘	to mutilate oneself; self-harm
自殺	to kill oneself; to commit suicide; to attempt suicide
自殺式	suicide (attack); suicidal
自殺式炸彈	a suicide bomb
自殺式爆炸	suicide bombing
自毀	to destroy one's (reputation etc); (of a device etc) to self-destruct
自比	to liken oneself to (sb or sth)
自民黨	Liberal Democratic Party (Japanese political party)
自沉	to scuttle (a ship); to drown oneself
自治	autonomy
自治區	autonomous region – a provincial-level administrative division of China with self-governance for ethnic minorities (five in total: Guangxi, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Xinjiang and Tibet)
自治州	autonomous prefecture
自治市	municipality; autonomous city
自治旗	autonomous county (in Inner Mongolia); autonomous banner
自治機關	governing body of an autonomous territory
自治權	the right to autonomy; autonomy
自治縣	autonomous county
自況	to compare oneself; to view oneself as
自洽	logically consistent; to make sense
自洽性	logical consistency
自流井區	Ziliujing, a district of Zigong City 自貢市|自贡市[Zi4 gong4 Shi4], Sichuan
自淫	masturbation
自溺	to drown oneself
自滿	complacent; self-satisfied
自潔	to cleanse oneself; to sanctify oneself
自瀆	masturbation; to masturbate
自焚	to set oneself on fire; to self-immolate
自然	nature; natural; naturally
自然主義	naturalism (philosophy)
自然之友	Friends of Nature (Chinese environmental NGO)
自然人	natural person (law)
自然保護區	nature reserve
自然史	natural history (i.e. botany and zoology)
自然對數	(math.) natural logarithm
自然層	natural layer (in an archaeological dig)
自然拼讀	phonics
自然捲	natural curls; natural wave
自然數	natural number
自然數集	(math.) the set of natural numbers
自然條件	natural conditions
自然歷史	natural history
自然段	paragraph
自然法	natural law
自然災害	natural disaster
自然現象	natural phenomenon
自然界	nature; the natural world
自然療法	natural therapy
自然發音	phonics (Tw)
自然神論	deism, theological theory of God who does not interfere in the Universe
自然科學	natural sciences
自然科學基金會	natural science fund
自然經濟	natural economy (exchange of goods by bartering not involving money)
自然而然	(idiom) natural; unforced
自然語言	natural language
自然語言處理	natural language processing, NLP
自然資源	natural resource
自然選擇	natural selection
自然醒	to wake up naturally (without an alarm)
自然銅	natural copper; chalcopyrite; copper iron sulfide CuFeS2
自然風光	nature and scenery
自熱	to heat up by itself; (attributive) self-heating (esp. of meal kits heated with a water-activated pack)
自燃	spontaneous combustion
自營	self-operated; to operate one's own business
自營商	dealer
自爆	to explode; spontaneous detonation; self-detonation
自理	to take care of oneself; to provide for oneself
自甘墮落	to abandon oneself (idiom); to let oneself go
自生自滅	to emerge and perish on its own; to run its course (idiom)
自用	to have (sth) for one's own use; (literary) to be opinionated
自由	freedom; liberty; free; unrestricted
自由中國	Free China (Cold War era term for the Republic of China on Taiwan, as distinct from "Red China")
自由主義	liberalism
自由亞洲電台	Radio Free Asia
自由企業	free enterprise (in capitalist theory)
自由刑	(law) deprivation of freedom
自由化	liberalization; freeing (from sth)
自由古巴	Cuba Libre
自由城	Freetown, capital of Sierra Leone (Tw)
自由基	free radical
自由基清除劑	radical scavenger (chemistry)
自由女神像	Statue of Liberty
自由市	Libreville, capital of Gabon (Tw)
自由市場	free market
自由度	(number of) degrees of freedom (physics and statistics)
自由式	freestyle (in sports)
自由意志	free will
自由意志主義	libertarianism
自由放任	laissez-faire
自由散漫	easygoing; lax; unconstrained
自由業	(Tw) liberal profession; profession practiced independently rather than as an employee
自由民主黨	Liberal Democratic Party
自由泳	freestyle swimming
自由活動	free time (between organized activities)
自由派	liberal
自由港	free port
自由潛水	freediving; skin diving
自由焓	free enthalpy (thermodynamics); Gibbs free energy
自由爵士樂	free jazz (music genre)
自由王國	realm of freedom (philosophy)
自由神像	Statue of Liberty
自由素食主義	Freeganism
自由職業	liberal profession; profession practiced independently rather than as an employee
自由職業者	self-employed professional; independent practitioner
自由能	(thermodynamics) free energy
自由自在	free and easy (idiom); carefree; leisurely
自由落體	free-fall
自由行	travel organized by oneself rather than in a tour group
自由貿易	free trade
自由貿易區	free trade zone; free trade area
自由軟件	free software (i.e. software for which sharing, modification etc is permitted)
自由軟件基金會	Free Software Foundation
自由選擇權	free agency
自由降落	free fall
自由體操	floor (gymnastics)
自由黨	Liberal Party
自留地	private plot allocated to an individual on a collective farm
自留山	hilly land allotted for private use
自畫像	self-portrait
自發	spontaneous
自發對稱破缺	spontaneous symmetry breaking (physics)
自發粉	self-rising flour
自發電位	electroencephalogram (EEG)
自白	confession; to make clear one's position or intentions; to brag
自白書	confession
自盡	to kill oneself; to commit suicide
自相	mutual; each other; one another
自相殘殺	to massacre one another (idiom); internecine strife
自相矛盾	to contradict oneself; self-contradictory; inconsistent
自相驚擾	to frighten one another
自相魚肉	butchering one another as fish and flesh (idiom); killing one another
自省	to examine oneself; to reflect on one's shortcomings; introspection
自矜	to boast; to blow one's own horn
自知之明	(idiom) self-knowledge
自知理虧	to know that one is in the wrong (idiom)
自研	(of an organization etc) to independently develop (a technology or product)
自私	selfish; selfishness
自私自利	everything for self and selfish profit (idiom); with no regard for others
自稱	to call oneself; to claim to be; to profess
自立	independent; self-reliant; self-sustaining
自立自強	to be self-reliant
自立門戶	to form one's own group or school of thought
自給	self-reliant
自給自足	self-sufficiency; autarky
自經	(literary) to hang oneself
自縊	to hang oneself
自縛手腳	to bind oneself hand and foot
自罪	actual sin (Christian notion, as opposed to original sin 原罪)
自習	to study outside of class time (reviewing one's lessons)
自耕農	owner peasant; land-holding peasant
自舉	bootstrapping
自艾自憐	(idiom) to feel sorry for oneself
自花授粉	(botany) self-pollination
自若	calm; composed; at ease
自薦	to recommend oneself (for a job)
自行	voluntary; autonomous; by oneself
自行了斷	to take one's life
自行其是	to act as one thinks fit; to have one's own way
自行車	bicycle; bike
自行車架	bike rack; bicycle frame
自行車賽	cycle race
自行車道	bike path; bicycle trail; bike lane
自行車館	cycling stadium; velodrome
自衛	to defend oneself; self-defense
自衛隊	self-defense force; the Japanese armed forces
自裁	(literary) to kill oneself; to commit suicide
自裝	self-loading (weapon, tape deck etc)
自製	self-made; improvised; homemade
自要	so long as; provided that
自視	to view oneself
自視清高	to think highly of oneself (idiom); giving oneself airs
自視甚高	to think highly of oneself (idiom); giving oneself airs
自覺	to realize; to be aware of; to feel that; to be conscious of (sth relating to oneself)
自言	to say (sth that relates to oneself)
自言自語	(idiom) to talk to oneself; to think aloud; to soliloquize
自討沒趣	to invite a snub; to court a rebuff
自討苦吃	(idiom) to ask for trouble; to make a rod for one's own back
自訴	private prosecution (law); (of a patient) to describe (one's symptoms)
自詡	to pose as; to flaunt oneself as; to boast of; to brag
自誇	to boast
自認	to believe (sth in relation to oneself); to regard oneself as
自語	to talk to oneself
自謀出路	(idiom) to take matters into one's own hands; to go it alone
自謙	modest; self-deprecating
自譴	to blame oneself; self-recrimination
自變數	(math.) independent variable
自變量	(math.) independent variable
自豪	proud (of one's achievements etc)
自豪感	pride in sth; self-esteem
自負	conceited; to take responsibility
自負盈虧	responsible for its profit and losses (of organization)
自貢市	Zigong, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
自責	to blame oneself
自費	at one's own expense; self-funded
自貽伊戚	to create trouble for oneself (idiom)
自貿區	abbr. for 自由貿易區|自由贸易区[zi4 you2 mao4 yi4 qu1]
自足	self-sufficient; satisfied with oneself
自身	itself; oneself; one's own
自身利益	one's own interests
自身難保	powerless to defend oneself (idiom); helpless
自輕自賤	to belittle oneself; self-contempt
自轉	(of a celestial body) to rotate on its own axis
自轉軸	axis of rotation
自述	to recount in one's own words; autobiography
自適應	adaptive
自選	to choose by oneself; free to choose; optional
自酌	to enjoy a cup of wine by oneself
自重	to conduct oneself with dignity; to be dignified; deadweight
自閉症	autism
自頂向下	top-down
自願	voluntary
自願性	voluntary
自願者	volunteer; consenting participant
自顧不暇	(idiom) to have one's hands full managing one's own affairs
自顧自	each minding his own business
自食其力	lit. to eat off one's own strength (idiom)
自食其果	to eat one's own fruit (idiom); fig. suffering the consequences of one's own action
自食惡果	lit. to eat one's own bitter fruit (idiom)
自養	self-sustaining
自養生物	(biology) autotroph
自餒	to lose confidence; to be disheartened
自首	to give oneself up; to surrender (to the authorities)
自駕	to drive oneself somewhere
自駕租賃	self-drive hire (of a car etc)
自駕車	to drive oneself somewhere; private vehicle
自駕遊	to go on a self-drive tour; to go on a road trip
自體免疫疾病	autoimmune disease
自高	to be proud of oneself
自高自大	to think of oneself as terrific (idiom); arrogant
自鳴得意	to think highly of oneself
自鳴鐘	chiming clock
自黑	(slang) to self-deprecate; to make fun of oneself
臬	guidepost; rule; standard
臬臺	provincial judge (in imperial China)
臭	stench; smelly; to smell (bad)
臭不可聞	(idiom) to stink to high heaven
臭名昭彰	notorious for his misdeeds (idiom); infamous
臭名昭著	notorious; infamous; egregious (bandits)
臭名遠揚	stinking reputation; notorious far and wide
臭味	bad smell; foul odor
臭味相投	to share vile habits; partners in notoriety; birds of a feather
臭子兒	dead bullet (one that does not fire); a bad move (in a game of chess)
臭屁	(coll.) self-important; puffed up
臭屁蟲	stinkbug
臭彈	dead bomb (i.e. not exploding on impact)
臭架子	stinking pretension; to give oneself airs and offend others
臭棋	blunder (in chess)
臭氣	stench
臭氣沖天	(idiom) to stink to high heaven
臭氣熏天	overwhelming stench (idiom)
臭氧	ozone (O₃)
臭氧層	ozone layer
臭烘烘	stinking
臭燻燻	stinking
臭皮囊	this mortal flesh
臭粉	baking ammonia (ammonium bicarbonate)
臭罵	tongue-lashing; to chew out
臭美	greatly pleased with oneself; vain; conceited (used as an insult or teasingly)
臭老九	stinking intellectual (contemptuous term for educated people during the Cultural Revolution)
臭臉	sour face; scowling face
臭臭	(baby talk) poop; poo
臭臭鍋	hot pot containing stinky tofu and other ingredients (Taiwanese dish)
臭蓋	to drivel (Tw)
臭蟲	bedbug (Cimex lectularius); tick
臭豆腐	stinky tofu; strong-smelling preserved beancurd
臭貨	low-quality goods; scumbag; bitch
臭跡	scent (smell of person or animal used for tracking)
臭錢	dirty money
臭鼬	skunk
臲	tottering; unsteady
至	to arrive; most; to
至上	supreme; paramount; above all else
至交	best friend
至人	fully realized human being; sage; saint
至今	so far; to this day; until now
至友	best friend; closest friend
至多	up to the maximum; upper limit; at most
至好	best friend
至始至終	from start to finish
至寶	most valuable treasure; most precious asset
至尊	the most honorable; the most respected; supreme
至少	at least; (to say the) least
至德	splendid virtue; majestic moral character; great kindness
至愛	most beloved
至於	as for; as to; to go so far as to
至極	extremely
至此	up until now; so far
至理名言	wise saying; words of wisdom
至當	most suitable; extremely appropriate
至若	as for
至親	next of kin; closely related
至誠	sincere
至遲	at the latest
至關重要	extremely important; vital; crucial
至高	paramount; supremacy
至高無上	supreme; paramount; unsurpassed
至高統治權	supreme power; sovereignty
致	(literary) to send; to transmit; to convey
致仕	to retire from a government post (old)
致以	to express; to present; to extend
致使	to cause; to result in
致信	to send a letter to
致冷劑	refrigerant
致函	to send a letter
致力	to devote oneself to; to work toward (often followed by 於|于[yu2])
致力於	to devote oneself to; to work toward
致命	fatal; mortal; deadly
致命傷	mortal wound; (fig.) fatal weakness; Achilles' heel
致哀	to express grief; to mourn
致富	to become rich
致幻劑	hallucinogen
致意	to send one's greetings; to send one's best regards
致敬	to salute; to pay one's respects to; to pay tribute to
致歉	to apologize; to express regret
致死	to cause death; to be lethal; to be deadly
致死劑量	lethal dose
致死性	lethal; fatal
致死性毒劑	lethal agent
致死量	lethal dose
致殘	to be crippled (in an accident etc)
致畸	producing abnormality; leading to malformation; teratogenic
致病	to cause disease; to be pathogenic
致病性	pathogenic; pathogenicity
致病菌	pathogenic bacteria
致癌	to cause cancer; carcinogenic
致癌物	carcinogen
致癌物質	carcinogen; cancer causing substance
致謝	expression of gratitude; to give thanks; a thank-you note
致賀	to congratulate
致辭	to express in words or writing
致電	to phone; to telegram
致鬱	(slang) depressing
臺	platform; stage; terrace
臺上	on stage
臺上一分鐘，臺下十年功	ten years of practice for one minute on the stage (idiom)
臺中	Taichung, city in central Taiwan
臺中市	Taichung, a city in central Taiwan
臺倭	(derogatory for Taiwanese) Jap lover
臺北	Taipei, capital of Taiwan
臺北市	Taibei or Taipei, capital of Taiwan
臺北縣	Taipei County in north Taiwan (now renamed 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4])
臺南市	Tainan city in Tainan county 臺南縣|台南县[Tai2 nan2 xian4], Taiwan
臺南府	Tainan Prefecture, a prefecture of Taiwan under Qing rule
臺地	tableland; mesa
臺基	stylobate (architecture)
臺大	abbr. for 臺灣大學|台湾大学[Tai2 wan1 Da4 xue2]
臺媒	Taiwanese news media
臺子	platform; stand
臺巴子	(derog.) Taiwanese; person from Taiwan
臺式機	desktop computer
臺扇	table fan; desk fan
臺斤	Taiwan catty (weight equal to 0.6 kg)
臺本	script (of a play, movie, or television program)
臺東縣	Taitung County in southeast Taiwan
臺柱	pillar; mainstay; star performer
臺海	abbr. for 台灣海峽|台湾海峡, Taiwan Strait
臺灣	Taiwan
臺灣土狗	Formosan mountain dog, a breed native to Taiwan
臺灣大學	National Taiwan University; abbr. to 臺大|台大[Tai2 Da4]
臺灣山鷓鴣	(bird species of China) Taiwan partridge (Arborophila crudigularis)
臺灣島	Taiwan Island
臺灣戴菊	(bird species of China) flamecrest (Regulus goodfellowi)
臺灣擬啄木鳥	(bird species of China) Taiwan barbet (Psilopogon nuchalis)
臺灣斑翅鶥	(bird species of China) Taiwan barwing (Actinodura morrisoniana)
臺灣斑胸鉤嘴鶥	(bird species of China) black-necklaced scimitar babbler (Erythrogenys erythrocnemis)
臺灣林鴝	(bird species of China) collared bush robin (Tarsiger johnstoniae)
臺灣棕噪鶥	(bird species of China) rusty laughingthrush (Pterorhinus poecilorhynchus)
臺灣棕頸鉤嘴鶥	(bird species of China) Taiwan scimitar babbler (Pomatorhinus musicus)
臺灣畫眉	(bird species of China) Taiwan hwamei (Garrulax taewanus)
臺灣白喉噪鶥	(bird species of China) rufous-crowned laughingthrush (Pterorhinus ruficeps)
臺灣省	Taiwan province (PRC term)
臺灣短翅鶯	(bird species of China) Taiwan bush warbler (Locustella alishanensis)
臺灣紫嘯鶇	(bird species of China) Taiwan whistling thrush (Myophonus insularis)
臺灣藍鵲	(bird species of China) Taiwan blue magpie (Urocissa caerulea)
臺灣酒紅朱雀	(bird species of China) Taiwan rosefinch (Carpodacus formosanus)
臺灣雀鶥	(bird species of China) grey-cheeked fulvetta (Alcippe morrisonia)
臺灣鵯	(bird species of China) Styan's bulbul; Taiwan bulbul (Pycnonotus taivanus)
臺灣鷦鶥	(bird species of China) Taiwan cupwing; Taiwan wren-babbler (Pnoepyga formosana)
臺灣黃山雀	(bird species of China) yellow tit (Machlolophus holsti)
臺甫	(polite) courtesy name
臺盆	washbasin
臺羅字	Tai-lo, romanization system for Taiwanese Hokkien (abbr. for 臺灣閩南語羅馬字拼音方案|台湾闽南语罗马字拼音方案[Tai2 wan1 Min3 nan2 yu3 Luo2 ma3 zi4 Pin1 yin1 Fang1 an4])
臺胞	Taiwan compatriot
臺虎鉗	bench vise
臺蛙	(derog.) Taiwanese; a person from Taiwan (implying naivete or ignorance regarding geopolitical and economic realities) (cf. 井底之蛙[jing3 di3 zhi1 wa1] sb with a narrow view of the world)
臺視	abbr. for 臺灣電視公司|台湾电视公司, Taiwan Television (TTV)
臺詞	an actor's lines; dialogue; Taiwanese word
臺諜	Taiwan spy
臺階	steps; flight of steps; step (over obstacle)
臺風	stage presence, poise
臻	to arrive; to reach (esp. perfection); utmost
臻化境	to reach the pinnacle (of artistic skill)
臻於完善	to attain perfection (idiom)
臻於郅治	to attain a state of perfect governance (idiom)
臻至	to reach
臼	mortar
臼齒	molar tooth
臽	(archaic) pit; hole in the ground
臾	a moment; little while
臾須	short period of time; a moment
臿	to separate the grain from the husk
舀	to ladle out; to scoop up
舀勺	scoop; dipper
舀子	ladle; scoop
舀水	to ladle water; to scoop up water
舀湯	to ladle out soup
舁	to lift; to raise
舂	to pound (grain etc) with a mortar and pestle
舂米	to husk rice with a mortar and pestle
舄	shoe; slipper
舅	maternal uncle
舅公	grandmother's brother
舅哥	(coll.) wife's older brother
舅婆	grandmother's brother's wife
舅媽	(coll.) aunt; maternal uncle's wife
舅嫂	wife's brother's wife, sister-in-law
舅子	(coll.) wife's brother
舅母	wife of mother's brother; aunt; maternal uncle's wife
舅父	mother's brother; maternal uncle
舅爺	father's maternal uncle; granduncle
舅舅	mother's brother; maternal uncle (informal)
與	(formal) and; together with (linking parallel nouns, verbs, or phrases)
與世俯仰	to swim with the tide (idiom)
與世永別	to die
與世無爭	(idiom) to stand aloof from worldly affairs
與世長辭	to die; to depart from the world forever
與世隔絕	to be cut off from the rest of the world (idiom)
與人方便，自己方便	Help others, and others may help you (idiom).
與人為善	to be of service to others; to help others; benevolent
與全世界為敵	(idiom) to fight the whole world
與共	to experience together with sb
與其	rather than... (used in expressions of the form 與其|与其[yu3 qi2] + {verb1} + 不如[bu4 ru2] + {verb2} "rather than {verb1}, better to {verb2}")
與否	whether or not (at the end of a phrase)
與日俱增	to increase steadily; to grow with each passing day
與日俱進	every day sees new developments (idiom); to make constant progress
與日同輝	to become more glorious with each passing day (idiom)
與時俱進	abreast of modern developments; to keep up with the times; progressive
與時消息	variable with the times; transient; impermanent
與時間賽跑	to race against time
與會	to participate in a meeting
與格	dative case
與此同時	at the same time; meanwhile
與狐謀皮	(idiom) to ask sb to act contrary to their own interests (original form of the expression 與虎謀皮|与虎谋皮[yu3 hu3 mou2 pi2])
與生俱來	inherent; innate
與眾不同	(idiom) to stand out from the crowd; distinctive; different from the rest
與虎謀皮	(lit.) to negotiate with a tiger for its pelt (idiom); (fig.) to ask sb to act contrary to their own interests
與門	AND gate (electronics)
興	feeling or desire to do sth; interest in sth; excitement
興中會	Revive China Society, founded by Dr Sun Yat-sen 孫中山|孙中山 in 1894 in Honolulu
興亡	to flourish and decay; rise and fall
興仁市	Xingren, a county-level city in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
興兵	to send troops
興凱刺鰟鮍	Acanthorhodeus chankaensis (small carp)
興利除弊	to promote what is useful and get rid of what is harmful (idiom)
興化市	Xinghua, a county-level city in Taizhou City 泰州市[Tai4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
興味	interest; taste
興和縣	Xinghe, a county in Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
興國	to invigorate the country
興國縣	Xingguo, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
興城市	Xingcheng, a county-level city in Huludao City 葫蘆島市|葫芦岛市[Hu2 lu2 dao3 Shi4], Liaoning
興奮	excited; excitement; (physiology) excitation
興奮劑	stimulant; doping (in athletics)
興奮高潮	peak of excitement; orgasm
興妖作怪	lit. to summon demons to create havoc (idiom)
興學	to establish schools; to raise the standard of education
興安區	Xing'an, a district of Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
興安盟	Hinggan, league in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
興安縣	Xing'an, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
興安運河	another name for Lingqu 靈渠|灵渠[Ling2 qu2], canal in Xing'an county 興安|兴安[Xing1 an1], Guangxi
興寧區	Xingning, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
興寧市	Xingning, a county-level city in Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
興山區	Xingshan, a district of Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
興山縣	Xingshan, a county in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
興師	to dispatch troops; to send an army; to mobilize forces
興師動眾	to muster large forces
興師問罪	to send punitive forces against; (fig.) to criticize violently
興平市	Xingping, a county-level city in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
興建	to build; to construct
興慶區	Xingqing, a district of Yinchuan City 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4], Ningxia
興文縣	Xingwen, a county in Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
興旺	prosperous; thriving; to prosper
興旺發達	prosperous and developing; flourishing
興替	rise and fall
興會	sudden inspiration; flash of insight; brainwave
興業縣	Xingye, a county in Yulin City 玉林市[Yu4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
興業銀行	Société Générale
興榮	to flourish; to prosper
興沖沖	full of joy and expectations; animatedly
興海縣	Xinghai, a county in Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海南藏族自治州[Hai3 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
興滅繼絕	lit. to restore the state and revive old families (idiom)
興盛	to flourish; to thrive
興盡	to have lost interest; to have had enough
興縣	Xing County or Xingxian, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
興義市	Xingyi, a county-level city in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
興致	mood; spirits; interest
興致勃勃	to become exhilarated (idiom); in high spirits; full of zest
興衰	prosperity and decline (of a kingdom); rise and fall
興許	(coll.) perhaps
興賓區	Xingbin, a district of Laibin City 來賓市|来宾市[Lai2 bin1 Shi4], Guangxi
興起	to rise; to spring up; to burgeon
興趣	interest (desire to know about sth)
興辦	to begin; to set in motion
興都庫什	the Hindu Kush (mountain range)
興隆	prosperous; thriving; flourishing
興隆縣	Xinglong, a county in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
興隆臺區	Xinglongtai, a district of Panjin City 盤錦市|盘锦市[Pan2 jin3 Shi4], Liaoning
興頭	keen interest; concentrated attention
興風作浪	to incite trouble; to stir up havoc
興高采烈	happy and excited (idiom); in high spirits; in great delight
舉	to lift; to hold up; to cite
舉一反三	to raise one and infer three
舉不勝舉	too numerous to list (idiom); innumerable
舉世	throughout the world; world ranking (e.g. first)
舉世無雙	unrivaled (idiom); world number one; unique; unequaled
舉世矚目	to receive worldwide attention
舉世聞名	world-famous (idiom)
舉人	graduate; successful candidate in the imperial provincial examination
舉例	to give an example
舉例來說	for example
舉債	to raise a loan; to borrow money
舉兵	(literary) to raise an army; to dispatch troops
舉凡	such things as ...; examples including ... (etc); without exception
舉動	act; action; activity
舉國	the entire country
舉國上下	the entire nation
舉報	to report (malefactors to the police); to denounce
舉報者	informer; snitch
舉家	the whole family
舉手	to raise a hand; to put up one's hand (as signal)
舉手之勞	(lit.) the exertion of lifting one's hand (idiom)
舉手投足	one's every movement (idiom); comportment; gestures
舉措	move; act; measure
舉杯	to toast sb (with wine etc); to drink a toast
舉架	(dialect) height of a house
舉案齊眉	lit. to lift the tray to eyebrow level (idiom); mutual respect in a marriage
舉棋不定	to hesitate over what move to make (idiom); to waver; to shilly-shally
舉業	preparatory literary studies for imperial examination
舉止	bearing; manner; mien
舉步	(literary) to move forward
舉步維艱	to make progress only with great difficulty (idiom)
舉火	(literary) to light a fire
舉用	to select the best (for a job)
舉發	to expose (e.g., wrongdoing); to accuse (in court); to impeach
舉目	to look; to raise one's eyes
舉目無親	to look up and see no-one familiar (idiom); not having anyone to rely on
舉薦	to recommend
舉行	to hold (a meeting, ceremony etc)
舉證	to offer evidence
舉賢良對策	Treatise 134 BC by Han dynasty philosopher Dong Zhongshu 董仲舒
舉起	to heave; to lift; to raise up
舉足輕重	to play a critical role (idiom); influential
舉辦	to conduct; to hold (an event)
舉重	to lift weights; weight-lifting (sports)
舉鐵	(coll.) to pump iron
舉隅法	synecdoche
舊	old; opposite: new 新; former
舊中國	old China (pre-1949 China)
舊事	old affair; former matter
舊五代史	History of the Five Dynasties (between Tang and Song), eighteenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Xue Juzheng 薛居正[Xue1 Ju1 zheng4] in 974 during Northern Song 北宋[Bei3 Song4], 150 scrolls
舊交	old friend; former acquaintance
舊例	old rules; example from the past; former practices
舊俗	former custom; old ways
舊制	old system; weights and measures of former times
舊前	in the past; formerly
舊友	old friend
舊名	former name
舊唐書	History of the Early Tang Dynasty, sixteenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Liu Xu 劉昫|刘昫[Liu2 Xu4] in 945 during Later Jin 後晉|后晋[Hou4 Jin4] of the Five Dynasties, 200 scrolls
舊國	old capital
舊地	once familiar places; former haunts
舊地重遊	(idiom) to return to a place after a long time away
舊址	former site; old location
舊夢	old dreams
舊大陸	the Old World
舊好	old friendship
舊字體	kyujitai, traditional Japanese character used before 1946
舊學	old learning
舊宅	former residence
舊家	notable former families
舊居	old residence; former home
舊年	last year
舊式	old style
舊怨	old grievance; former complaint
舊情	old affection
舊惡	old wrong; past grievance; wickedness of former times
舊愁新恨	old worries with new hatred added (idiom); afflicted by problems old and new
舊愛	ex; former lover
舊態	old posture; former situation
舊損	old and damaged; in disrepair
舊故	old friend; former acquaintance
舊教	the Old Religion (i.e. Roman Catholicism) 天主教[Tian1 zhu3 jiao4], as opposed to Protestantism 新教[Xin1 jiao4]
舊日	former times; olden days
舊時	in former times; the olden days
舊時代	former times; the olden days
舊景重現	scenes of the past reappear; evocation of the past
舊曆	old calendar; the Chinese lunar calendar; same as 農曆|农历[nong2 li4]
舊曆年	lunar New Year
舊書	second-hand book; old book; ancient book
舊案	old court case; long-standing legal dispute
舊業	one's old profession; trade of one's forebears
舊民主主義革命	old democratic revolution
舊派	old school; conservative faction
舊熱帶界	(biogeography) the Afrotropical realm
舊版	old version
舊物	old property (esp. inherited from former generation); former territory
舊瓶裝新酒	lit. new wine in old bottles; fig. new concepts in an old framework
舊疾	old illness; former affliction
舊病	old illness; former affliction
舊病復發	old illness recurs (idiom); a relapse; fig. to repeat an old error
舊的不去，新的不來	lit. If the old doesn't go, the new will not come.
舊皇曆	old calendar; out-of-date customs
舊知	old acquaintance; former friend
舊石器時代	Paleolithic Era
舊稱	old term; old way of referring to sth
舊約	former agreement; former contract
舊約全書	Old Testament
舊習	old habit; former custom
舊聞	outdated news; old anecdote; stories passed on from former times
舊觀	former appearance; what it used to look like
舊詩	old verse; poetry in the old style
舊調子	old tune; fig. conservative opinion; the same old stuff
舊調重彈	replaying the same old tunes (idiom); conservative, unoriginal and discredited
舊識	former acquaintance; old friend
舊貌	old look; former appearance
舊貨	second-hand goods; used items for sale
舊貨市場	sale of second-hand goods; flea market
舊貫	old system; former rules
舊賬	lit. old account; old debt; fig. old scores to settle
舊跡	old traces; signs from the past
舊車市場	second-hand car market; used bike market
舊遊	place one has previously visited; old haunts
舊部	one's former subordinates
舊都	old capital
舊金山	San Francisco, California
舊雨	old friends
舊體	old form of writing; piece in the old style
舊體詩	poetry in the old style
舋	quarrel; dispute; a blood sacrifice (arch.)
舌	used in 喇舌[la3 ji1] to transcribe the Taiwanese word for "tongue"
舌下	sublingual; hypoglossal
舌下含服	sublingual administration (medicine)
舌下片	sublingual tablet (medicine)
舌下腺	sublingual gland; saliva gland under tongue
舌乳頭	lingual papillae; taste buds
舌吻	to French kiss; French kiss
舌尖	tip of tongue; apical
舌尖前音	alveolar
舌尖後音	retroflex sound (e.g. in Mandarin zh, ch, sh, r)
舌尖音	apical consonant (produced with the tip of the tongue, i.e. d or t)
舌尖顫音	alveolar trill (e.g. Russian r sound)
舌戰	verbal sparring; duel of words
舌根	back of tongue; tongue root; dorsal
舌燦蓮花	(idiom) eloquent; entertaining in one's speech
舌苔	(TCM) coating on the tongue (examined for the purpose of diagnosis)
舌釘	tongue ring; tongue piercing
舌面	blade of tongue; laminal
舌音	coronal consonants of Middle Chinese
舌頭	tongue
舍	(bound form) residence; house
舍下	my humble home
舍人	ancient office title; rich and important person
舍利	(Buddhism) relic found in the cremated ashes of Buddhists (from Sanskrit "śarīra")
舍利塔	(Buddhism) stupa, mound-shaped monument containing Buddhist relics such as śarīra 舍利[she4 li4]
舍友	dormitory roommate; dormmate
舍妹	(humble) my younger sister
舍弟	(humble) my younger brother
舐	to lick; to lap (up)
舐犢之愛	the love of a cow licking her calf (idiom); parental love
舐犢情深	lit. the cow licking its calf fondly (idiom)
舒	to stretch; to unfold; to relax
舒一口氣	to heave a sigh of relief
舒喘靈	albuterol, kind of chemical used in treating asthma
舒坦	comfortable; at ease
舒城縣	Shucheng, a county in Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
舒夢蘭	Shu Menglan (1759-1835), Qin dynasty writer, poet and editor of Anthology of ci poems tunes 白香詞譜|白香词谱
舒展	to roll out; to extend; to smooth out
舒張	to relax and expand; (physiology) diastole
舒張壓	diastolic blood pressure
舒心	comfortable; happy
舒慶春	Shu Qingchun (1899-1966), the real name of author Lao She 老舍[Lao3 She3]
舒暢	happy; entirely free from worry
舒曼	Schumann (name); Robert Schumann (1810-1856), romantic composer
舒服	comfortable; feeling well
舒氣	to heave a sigh of relief; to get one's breath back
舒淇	Shu Qi (1976-), Taiwanese actress
舒眠	to sleep well; to get restful sleep; (medicine) to be anesthetized
舒眠鍵	sleep mode button (on the remote control of an air conditioner)
舒緩	to ease (tension); to relax; to cause sth to relax
舒肥法	(Tw) (loanword) sous vide
舒膚佳	Safeguard (brand)
舒舒服服	comfortable; with ease
舒芙蕾	(loanword) soufflé
舒蘭市	Shulan, a county-level city in Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
舒適	cozy; snug
舒適區	comfort zone
舒適圈	comfort zone
舒適音	comfortable voice (well within one's range of pitch)
舒馬赫	Michael Schumacher (1969-), former German racing driver
舔	to lick; to lap
舔吮	to lick and suck
舔屁股	to kiss sb's ass; to brown-nose
舔狗	(neologism, attested by 2018) (slang) simp; person who resorts to cringeworthy fawning behavior in pursuing sb who does not requite their affections
舔肛	anilingus; rimming
舔舐	to lick; to lap
舔陰	to perform cunnilingus
舖	store
舛	mistaken; erroneous; contradictory
舛誤	error; mistake
舜	Shun (c. 23rd century BC), mythical sage and leader
舜帝陵	several tombs of legendary Emperor Shun, one in Ningyuan county 寧遠縣|宁远县[Ning2 yuan3 xian4] in southwest Hunan, another Yuncheng prefecture 運城|运城[Yun4 cheng2] Shanxi
舜日堯天	sage Emperors Shun and Yao rule every day (idiom); all for the best in the best of all possible worlds
舜日堯年	sage Emperors Shun and Yao rule every day (idiom); all for the best in the best of all possible worlds
舞	to dance; to wield; to brandish
舞伴	dancing partner
舞劇	dance drama; ballet
舞劍	to perform a sword-dance
舞動	to move as in a dance; to wave (some implement); to flourish
舞場	dance hall
舞妓	(loanword) maiko; apprentice geisha
舞姿	dancer's posture and movement
舞孃	female dancer
舞廳	dance hall; ballroom
舞廳舞	ballroom dancing
舞弄	to wave; to brandish
舞弊	to engage in fraud
舞技	dancing skill
舞文弄墨	(idiom) to display one's facility with words
舞曲	dance music
舞會	dance; ball; party
舞會舞	party dancing
舞步	dance steps
舞水端里	Musudan-ri, North Korean rocket launch site in North Hamgyeong Province 咸鏡北道|咸镜北道[Xian2 jing4 bei3 dao4]
舞池	dance floor
舞獅	lion dance (traditional Chinese dance form)
舞者	dancer
舞臺	(lit. and fig.) stage; arena
舞臺劇	stage play
舞蹈	dance (performance art); dancing
舞蹈家	dancer
舞鋼市	Wugang, a county-level city in Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
舞陽縣	Wuyang, a county in Luohe City 漯河市[Luo4 he2 Shi4], Henan
舞鞋	dance shoes
舞龍	dragon dance
舟	boat
舟山市	Zhoushan, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
舟山群島	Zhoushan Island
舟曲縣	Zhouqu, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
舟橋	pontoon bridge; floating bridge
舟船	boat
舟車勞頓	travel-worn
舠	kayak
舡	boat; ship
舢	sampan
舢板	sampan; also written 舢舨
舨	sampan
航	boat; ship; craft
航司	airline (abbr. for 航空公司[hang2 kong1 gong1 si1])
航向	course; direction (a ship or plane is heading in)
航圖	chart
航天	space flight
航天中心	space center
航天員	astronaut
航天器	spacecraft
航天局	space agency
航天飛機	space shuttle
航展	air show
航廈	(Tw) airport terminal
航徽	airline emblem; travel company seal
航拍	aerial photography (video or still)
航標	buoy; channel marker; signal light
航標燈	lighted buoy; channel marking light; signal light
航模	model aircraft; model plane
航權	air rights
航次	air or sea voyage (seen as an individual, countable item); flight
航段	leg of air or sea voyage
航母	aircraft carrier (abbr. for 航空母艦|航空母舰[hang2 kong1 mu3 jian4])
航海	to sail the seas; maritime navigation; voyage
航海家	mariner; seafarer
航海年表	nautical ephemeris
航海者	navigator
航班	(scheduled) flight; (scheduled) sailing
航班表	flight schedule
航程	flight; voyage; distance traveled; range (of an airplane or ship)
航空	aviation
航空事業	aviation industry
航空信	airmail letter
航空公司	airline
航空器	aircraft
航空學	aviation science
航空局	aviation agency
航空業	aviation industry
航空母艦	aircraft carrier (CL:艘[sou1]); (fig.) juggernaut
航空母艦戰鬥群	carrier-based vanguard group (CBVG)
航空港	airfield; aerodrome
航空站	air terminal
航空線	air route; airway
航空自衛隊	air self-defense force
航空航天局	air and space agency
航空術	aeronautics
航空運單	Air Waybill (AWB)
航空郵件	airmail
航空郵簡	aerogram
航站	airport; (shipping) port
航站樓	airport terminal
航線	air or shipping route
航船	ship (e.g. providing regular passenger service)
航艦	(Tw) aircraft carrier (abbr. for 航空母艦|航空母舰[hang2 kong1 mu3 jian4])
航行	to sail; to fly; to navigate
航跡	wake (of ship); flight path
航路	navigation route (esp. shipping route or air route)
航速	speed (of ship or plane)
航運	shipping; transport
航道	waterway; ship channel
航郵	air mail
舫	2 boats lashed together; large boat
般	used in 般若[bo1 re3]
般樂	to play; to amuse oneself
般若	(Buddhism) wisdom; insight into the true nature of reality (from Sanskrit prajñā)
般若波羅密	prajña paramita (Sanskrit: supreme wisdom - beginning of the Heart Sutra)
般若波羅密多心經	the Heart Sutra
般遊	to amuse oneself
般配	to be well matched; to suit
般雀比拉多	Pontius Pilate (in the Biblical passion story)
舭	bilge
舲	(literary) small boat with a windowed cabin
舳	poopdeck; stern of boat
舴	used in 舴艋[ze2 meng3]
舴艋	(literary) small boat
舵	helm; rudder
舵手	helmsman
舵把	tiller of a boat
舵旁	helm (of a ship)
舶	ship
舶來品	(old) imported goods; foreign goods
舷	side of a ship or an aircraft
舷梯	gangway; ramp (to board a ship or plane)
舷窗	porthole; scuttle
舸	barge
船	boat; vessel; ship
船上交貨	Free On Board (FOB) (transportation)
船主	ship's captain; owner of ship
船位	ship's position
船到橋門自會直	lit. when the ship arrives at the bridge we can deal with the problem
船到橋頭自然直	lit. when the boat reaches the bridge, it will pass underneath without trouble (proverb)
船到江心，補漏遲	It's too late to plug the leak once ship is in the middle of the river. (idiom)
船到碼頭，車到站	The ship has docked, the carriage has reached the station.
船員	sailor; crew member
船埠	wharf; quay
船塢	dock; shipyard
船夫	boatman
船家	person who lives and makes a living on a boat; boatman; boat dweller
船尾	back end of a ship; aft
船尾座	Puppis (constellation)
船山區	Chuanshan, a district of Suining City 遂寧市|遂宁市[Sui4 ning2 Shi4], Sichuan
船工	boatman; boat builder
船帆	sail
船帆座	Vela (constellation)
船幫	side of boat or ship; gunwale
船底座	Carina (constellation)
船廠	shipyard; shipbuilder's yard
船戶	boatman; boat dweller
船政大臣	Minister of Navy during Qing times
船政學堂	Fuzhou Naval College, a.k.a. Foochow Naval Dockyard School, set up in 1866 by the Qing dynasty
船方	ship (commerce)
船東	ship owner
船梯	ship's ladder
船槳	oar
船模	model ship; model boat
船殼	hull (of a ship)
船民	people who live and make a living on boats
船營區	Chuanying, a district of Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
船票	ship ticket
船篙	pole used for punting a boat
船篷	ship's sail
船籍	ship's registry
船籍港	ship's port of registry
船纜	ship's hawser; rigging
船老大	coxswain; steersman; boatswain (bo'sun)
船舵	rudder; helm of a ship
船舶	shipping; boats
船舷	the sides of a ship
船艄	stern of boat
船艙	hold of ship
船艦	navy vessel; (coast guard) patrol boat
船襪	ankle socks; invisible socks
船貨	cargo
船身	hull; body of a ship
船運	sea freight; shipping
船運業	shipping
船長	captain (of a boat); skipper
船閘	navigation lock
船隊	fleet (of ships)
船隻	ship; boat; vessel
船頭	the bow or prow of a ship
船首	ship's bow
船體	hull; body of a ship
舺	boat; Taiwan pr. [jia3]
舾	used in 舾裝|舾装[xi1 zhuang1]
舾裝	ship equipment; to outfit a ship
艄	stern of boat
艄公	helmsman; boatman
艅	used in 艅艎[yu2 huang2]
艅艎	(literary) a type of warship used in the Spring and Autumn period; magnificent large boat
艇	(bound form) boat; craft (esp. small or naval)
艇甲板	boat deck (upper deck on which lifeboats are stored)
艉	aft
艋	used in 舴艋[ze2 meng3]
艋舺	Mengjia (also written Monga, Monka or Bangka), the pre-Japanese-era name for Wanhua 萬華|万华[Wan4 hua2], the oldest district of Taipei
艎	fast ship
艏	bow of a ship
艑	skiff
艕	two boats fastened side by side
艖	raft; boat
艗	bow of a Chinese boat
艘	classifier for ships; Taiwan pr. [sao1]
艙	cabin; the hold of a ship or airplane
艙位	shipping space; cabin berth; cabin seat
艙外活動	extravehicular activity (outside space vehicle); EVA
艙房	cabin (of an airplane or ship)
艚	seagoing junk
艜	a long narrow vessel with two masts
艟	used in 艨艟[meng2 chong1]; Taiwan pr. [tong2]
艤	to moor a boat to the bank
艦	warship
艦島	island (the superstructure of an aircraft carrier, on the starboard side of the deck)
艦橋	bridge (of a naval ship)
艦船	warship
艦艇	warship; naval vessel
艦載	shipboard (radar system etc); ship-based; carrier-based (aircraft)
艦載機	carrier-based aircraft
艦長	commander; captain (of a warship)
艦隊	fleet
艦隻	warship
艦首	bow of a warship
艨	used in 艨衝|艨冲[meng2 chong1] and 艨艟[meng2 chong1]
艨艟	ancient leatherclad warship
艩	tholepin
艫	bow of ship
艬	large ship
艭	boat
艮	one of the Eight Trigrams 八卦[ba1 gua4], symbolizing mountain; ☶
良	good; very; very much
良久	a good while; a long time
良人	husband (arch.)
良伴	good companion
良友	good friend; companion
良善	good
良圖	good plan; right strategy
良多	considerably; much; quite a bit
良好	good; favorable; well
良宵美景	fine evening, beautiful scenery (idiom)
良家	respectable family; decent family
良家婦女	woman from a respectable family
良工心苦	expert craft from hard practice (idiom); hard-won skill
良師益友	good teacher and helpful friend (idiom); mentor
良心	conscience
良心喂狗	to have fed one's conscience to the dogs (idiom); devoid of conscience
良心未泯	not totally heartless; still having a shred of conscience
良心犯	prisoner of conscience
良心發現	(idiom) to develop a conscience about sth after previously being unconcerned (usu. resulting in feeling remorse or making amends)
良性	positive (in its effect); leading to good consequences; virtuous
良性循環	virtuous cycle (i.e. positive feedback loop)
良性腫瘤	benign tumor
良慶區	Liangqing, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
良方	good medicine; effective prescription; fig. good plan
良朋益友	virtuous companions and worthy friends
良材	good timber; sound material; fig. able person
良桐	good Chinese wood-oil tree (Aleurites cordata)
良機	a good chance; a golden opportunity
良民	good people; ordinary people (i.e. not the lowest class)
良渚	Liangzhu (c. 3400-2250 BC), neolithic culture of Changjiang delta
良渚文化	Liangzhu (c. 3400-2250 BC), neolithic culture of Changjiang delta
良港	good harbor
良率	yield rate (in manufacturing)
良田	good agricultural land; fertile land
良知	innate sense of right and wrong; conscience; bosom friend
良知良能	instinctive understanding, esp. of ethical issues (idiom); untrained, but with an inborn sense of right and wrong
良禽擇木	a fine bird chooses a tree to nest in (proverb)
良禽擇木而棲	a fine bird chooses a tree to nest in (proverb)
良種	improved type; good breed; pedigree
良種繁育	stock breeding (biology)
良策	good plan; good idea
良緣	good karma; opportune connection with marriage partner
良苦用心	to ponder earnestly; to give a lot of thought to sth
良莠不齊	good and bad people intermingled
良藥	good medicine; panacea; fig. a good solution
良藥苦口	good medicine tastes bitter (idiom); fig. frank criticism is hard to swallow
良辰吉日	fine time, lucky day (idiom); fig. good opportunity
良辰美景	fine time, beautiful scenery (idiom); everything lovely
良鄉	Liangxiang town in Beijing municipality
良醫	good doctor; skilled doctor
良馬	good horse
艱	difficult; hard; hardship
艱巨性	arduousness; formidability; difficulty
艱深	abstruse; complicated
艱深晦澀	abstruse and unfathomable (idiom)
艱苦	difficult; hard; arduous
艱苦奮鬥	to struggle arduously
艱苦樸素	leading a plain, hardworking life (idiom)
艱辛	hardships; arduous; difficult
艱鉅	(of a task, mission or responsibility) extremely difficult; challenging; demanding
艱險	difficult and dangerous; hardships and perils
艱難	difficult; arduous; hard
艱難險阻	untold dangers and difficulties (idiom)
色	(coll.) color; used in 色子[shai3 zi5]
色丁	(loanword) satin (textile)
色令智昏	to lose one's head over lust; sex-crazy (idiom)
色光	colored light
色厲內荏	lit. show strength while weak inside (idiom); appearing fierce while cowardly at heart
色友	photography enthusiast; friend with benefits
色域	color gamut
色夷	smiling genially; to beam
色子	dice (used in gambling)
色字頭上一把刀	lit. there is a knife above the character for lust
色尼區	Seni, a district of Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
色差	difference in color; color variation
色度	saturation (color theory)
色弱	partial color blindness; color weakness
色彩	tint; coloring; coloration; (fig.) flavor; character
色情	pornography; sex
色情作品	porn; pornographic material
色情小說	pornographic novel; dirty book
色情業	porn business
色情片	pornographic film
色情狂	mad about sex; nymphomania
色慾	sexual desire; lust
色拉	(loanword) salad
色拉寺	Sera monastery near Lhasa, Tibet
色拉油	salad oil
色拉醬	salad dressing
色斑	stain; colored patch; freckle
色氨酸	tryptophan (Trp), an essential amino acid
色澤	color and luster
色狼	lecher; pervert; wolf
色球	chromosphere
色球層	chromosphere
色盅	dice cup
色目	Semu
色盲	color-blind; color blindness
色相	coloration; hue; sex
色相環	color wheel
色瞇瞇	lustful; lecherous
色素	pigment
色素體	plastid (organelle in plant cell)
色胚	(slang) pervert; lecher
色胺酸	(Tw) tryptophan
色膽	boldness in pursuing one's sexual urges
色膽包天	outrageously bold in one's lust; debauched (idiom)
色色迷迷	crazy about sex; lecherous; horny
色荒	wallowing in lust
色號	shade (of lipstick etc); color option
色覺	color vision
色誘	to seduce; to lead into sex
色調	hue; tone
色輪	color wheel
色迷	crazy about sex; lecherous; horny
色達縣	Sêrtar, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
色酒	colored wine (made from grapes or other fruit, as opposed to a rice wine etc)
色鍵	chroma key; bluescreen; greenscreen (video editing)
色長	head of a division of the music academy of the imperial court
色香味俱全	to smell, look and taste great
色鬼	lecher; pervert
色魔	sex fiend; molester; sex attacker
艴	angry
艷冶	bewitching; beautiful
艷如桃李	lit. beautiful as peach and prune; fig. radiant beauty
艷情	romantic love; romance; erotic (novel etc)
艷照	nude picture
艷福	luck with women
艷紅色	crimson
艷羨	(literary) to admire; to envy
艷舞	erotic dance
艷色	beauty; glamor; voluptuousness
艷詩	erotic verse
艷遇	encounter with a beautiful woman; romance; affair
艷麗	gorgeous; garish and beautiful
艹	grass radical 草字頭兒|草字头儿[cao3 zi4 tou2 r5]
艻	used in 蘿艻|萝艻[luo2 le4]
艾	Chinese mugwort (Artemisia); moxa; used in transliteration
艾丁湖	Ayding Lake (Aydingkol) in Xinjiang
艾伯塔	Alberta province of Canada, capital Edmonton 埃德蒙頓|埃德蒙顿[Ai1 de2 meng2 dun4]
艾冬花	coltsfoot flower (used in TCM); Flos Farfarae
艾卷	moxa cigar; moxa roll (TCM)
艾哈邁德	Ahmed (name)
艾哈邁迪內賈德	Ahmadinejad or Ahmadinezhad (Persian name)
艾哈邁達巴德	Ahmedabad, largest city in west Indian state Gujarat 古吉拉特[Gu3 ji2 la1 te4]
艾塔	eta (Greek letter Η, η)
艾奇遜	Atchison or Acheson (name); Atchison city on Missouri in Kansas, USA
艾奧瓦	Iowa, US state
艾實	(TCM) fruit of Chinese mugwort (Artemisia argyi), aka fruit of argyi wormwood
艾彌爾	Emile (name)
艾德蒙頓	Edmonton, capital of Alberta, Canada
艾普西隆	epsilon (Greek letter Ε, ε)
艾曼塔	Emmentaler (cheese)
艾未未	Ai Weiwei (1957-), Chinese artist active in architecture, photography, film, as well as cultural criticism and political activism
艾格尼絲·史沫特萊	Agnes Smedley (1892-1950), US journalist who reported on China, esp. the communist side
艾條	moxa stick, moxa roll (TCM)
艾條溫和灸	gentle stick moxibustion (TCM)
艾條灸	stick moxibustion; poling (TCM)
艾條雀啄灸	"sparrow pecking" moxibustion technique (TCM)
艾森豪威爾	Dwight D. Eisenhower (1890-1969), US army general and politician, Supreme Allied Commander in Europe during World War II, US President 1953-1961
艾比湖	Aibi Lake (Ebinur) in Xinjiang
艾滋	(loanword) AIDS
艾滋病	(loanword) AIDS
艾滋病毒	human immune deficiency virus (HIV); the AIDS virus
艾滋病病毒	HIV (human immunodeficiency virus)
艾灸	moxibustion (TCM)
艾炭	carbonized mugwort leaf (TCM); Folium Artemisiae argyi carbonisatum
艾炷	moxa cone
艾炷灸	cone moxibustion (TCM)
艾爾伯塔	Alberta province of Canada, capital Edmonton 埃德蒙頓|埃德蒙顿[Ai1 de2 meng2 dun4]
艾爾米塔什	Ermitazh or Hermitage museum in St Peterburg
艾爾米塔奇	Ermitazh or Hermitage museum in St Peterburg
艾片	preparation obtained from sambong leaves, containing borneol (used in TCM)
艾特	(loanword) at sign; @
艾瑞巴蒂	(Internet slang) (loanword) everybody
艾瑪紐埃爾	Emmanuel or Emmanuelle (name)
艾略特	(name) Elliott; Eliot
艾登堡	(name) Attenborough
艾窩窩	glutinous rice cake with a sweet filling
艾納香	sambong (Blumea balsamifera)
艾絨	moxa floss
艾美獎	Emmy Award
艾老	(literary) person aged over fifty; elderly person
艾草	Asian mugwort or wormwood (genus Artemesia)
艾菲爾鐵塔	(Tw) Eiffel Tower
艾葉	mugwort leaf (TCM); Folium Artemisiae argyi
艾葉油	mugwort leaf oil (TCM); also called wormwood leaf oil
艾葉炭	carbonized mugwort leaf (used in TCM)
艾蒿	mugwort (Artemisia)
艾薩克	Isaac (name)
艾薩克·牛頓	Sir Isaac Newton (1642-1727), British mathematician and physicist
艾賽克斯	Essex (English county)
艾迪	Eddie (name)
艾迪卡拉	Ediacaran (c. 635-542 million years ago), late phase of pre-Cambrian geological era
艾迪生	Addison (name); Addison, city in United States
艾酒	wine flavored with Chinese mugwort
艾青	Ai Qing (1910-1996), Chinese poet
艾鼬	steppe polecat (Mustela eversmanii)
芃	luxuriant growth
芄	Metaplexis stauntoni
芊	green; luxuriant growth
芊萰	green and flourishing; overgrown
芋	taro; Colocasia antiquorum; Colocasia esculenta
芋圓	taro ball (Taiwanese dessert)
芋泥	yam paste (a snack in Chaozhou cuisine)
芋艿	taro
芋螺毒素	conotoxin
芋頭	taro
芋頭色	lilac (color)
芍	Chinese peony; Paeonia albiflora or lactiflora
芍藥	Chinese peony (Paeonia lactiflora); common herbaceous peony
芍陂	Quebei, the ancient name of an irrigation reservoir constructed during the Spring and Autumn period in present-day Anhui, still operational and now known as 安豐塘|安丰塘[An1 feng1 Tang2]
芎	used in 芎藭|芎䓖[xiong1 qiong2] and 川芎[chuan1 xiong1]
芏	used in 茳芏[jiang1 du4]; Taiwan pr. [tu3]
芑	Panicum miliaceum
芒	awn (of cereals); arista (of grain); tip (of a blade)
芒刺在背	feeling brambles and thorns in one's back (idiom); uneasy and nervous
芒市	Mangshi, a county-level city in Dehong Dai and Jingpo Autonomous Prefecture 德宏傣族景頗族自治州|德宏傣族景颇族自治州[De2 hong2 Dai3 zu2 Jing3 po1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
芒康縣	Markam, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
芒果	(loanword) mango
芒果汁	mango juice
芒硝	mirabilite (Na2SO4x10H2O); Glauber's salt
芒種	Mangzhong or Grain in Beard, 9th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 6th-20th June
芒草	Miscanthus (genus of grass)
芕	a kind of medicinal herb
芘	Malva sylvestris
芙	used in 芙蓉[fu2 rong2], lotus
芙蓉	cotton rose hibiscus (Hibiscus mutabilis); lotus
芙蓉出水	lit. lotus rises from the water (idiom); fig. to blossom (of poem or art)
芙蓉區	Furong, a district of Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
芙蓉花	cotton rose hibiscus (Hibiscus mutabilis); lotus
芚	green sprout; foolish
芝	Zoysia pungens
芝加哥	Chicago, USA
芝加哥大學	University of Chicago
芝士	(loanword) cheese
芝士蛋糕	cheesecake
芝宇	your appearance (honorific); cf 紫芝眉宇
芝心	stuffed crust (pizza); cheesy crust
芝焚蕙嘆	lit. when one grass burns the other grass sighs (idiom); fig. to have sympathy with a like-minded person in distress
芝罘區	Zhifu, a district of Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
芝蘭	lit. iris and orchid; fig. exalted sentiments
芝蘭之室	lit. a room with irises and orchids (idiom); fig. in wealthy and pleasant company
芝蘭玉樹	lit. orchids and jade trees (idiom); fig. a child with splendid future prospects
芝麻	sesame (seed)
芝麻包	sesame bun
芝麻官	low ranking official; petty bureaucrat
芝麻小事	trivial matter; trifle
芝麻油	sesame oil
芝麻綠豆	trivial; minute (size)
芝麻菜	(botany) arugula; rocket; roquette (subspecies Eruca vesicaria sativa)
芝麻醬	sesame paste
芝麻餅	sesame biscuit
芞	a kind of aromatic herb (old)
芟	to cut down; to mow; to eliminate
芡	Gorgon plant; fox nut (Gorgon euryale or Euryale ferox)
芡實	Gorgon fruit; Semen euryales (botany)
芡粉	cornstarch; powder made from Gorgon fruit
芣	used in 芣苡[fu2 yi3] and 芣苢[fu2 yi3]; Taiwan pr. [fou2]
芣苢	(archaic) see 車前|车前[che1 qian2]
芤	hollow; scallion stalk
芥	mustard
芥子氣	mustard gas
芥末	mustard; wasabi
芥花油	rapeseed oil; canola oil
芥菜	leaf mustard (Brassica juncea); also pr. [gai4cai4]
芥菜籽	mustard seed
芥蒂	an obstruction; barrier; ill-feeling
芥藍	Chinese broccoli; Chinese kale; cabbage mustard
芧	Scirpis maritimus; small chestnut
芨	Bletilla hyacinthina (mucilaginous)
芩	Phragmites japonica
芫	lilac daphne (Daphne genkwa), used in Chinese herbal medicine
芫花	lilac daphne; Daphne genkwa
芫花素	genkwanin
芫荽	coriander (Coriandrum sativum)
芫荽葉	coriander leaf
芬	perfume; fragrance
芬多精	phytoncide (biochemistry)
芬太尼	(loanword) fentanyl
芬尼	pfennig (monetary unit) (loanword)
芬芳	perfume; fragrant
芬蘭	Finland
芬蘭語	Finnish (language); suomen kieli
芬達	Fanta (soft drink brand); Fender (guitar brand)
芬香	fragrance; fragrant
芭	an unidentified fragrant plant mentioned in the Songs of Chu 楚辭|楚辞[Chu3 ci2]
芭拉	guava (loanword from Taiwanese)
芭拉芭拉	para para, a Eurobeat dance originating in Japan, with synchronized upper body movements (loanword from Japanese)
芭提雅	Pattaya, Thailand
芭樂	guava (loanword from Taiwanese)
芭樂歌	(Tw) ballad (loanword); mainstream song
芭樂票	(Tw) bounced check; bad check
芭比	Barbie
芭芭拉	Barbara or Barbra (name)
芭菲	parfait (loanword)
芭蕉	Japanese banana (Musa basjoo)
芭蕉扇	palm-leaf fan
芭蕾	ballet (loanword)
芭蕾舞	ballet (loanword)
芭達雅	Pattaya or Phatthaya city in Chon Buri province of east Thailand
芮	surname Rui
芮城縣	Ruicheng, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
芮氏	(Tw) (seismology) Richter (scale)
芮氏規模	(Tw) (seismology) Richter scale
芯	(bound form) the pith of the rush plant (used as a lampwick)
芯子	fuse; wick; forked tongue (of a snake)
芯片	computer chip; microchip
芯片組	chipset
芰	(archaic) water caltrop (Trapa natans)
花	flower; blossom; fancy pattern
花不棱登	gaudy; having too many jumbled colors
花俏	fancy; gaudy
花光	to spend all one's money
花兒	style of folk song popular in Gansu, Qinghai and Ningxia
花冠	corolla
花冠皺盔犀鳥	(bird species of China) wreathed hornbill (Rhyticeros undulatus)
花前月下	(idiom) romantic surroundings
花劍	foil (fencing)
花匠	gardener
花卉	flowers and plants
花卷	Chinese steamed twisted bread roll
花叢	cluster of flowers; inflorescence; flowering shrub
花名	name of a person on the household register (old); name on a roster
花呢	fancy suiting
花哨	garish; gaudy
花唄	Ant Check Later, consumer credit service offered by Ant Financial Services 螞蟻金服|蚂蚁金服[Ma3 yi3 Jin1 fu2]
花商	florist
花圃	flowerbed; parterre
花圈	wreath; garland
花園	garden (for flowers, ornamental plants etc); (landscaped) park; yard with decorative plants
花園鞋	Crocs shoes (or any similar shoe)
花團錦簇	brightly colored decorations (idiom); splendid
花地瑪堂區	Parish of Our Lady of Fatima (Macau)
花垣縣	Huayuan, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
花塢	sunken flower-bed
花壇	decorative mass planting of flowers and shrubs, often bounded by a low masonry border, and often part of a streetscape
花大姐	common word for ladybug, more formally 瓢蟲|瓢虫[piao2 chong2]
花天酒地	to spend one's time in drinking and pleasure (idiom); to indulge in sensual pleasures
花好月圓	lit. lovely flowers, round moon (idiom); fig. everything is wonderful
花子	beggar (old term)
花季	youthful time; prime of youth; flowering season
花容月貌	lit. countenance of a flower, face like the moon (idiom)
花尾榛雞	(bird species of China) hazel grouse (Tetrastes bonasia)
花展	flower show
花山區	Huashan, a district of Ma'anshan City 馬鞍山市|马鞍山市[Ma3 an1 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
花崗岩	granite
花崗石	granite
花巧	fancy
花布	printed cloth; calico
花床	flower bed
花序	inflorescence; flower cluster
花店	flower shop
花廳	reception pavilion (generally part of a large residence, and often built in a garden)
花式	fancy; showy; elaborate
花式游泳	(Tw) synchronized swimming
花式溜冰	figure skating
花式滑冰	(Tw) figure skating
花式足球	freestyle soccer
花彩	to festoon; to decorate with a row of colored garlands
花彩雀鶯	(bird species of China) white-browed tit-warbler (Leptopoecile sophiae)
花心	fickle in love; unfaithful; heart of a flower (pistil and stamen)
花心大蘿蔔	(coll.) womanizer; skirt-chaser
花心思	to think through; to invest effort in thinking about
花戶	registered occupants of a house
花房	greenhouse
花托	receptacle (base of flower)
花把勢	expert flower grower
花把式	expert flower grower
花押	signature (in grass-style writing)
花招	trick; maneuver; razzle-dazzle
花括號	braces; curly brackets { }
花拳	showy boxing of no practical use
花拳繡腿	flowery of fist with fancy footwork (idiom)
花掉	to spend (time, money); to waste
花斑	patches; mottling
花斑癬	pityriasis versicolor (aka tinea versicolor), blotchy skin condition common in tropical areas, common name 汗斑[han4 ban1]
花旗	the Stars and Stripes (US flag)
花旗參	American ginseng
花旗國	USA (land of the stars and stripes)
花旗銀行	Citibank; abbr. to 花旗
花旦	role of vivacious young female in Chinese opera
花時間	to take up time; to spend time
花會	flower fair or festival
花有重開日，人無再少年	a flower may blossom again, but a person cannot get young again (proverb)
花朝月夕	a beautiful day
花朝節	Birthday of the Flowers, spring festival on lunar 12th or 15th February
花期	the flowering season
花木	flowers and trees; plants; flora
花木蘭	Hua Mulan, legendary woman warrior (c. fifth century), Northern dynasties folk hero recorded in Sui and Tang literature
花朵	flower
花束	bouquet
花果山	Mount Huaguo in Jiangsu, featured in 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4], tourist destination
花枝	spray (sprig of a plant with blossoms); cuttlefish (on dining menus)
花枝招展	lit. lovely scene of blossoming plants swaying in the breeze (idiom)
花架子	attractive appearance, but without substance
花柱	style (female organ of flower)
花柳病	sexually transmitted disease; venereal disease
花栗鼠	chipmunk (genus Tamias)
花梗	stem of flower
花椒	Sichuan pepper; Chinese prickly ash
花椰菜	cauliflower
花槍	short spear (arch.); fig. trickery
花樣	pattern; way of doing sth; trick
花樣刀	figure skates
花樣年華	full bloom of youth
花樣游泳	synchronized swimming
花樣滑冰	figure skating
花池子	flower bed
花活	trick; deception
花海	sea of flowers; expanse of flowers
花溪區	Huaxi, a district of Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
花滑	figure skating (abbr. for 花樣滑冰|花样滑冰[hua1 yang4 hua2 bing1])
花灑	showerhead; sprinkler
花火	firework
花炮	firecracker
花無百日紅	No flower can bloom for a hundred days.
花燈	colored lantern (used at Lantern Festival 元宵節|元宵节)
花燈戲	opera for popular in Sichuan and Yunnan
花燭	wedding candles; a pair of large, red, ornately decorated candles placed in the bridal chamber during a traditional Chinese wedding night, symbolizing the union of the couple
花環	garland; floral hoop
花瓣	petal
花瓶	flower vase
花生	peanut
花生仁	shelled peanut; peanut kernel
花生秀	(loanword) fashion show
花生米	shelled peanuts
花生醬	peanut butter
花用	to spend (money)
花田雞	(bird species of China) Swinhoe's rail (Coturnicops exquisitus)
花甲	60 years (of age)
花甲之年	(idiom) 60 years old
花痴	to be smitten with sb; love-struck fool; starry-eyed infatuation
花白	grizzled (hair)
花盆	flower pot
花石	marble
花童	page boy; flower girl (at a wedding)
花簇	bunch of flowers; bouquet
花粉	pollen
花粉熱	hay fever
花粉症	hay fever; seasonal allergic rhinitis
花粉過敏	hay fever
花紅	Chinese pearleaf crabapple (Malus asiatica)
花紅柳綠	red flowers and green willow; all the colors of spring
花紋	decorative design
花結	decorative bow of ribbon or fabric
花絮	(news) tidbits; interesting sidelights
花絲	stalk (filament) of stamen
花緞	brocade; figured satin
花肥	fertilizer for potted flowers
花腔	florid ornamentation in opera; coloratura
花腹綠啄木鳥	(bird species of China) laced woodpecker (Picus vittatus)
花膠	dried swim bladder; fish maw
花臂	tattoo-covered arm; tattoo sleeve
花臉鴨	(bird species of China) Baikal teal (Sibirionetta formosa)
花臺	flower bed; flower terrace; flower stand
花色	variety; design and color; suit (cards)
花色素	anthocyanidin (biochemistry)
花色素苷	anthocyanin (biochemistry)
花花世界	the teeming world; the world of sensual pleasures
花花公主	playgirl
花花公子	playboy
花花搭搭	mixed; uneven in texture
花花綠綠	brightly colored; gaudy
花花腸子	(slang) a cunning plot
花芽	flower bud
花苞	flower bud
花茶	scented tea
花草	flowers and plants
花菜	cauliflower
花萼	sepal
花落誰家	who will be the winner?
花蓮	Hualien, city and county on the east coast of Taiwan
花蓮市	Hualien city on the east coast of Taiwan
花蓮縣	Hualien County on the east coast of Taiwan
花蕊	stamen; pistil
花蕾	bud; flower bud
花藝	floriculture; art of flower arrangement
花藝師	florist; floral designer
花藥	anther (pollen sack on stamen)
花蚊子	(coll.) Asian tiger mosquito (Aedes albopictus)
花蛤	clam; bivalve mollusk, many spp.
花蜜	nectar
花蟒	python
花街	red-light district
花街柳巷	(idiom) red-light district
花被	perianth (common term for calyx and corolla)
花裡胡哨	gaudy; flashy (but without substance)
花言巧語	graceful words, flowery speech (idiom); elegant but insincere words
花語	the language of flowers; symbolic meaning associated with a flower
花豹	leopard
花貌蓬心	florid outside appearance, unkempt interior (idiom)
花貓	tabby cat; calico cat
花費	expense; cost; to spend (time or money)
花車	car festooned for celebration
花轎	bridal sedan chair
花農	flower grower
花邊	lace; decorative border
花邊人物	person who is often the subject of gossip or sensational news; tabloid favorite; clickbait star
花邊新聞	media gossip; sensational news
花都	alternative name for Paris
花都區	Huadu, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
花酒	drinking party with female entertainers
花銷	to spend (money); expenses
花錢	to spend money
花錢受氣	(idiom) to have a bad experience as a customer
花錢找罪受	to spend money on sth that turns out to be unsatisfactory or even disastrous
花雕	Shaoxing yellow wine
花雞	chaffinch (family Fringillidae)
花露水	perfumed toilet water; eau de cologne; floral water
花青素	anthocyanidin (biochemistry)
花面狸	masked palm civet (Paguma larvata)
花頭	trick; pattern; novel idea
花頭鸚鵡	(bird species of China) blossom-headed parakeet (Psittacula roseata)
花飾	ornamental design
花餃	dumpling
花香	fragrance of flowers
花骨朵	(coll.) flower bud
花魁	the queen of flowers (refers esp. to plum blossom)
花鳥	painting of birds and flowers
花黃	yellow flower (cosmetic powder used on women's forehead in former times)
花點子	trickery; scam
花鼓	flower drum, a type of double-skinned Chinese drum
花鼓戲	opera form popular along Changjiang
芳	fragrant
芳容	beautiful face (of a young lady)
芳心	the affection, or heart, of a young woman
芳札	good letter
芳烴	aromatic hydrocarbon
芳療	aromatherapy (abbr. for 芳香療法|芳香疗法[fang1 xiang1 liao2 fa3])
芳華	young years; youth
芳香	fragrant; aromatic; fragrance
芳香烴	aromatic hydrocarbon (i.e. involving benzene ring)
芳香環	benzene ring (chemistry); aromatic ring
芳香療法	aromatherapy
芳香醋	balsamic vinegar
芳齡	age (of a young woman)
芴	fluorene C13H10; (old) name of an edible wild plant
芷	angelica (type of iris); plant root used in TCM
芷江侗族自治縣	Zhijiang Dong Autonomous County, in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
芸	common rue (Ruta graveolens)
芸帙	(old) books
芸窗	study (room)
芸籤	bookmark; books
芸編	(old) books
芸芸	numerous; diverse and varied
芸芸眾生	every living being (Buddhism); the mass of common people
芸草	(botany) rue (Ruta graveolens)
芸豆	kidney bean
芸閣	imperial library
芸香	(botany) rue (Ruta graveolens)
芸香屬	(botany) genus Ruta
芸香科	(botany) family Rutaceae (rue family, aka citrus family)
芹	Chinese celery
芹菜	celery (Apium graveolens)
芻	to mow or cut grass; hay; straw
芻狗	(literary) straw dog used as a ritual offering in ancient China (treated with reverence during the rite and discarded afterwards)
芻秣	hay; fodder
芻糧	army provisions
芻蕘	to mow grass and cut firewood; grass mower; woodman
芻議	lit. grass-cutter's comment (humble); fig. my observation as a humble layman
芻豢	livestock; farm animals
芼	select; vegetables
芽	bud; sprout
芽孢	endospore
芽眼	(botany) undeveloped bud; eye
芽苗	a shoot; a sprout; a seedling
芾	luxuriance of vegetation
芿	weeds that regrow from cut-down roots
苄	benzyl (chemistry)
苄星青黴素	(pharmacology) benzathine benzylpenicillin (aka benzathine penicillin G)
苄胺	(chemistry) benzylamine (C6H5CH2NH2)
苉	picene (C22H14)
苊	acenaphthene (C12H10)
苑	(literary) enclosed area for growing trees, keeping animals etc; imperial garden; park
苒	luxuriant growth; passing (of time)
苓	fungus; tuber
苓雅	Lingya district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
苓雅區	Lingya district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
苔	moss; lichen; liverwort
苔原	tundra
苔蘚	moss
苕	reed grass; Chinese trumpet vine (Campsis grandiflora) (old)
苗	surname Miao; Miao ethnic group
苗圃	Miao Pu (1977–), Chinese actress
苗子	young successor; seedling; sapling
苗床	seedbed
苗族	Miao ethnic group
苗期	(agriculture) seedling stage
苗木	sapling; young tree (esp. nursery-grown)
苗栗	Miaoli city and county in northwest Taiwan
苗栗市	Miaoli city in northwest Taiwan, capital of Miaoli county
苗栗縣	Miaoli county in northwest Taiwan
苗條	(of a woman) slim; slender; graceful
苗裔	offspring; descendant; progeny
苗頭	first signs; development (of a situation)
苘	Indian mallow (Abutilon theophrasti); Indian hemp (cannabis)
苘麻	Indian mallow (Abutilon theophrasti); Indian hemp (cannabis)
苙	(herb); pigsty
苛	severe; exacting
苛刻	harsh; severe; demanding
苛性	caustic (chemistry)
苛性鈉	sodium hydroxide NaOH; caustic soda
苛性鉀	caustic potash; potassium hydroxide KOH
苛捐	exorbitant levies
苛捐雜稅	exorbitant taxation (idiom)
苛求	demanding
苛責	to criticize harshly; to excoriate
苜	clover
苜蓿	lucerne; alfalfa
苞	bud; flower calyx; luxuriant
苞片	bract (botany)
苞米	(dialect) corn; maize
苟	(literary) if indeed; (bound form) careless; negligent
苟且	perfunctory; careless; drifting along
苟且偷安	seeking only ease and comfort (idiom); making no attempt to improve oneself
苟且偷生	to drift and live without purpose (idiom); to drag out an ignoble existence
苟取	(literary) to extort; to take as bribe
苟合	illicit sexual relations
苟同	to agree blindly
苟存	to drift through life
苟富貴，勿相忘	don't forget your friends when you become rich
苟延殘喘	(idiom) to struggle on whilst at death's door
苟活	to live without dignity; to barely sustain oneself
苠	multitude; skin of bamboo
苡	used in 芣苡[fu2 yi3]
苡米	grains of Job's tears plant 薏苡[yi4 yi3]
苢	used in 芣苢[fu2 yi3]
苣	used in 苣蕒菜|苣荬菜[qu3 mai5 cai4]; Taiwan pr. [ju4]
苣蕒菜	endive (Cichorium endivia); field sowthistle (Sonchus arvensis)
苤	used in 苤藍|苤蓝[pie3 lan5]
苤藍	kohlrabi (Brassica oleracea)
若	used in 般若[bo1 re3]; used in 蘭若|兰若[lan2 re3]
若且唯若	if and only if
若即若離	lit. seeming neither close nor distant (idiom)
若干	a certain number or amount; how many?; how much?
若是	if
若有所失	as if one had lost something (idiom)
若有所思	(idiom) looking pensive; thoughtfully
若有若無	indistinct; faintly discernible
若望	John; Saint John
若望福音	Gospel of John (used in Catholic Bible translations)
若果	(literary) if; supposing that
若無其事	(idiom) as if nothing had happened; calm and composed; nonchalant
若然	if; if so
若爾蓋縣	Zoigê, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
若瑟	Joseph (biblical name)
若羌縣	Ruoqiang, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
若翰	John (less common form of 若望[Ruo4 wang4] or 約翰|约翰[Yue1 han4])
若蟲	(entomology) nymph
若要人不知，除非己莫為	If you don't want anyone to know, don't do it (idiom). fig. If you do something bad, people will inevitably hear about it.
若開山脈	Arakan Yoma, mountain range in western Myanmar (Burma)
若隱若現	(idiom) faint; indistinct
若非	were it not for; if not for
苦	bitter; hardship; pain
苦不唧	slightly bitter
苦不堪言	to suffer unspeakable misery; indescribably painful; hellish
苦中作樂	to find joy in sorrows (idiom); to enjoy sth in spite of one's suffering
苦主	(old) the family of the victim in a murder case
苦事	hard job; arduous task
苦刑	torture
苦力	bitter work; hard toil
苦功	hard work; laborious effort; painstaking work
苦勞	toil; hard work
苦參	liquorice (Sophora flavescens), with roots used in TCM
苦口	lit. bitter taste (cf good medicine tastes bitter 良藥苦口|良药苦口)
苦口婆心	earnest and well-meaning advice (idiom); to persuade patiently
苦味	bitter taste; bitterness
苦命	hard lot; bitter fate; unfortunate
苦哈哈	to have difficulty getting by; to struggle (financially etc)
苦因	affliction
苦境	grievance; dire straits
苦大仇深	(idiom) great bitterness and deep hatred; deeply ingrained long-standing resentment
苦寒	bitter cold
苦工	hard labor (in penal code); coolie
苦差	hard task; difficult mission; arduous and unrewarding undertaking
苦幹	to work hard
苦役	forced labor; corvée; penal servitude
苦待	treat harshly
苦心	painstaking effort; to take a lot of trouble; laborious at pains
苦心孤詣	to make painstaking efforts (idiom); after much trouble
苦心經營	to build up an enterprise through painstaking efforts
苦思	to think hard; bitter thoughts; to pour out one's sufferings
苦思冥想	(idiom) to think deeply; to rack one's brains
苦悶	depressed; dejected; feeling low
苦情	wretched situation; plight; wretched
苦惱	vexed; distressed
苦戰	to fight a hard battle; (fig.) to struggle hard
苦於	to suffer from (a disadvantage)
苦日子	hard times
苦杏仁苷	amygdalin
苦果	lit. bitter fruit; fig. painful consequence
苦根	underlying cause of poverty
苦楚	suffering; misery; pain (esp. psychological)
苦楝	chinaberry (Melia azedarach)
苦水	bitter water (e.g. mineral water containing sulfates); suffering
苦況	wretched state; miserable plight
苦活	bitter work; sweated labor
苦海	lit. sea of bitterness; abyss of worldly suffering (Buddhist term)
苦海無邊，回頭是岸	The sea of bitterness has no bounds, turn your head to see the shore (idiom). Only Buddhist enlightenment can allow one to shed off the abyss of worldly suffering.
苦海茫茫	sea of bitterness is vast (idiom)
苦澀	bitter and astringent; pained; agonized
苦熬	to endure (years of suffering)
苦瓜	bitter melon (bitter gourd, balsam pear, balsam apple, leprosy gourd, bitter cucumber)
苦瓜臉	sour expression on one's face
苦甘	bitter sweet
苦痛	pain; suffering
苦盡甘來	bitterness finishes, sweetness begins (idiom); the hard times are over, the good times just beginning
苦窯	(slang) prison
苦竹	bitter bamboo (Pleioblastus amarus)
苦笑	to force a smile; a bitter laugh
苦練	to train hard; to practice diligently; hard work
苦肉計	the trick of injuring oneself to gain the enemy's confidence
苦膽	gallbladder
苦艾	wormwood; Artemisia absinthium
苦艾酒	absinthe (distilled anise-based liquor)
苦苓	chinaberry (Melia azedarach)
苦苣	endive
苦苦	strenuously; persistently; hard
苦苦哀求	to entreat piteously; to implore
苦菊	endive
苦菜花	Bitter Herbs, 1958 novel by Feng Deying 馮德英|冯德英[Feng2 De2 ying1], made into a film in 1965
苦蕒菜	Ixeris denticulata
苦蘵	cutleaf ground-cherry; Physalis angulata
苦處	suffering; distress
苦行	ascetic practice
苦行僧	ascetic monk
苦行贖罪	penance (to atone for a sin)
苦衷	secret trouble; sorrow; difficulties
苦諫	to admonish strenuously
苦趣	wretched feelings (opposite: 樂趣|乐趣, delight)
苦迭塔	(loanword) coup d'état
苦迭打	(loanword) coup d'état
苦逼	(coll.) miserable; wretched
苦集滅道	the Four Noble Truths (Budd.), namely: all life is suffering 苦[ku3], the cause of suffering is desire 集[ji2], emancipation comes only by eliminating passions 滅|灭[mie4], the way 道[dao4] to emancipation is the Eight-fold Noble Way 八正道[ba1 zheng4 dao4]
苦難	suffering
苦難深重	deep grief; extensive sorrow
苦頭	sufferings
苧	used in 苧麻|苎麻[zhu4 ma2]
苧麻	(botany) ramie (Boehmeria nivea); the fiber of this plant
苪	bright; shining, splendid
苫	straw mat; thatch
苯	benzene; benzol (chemistry)
苯丙氨酸	phenylalanine (Phe), an essential amino acid
苯丙胺	(chemistry) amphetamine (C9H13N)
苯丙酮尿症	(medicine) phenylketonuria
苯並噻吩	benzothiophene C8H9, a heterocyclic compound (with one benzene ring and one cyclopentene ring)
苯乙烯	(chemistry) styrene
苯二氮䓬	(organic chemistry, pharmacology) benzodiazepine
苯基	phenyl group
苯氧基	phenoxy (chemistry)
苯環	benzene ring (chemistry)
苯環利定	phencyclidine (PCP)
苯甲酰氯	benzoil chloride C6H5COCl
苯甲酸	benzoic acid C6H5COOH
苯甲酸鈉	sodium benzoate, E211 (a food preservative)
苯甲醛	benzaldehyde C6H5CHO, the simplest aromatic aldehyde
苯胺	(chemistry) aniline (C6H5NH2); aminobenzene
苯那辛	benactyzine
苯酚	phenol C6H5OH
苯酮尿症	phenylketonuria (PKU)
英	United Kingdom; British; England
英中	(Hong Kong) secondary school that uses English as a medium of instruction ("EMI school")
英仙座	Perseus (constellation)
英仙臂	Perseus spiral arm (of our galaxy)
英代爾	(Tw) Intel
英俊	handsome
英倫	England
英倫三島	British Isles
英倫腔	British accent
英倫風格	British style (fashion)
英偉達	NVIDIA, computer graphics card company
英兩	British imperial ounce (old)
英勇	heroic; gallant; valiant
英勇犧牲	to heroically sacrifice one's life
英吉利	England (historical loan, from English)
英吉利海峽	English Channel
英吉沙縣	Yengisar, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
英名	illustrious name; legendary reputation
英噸	tonne; imperial or US tonne, equal to 2240 pounds or 1.016 metric tons
英國	United Kingdom (UK); Britain
英國人	British person; the British
英國工程技術學會	The Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET)
英國廣播公司	British Broadcasting Corporation; BBC
英國廣播電台	British Broadcasting Corporation; BBC
英國文化協會	British Council
英國皇家學會	Royal Society
英國石油	British Petroleum, BP
英國石油公司	British Petroleum, BP
英國管	English horn
英國電訊公司	British telecom; BT
英姿	heroic bearing; dashing figure
英姿颯爽	(of a person) valiant and formidable-looking; to carry oneself tall
英宗	Yingzong, temple name of sixth and eighth Ming emperor Zhengtong 正統|正统[Zheng4 tong3]
英寸	inch (unit of length equal to 2.54 cm.)
英尋	fathom (1.83 meters)
英尺	foot (unit of length equal to 0.3048 m)
英屬哥倫比亞	British Columbia, Pacific province of Canada
英屬維爾京群島	British Virgin Islands
英山縣	Yingshan, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
英年	the prime of one's life; youthful years
英年早逝	to die an untimely death (idiom); to be cut off in one's prime
英廣	BBC (abbr. for 英國廣播公司|英国广播公司[Ying1 guo2 Guang3 bo1 Gong1 si1])
英式	British-style; English-style
英式橄欖球	rugby
英德	Anglo-German; England and Germany
英德市	Yingde, a county-level city in Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
英文	English (language)
英明	wise; brilliant
英明果斷	wise and resolute
英格蘭	England
英格蘭銀行	Bank of England
英武	soldierly; martial (appearance)
英氣	heroic spirit
英法	UK-France
英漢	English-Chinese
英漢對譯	English-Chinese parallel text
英烈	hero; martyr; heroic
英特爾	Intel (US semiconductor company)
英畝	acre
英短	British shorthair (abbr. for 英國短毛貓|英国短毛猫[Ying1 guo2 duan3 mao2 mao1])
英石	ornamental limestone rock (供石[gong1 shi2]) from Yingde 英德[Ying1 de2], Guangdong
英聯合王國	United Kingdom
英聯邦	British Commonwealth of Nations
英華	English-Chinese
英語	English (language)
英語教學	English Language Teaching (ELT); studying and teaching English
英語熱	craze for learning English
英語系	anglophone; English department
英語角	English corner; spoken English practice group
英譯	English translation
英超	Premier League; England Premier Soccer League
英超賽	England premier soccer league
英軍	British army
英迪格酒店	Hotel Indigo (brand)
英里	mile (unit of length equal to 1.609 km)
英鎊	pound sterling
英雄	hero
英雄好漢	heroes
英雄式	heroic
英雄所見略同	lit. heroes usually agree (idiom); Great minds think alike.
英雄救美	heroic rescue of a damsel in distress
英雄無用武之地	a hero with no chance of using his might
英雄聯盟	League of Legends (video game)
英雄難過美人關	even heroes have a weakness for the charms of a beautiful woman (idiom)
英雌	female hero (esp. in feminist discourse, cf. 英雄[ying1 xiong2])
英靈	spirit of a martyr; spirit of the brave departed
英飛凌	Infineon (electronics company)
苲草	hornwort
苴	(hemp); sack cloth
苴麻	female hemp plant (Cannabis sativa)
苶	weary; tired
苷	licorice; glycoside
苹	(artemisia); duckweed
苻	Angelica anomala
苻堅	Fu Jian (338-385), emperor of Former Qin 前秦[Qian2 Qin2], reigning from 357-385
苾	(phonetic); fragrant
茀	luxuriant growth
茀星	comet (arch.)
茁	to display vigorous, new growth; to sprout
茁壯	healthy and strong; sturdy; thriving
茂	luxuriant; (chemistry) cyclopentadiene
茂南區	Maonan, a district of Maoming City 茂名市[Mao4 ming2 Shi4], Guangdong
茂名市	Maoming, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
茂宜島	Maui, second-largest island of the Hawaiian archipelago
茂密	dense (of plant growth); lush
茂汶縣	Maowen county in Sichuan, home of the Qiang people 羗族|羌族
茂物	Bogor (city in West Java)
茂盛	lush
茂縣	Mao County or Maoxian, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
茂親	one's capable and virtuous relatives
范	surname Fan
范仲淹	Fan Zhongyan (989–1052), Song dynasty scholar and politician, author of On Yueyang Tower 岳陽樓記|岳阳楼记[Yue4 yang2 Lou2 Ji4]
范公偁	Fan Gongcheng (12th century), Southern Song author of 過庭錄|过庭录
范德格拉夫	Van de Graaff (name)
范德格拉夫起電機	Van de Graaff generator
范德瓦耳斯	van der Waals
范德瓦耳斯力	(molecular physics) van der Waals force
范德華力	(molecular physics) van der Waals force
范志毅	Fan Zhiyi (1969-), soccer player
范思哲	Versace (fashion designer)
范斯坦	Dianne Feinstein (1933-), US Senator from California
范曄	historian from Song of the Southern Dynasties 南朝宋, author of History of Eastern Han 後漢書|后汉书
范氏起電機	Van de Graaff generator
范特西	fantasy (loanword)
范瑋琪	Christine Fan (1976-), American-born Taiwanese singer and actress
范縝	Fan Zhen (c. 450-c. 510), philosopher from Qi and Liang of the Southern dynasties, as atheist denying Buddhist teachings on karma and rebirth
范蠡	Fan Li (536-488 BC), politician of Yue state, businessman and economist
茄	phonetic character used in loanwords for the sound "jia", although 夾|夹[jia2] is more common
茄二十八星瓢蟲	28-spotted ladybird; hadda beetle; Henosepilachna vigintioctopunctata
茄克衫	jacket
茄子	eggplant (Solanum melongena L.); aubergine; brinjal
茄子河區	Qiezihe, a district of Qitaihe City 七臺河市|七台河市[Qi1 tai2 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
茄科	Solanaceae (the potato and eggplant family)
茄紅素	Lycopene
茅	reeds; rushes
茅以升	Mao Yisheng (1896-1989), Chinese structural engineer and social activist
茅利塔尼亞	Mauritania (Tw)
茅坑	latrine pit; latrine
茅坑裡點燈	(slang) (fig.) to court death (derived from 找死[zhao3 si3] via its near homophone 照屎[zhao4 shi3])
茅塞頓開	murky darkness suddenly opens (idiom); a sudden flash of insight and all is clear
茅屋	thatched cottage
茅屋頂	thatched roof
茅山	Mt Mao, Daoist mountain southeast of Jurong county 句容[Ju4 rong2], Jiangsu Province
茅廁	(dialect) latrine
茅廬	thatched cottage
茅房	toilet (rural euphemism); thatched hut or house
茅棚	thatched shed
茅盾	Mao Dun (1896-1981), Chinese novelist
茅盾文學獎	Mao Dun Literature Prize, PRC prize for novel writing, awarded since 1982
茅箭區	Maojian, a district of Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
茅臺	Maotai town in Renhuai county, Guizhou
茅臺酒	maotai (a strong spirit produced in Guizhou)
茅舍	cottage; hut
茆	type of water plant; (dialect) loess hills
茇	betel
茈	Common Gromwell or European stoneseed (Lithospermum officinale)
茉	used in 茉莉[mo4 li4]
茉莉	jasmine
茉莉花	jasmine
茉莉花茶	jasmine tea
茉莉菊酯	jasmolin
茌	used in 茌平[Chi2 ping2] (the name of a place in Shandong)
茌平區	Chiping, a district of Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
茍	urgent
茓	to store grain by enclosing it in a woven mat rolled into a vertical cylinder
茓子	long woven mat used to form a cylindrical grain bin
茖	allium victorialis
茗	Thea sinensis; young leaves of tea
茚	indene (chemistry)
茛	ranunculus
茜	(bound form) Indian madder; munjeet (Rubia cordifolia)
茜素	alizarin
茜草	Indian madder; munjeet (Rubia cordifolia)
茝	aromatic plant, possibly Dahurian angelica 白芷[bai2 zhi3] (archaic)
茞	fragrant plant; angelica
茠	to weed; to eradicate
茢	rushes; sedges
茥	Rubus tokkura
茦	pointed grass blade; to prick
茨	Caltrop or puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris); to thatch (a roof)
茨城	Ibaraki (prefecture in Japan)
茨岡	(loanword) tzigane; gypsy
茨欣瓦利	Tskhinvali, capital of South Osetia
茨菰	arrowhead (Sagittaria subulata, a water plant)
茨萬吉拉伊	Morgan Tsvangirai (1952-2018), Zimbabwean politician
茫	vast, with no clear boundary; fig. hazy; indistinct
茫崖市	Mangnai, a county-level city in Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
茫然	blankly; vacantly; at a loss
茫然失措	at a loss (idiom)
茫茫	boundless; vast and obscure
茬	stubble (crop residue); stubble (hair growth)
茬口	harvested land left for rotation; an opportunity
茬地	stubble land after crop has been taken
茬子	stubble
茭	Zizania aquatica
茭白	Manchurian wild rice 菰[gu1], aka water bamboo, or its edible stem, which resembles a bamboo shoot
茭白筍	edible stem of Manchurian wild rice 菰[gu1], aka water bamboo
茯	used in 茯苓[fu2 ling2]
茯苓	Wolfiporia extensa (a wood-decay fungus); fu ling; tuckahoe
茱	used in 茱萸[zhu1 yu2]
茱莉亞	Julia (name)
茱莉婭	Julia (name)
茱莉雅	(name) Julia
茱莉雅·吉拉德	Julia Gillard (1961–), Australian politician, prime minister 2010–2013
茱萸	cornel (Cornus spp.)
茱麗葉	Juliet or Juliette (name)
茲	(literary) this; (literary) now; (literary) year
茲事體大	this is no small thing (idiom); to have a serious matter at hand
茲卡病毒	(Tw) Zika virus
茲因	(formal) whereas; since
茲沃勒	Zwolle (Netherlands)
茳	used in 茳芏[jiang1 du4]
茳芏	Cyperus malaccensis
茴	(bound form) fennel
茴芹	anise (Pimpinella anisum); aniseed; chervil (Anthriscus cerefolium)
茴香	fennel (Foeniculum vulgare)
茴香籽	cumin; fennel seed
茴香豆	star anise-flavored fava beans (snack from Shaoxing, Zhejiang province)
茵	mattress
茵芋	Skimmia japonica
茶	tea; tea plant
茶具	tea set; tea service
茶几	small side table; coffee table
茶包	tea bag; (slang) trouble (loanword)
茶匙	teaspoon
茶坊	teahouse
茶垢	tea stain (on the inside of a tea pot, tea cup etc)
茶壺	teapot
茶座	teahouse; tea-stall with seats; tea-garden or teahouse seat
茶房	waiter; steward; porter
茶敘	to take tea and chat
茶晶	yellow quartz; topaz
茶會	tea party
茶杯	teacup; tea-glass; cup
茶樓	teahouse (usu. of two stories)
茶樹	tea tree; Camellia sinensis
茶歇	tea break; coffee break
茶水	tea prepared in large quantity using inexpensive tea leaves
茶碗	teacup
茶碗蒸	chawanmushi, Japanese savory egg custard dish that is steamed and served in a small bowl
茶磚	tea brick
茶經	the Classic of Tea, first monograph ever on tea and its culture, written by 陸羽|陆羽[Lu4 Yu3] between 760-780
茶缸	mug
茶缸子	mug; tea mug
茶聚	informal gathering with refreshments provided
茶胸斑啄木鳥	(bird species of China) fulvous-breasted woodpecker (Dendrocopos macei)
茶胺酸	(Tw) (biochemistry) theanine
茶色	dark brown; tawny
茶花	camellia
茶莊	tea shop
茶葉	tea; tea leaves
茶葉末兒	tea leaves powder
茶葉蛋	tea egg (egg boiled with flavorings which may include black tea)
茶藝	the art of tea
茶藨子	currant; gooseberry
茶袋	tea bag
茶褐色	dark brown; tawny
茶話會	tea party
茶農	tea grower
茶道	Japanese tea ceremony; sado
茶錢	payment for tea; (old) tip; gratuity
茶鏽	tea stain (on the inside of a tea pot, tea cup etc)
茶陵縣	Chaling, a county in Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
茶隼	kestrel; common Eurasian falcon (Falco tinnunculus)
茶飯不思	no thought for tea or rice (idiom); melancholic and suffering
茶飲	tea drink; tea-based beverage
茶餘飯後	leisure time (over a cup of tea, after a meal etc)
茶館	teahouse
茶館兒	erhua form of 茶館|茶馆[cha2 guan3]
茶馬互市	old tea-horse market between Tibet, China, Southeast Asia and India, formalized as a state enterprise under the Song dynasty
茶馬古道	old tea-horse road or southern Silk Road, dating back to 6th century, from Tibet and Sichuan through Yunnan and Southeast Asia, reaching to Bhutan, Sikkim, India and beyond
茶鹼	Theophylline
茶點	tea and cake; refreshments; tea and dim sum
茷	denseness of grass-foliage
茸	(bound form) (of newly sprouted grass) soft and fine; downy
茸毛	fuzz
茹	to eat; (extended meaning) to endure; putrid smell
茹古涵今	to take in (old and new experiences and sorrows)
茹毛飲血	devour raw meat and fowl (of savages)
茹痛	to endure (suffering or sorrow)
茹素	to eat a vegetarian diet
茹葷	to eat meat
茹葷飲酒	to eat meat and drink wine
茹誌鵑	Ru Zhijuan (1925-1998), female novelist and politician
茹魚	putrid fish
茻	(archaic) overgrown vegetation; dense growth of grass
茼	used in 茼蒿[tong2 hao1]
茼蒿	crown daisy; garland chrysanthemum (Glebionis coronaria)
茽	vegetation growing thickly
荀	(archaic) name of a plant mentioned in ancient texts
荀子	Xunzi, (c. 310-237 BC), Confucian philosopher
荀彧	Xun Yu (163-212), brilliant strategist, advisor of Cao Cao in Three Kingdoms
荁	(vegetable); Viola vaginata
荃	(fragrant plant)
荃灣	Tsuen Wan district of New Territories, Hong Kong
荄	roots of plant
荇	yellow floating heart (Nymphoides peltatum)
荇菜	yellow floating heart (Nymphoides peltatum)
荈	Thea sinensis
草	grass; straw; manuscript
草創	to be in the early stages of establishing
草包	bag made of woven straw; bag filled with straw
草原	grassland; prairie
草原巨蜥	Savannah monitor (Varanus exanthematicus)
草原灰伯勞	(bird species of China) steppe grey shrike (Lanius pallidirostris)
草原百靈	(bird species of China) calandra lark (Melanocorypha calandra)
草原鵰	(bird species of China) steppe eagle (Aquila nipalensis)
草原鷂	(bird species of China) pallid harrier (Circus macrourus)
草叢	underbrush
草圖	a sketch; rough drawing
草地	lawn; meadow; sod
草地鷚	(bird species of China) meadow pipit (Anthus pratensis)
草坪	lawn
草坪機	lawn mower
草場	pastureland
草墊	straw mattress
草墊子	straw mattress; palliasse
草大青	Isatis tinctoria (indigo woad plant)
草字頭兒	grass radical 艹
草寇	bandits
草屋	thatched hut
草履蟲	paramecium
草山	Grassy Hill (hill in Hong Kong)
草帽	straw hat
草擬	first draft; to draw up (a first version)
草料	fodder
草書	grass script; cursive script (Chinese calligraphic style)
草木	vegetation; plants
草木灰	plant ash
草木皆兵	lit. every tree or bush an enemy soldier (idiom); fig. to panic and treat everyone as an enemy
草木鳥獸	flora and fauna
草本	herbaceous; original draft (of a manuscript etc)
草本植物	herbaceous plant
草果	black cardamom; (dialect) strawberry
草根	grass roots (lit. and fig.)
草根網民	grassroots netizens
草案	draft (legislation, proposal etc)
草標	(old) sign made of woven weeds, placed on an object, an animal or a person, indicating that it is for sale.
草民	the grass roots; the hoi polloi
草海	Caohai Lake, Guizhou
草滿囹圄	lit. jails overgrown with grass (idiom); fig. peaceful society
草爬子	tick (zoology)
草率	careless; negligent; sloppy
草率收兵	to work vaguely then retreat (idiom); sloppy and half-hearted
草珊瑚	Sarcandra glabra (botany)
草甸	meadow
草皮	turf; sward; sod
草石蠶	Chinese artichoke; Stachys sieboldii
草碼	the ten numerals 〡,〢,〣,〤,〥,〦,〧,〨,〩,十 nowadays mainly used in traditional trades such as Chinese medicine
草稈	straw; grain stalks
草稿	draft; outline; sketch
草籽	grass seed
草紙	rough straw paper; toilet paper; brown paper
草綠籬鶯	(bird species of China) eastern olivaceous warbler (Iduna pallida)
草編	straw weaving
草耙	a rake
草臺班子	small, poorly-equipped theatrical troupe that tours small towns and villages
草船借箭	lit. using straw boats to borrow arrows (idiom, from 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4])
草草	carelessly; hastily
草草了事	to rush through the work; to get through a thing carelessly
草草收兵	to work vaguely then retreat (idiom); sloppy and half-hearted
草草收場	to rush to conclude a matter; to end up abruptly
草莓	strawberry; (Tw) hickey; love bite
草莓族	pampered young people unaccustomed to hardship (Tw)
草莽	a rank growth of grass; uncultivated land; wilderness
草菅人命	to have disregard for human life (idiom)
草菇	straw mushroom (Volvariella volvacea); paddy straw mushroom
草蓆	straw mat
草薦	straw mattress; palliasse
草藥	herbal medicine
草蜢	grasshopper
草蜻蛉	green lacewing
草酸	oxalic acid C2H2O4
草雞	free-range chicken; (dialect) hen; cowardly
草鞋	straw sandals
草食	herbivorous
草食動物	herbivore
草飼	grass-fed
草魚	grass carp
草鴞	(bird species of China) eastern grass owl (Tyto longimembris)
草鷺	(bird species of China) purple heron (Ardea purpurea)
荊	an early name for the state of Chu 楚國|楚国[Chu3 guo2]; surname Jing
荊山	Thorny mountain (several); Mt Jingshan in Hubei
荊州區	Jingzhou, a district of Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
荊州市	Jingzhou, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
荊棘	thistles and thorns; brambles; thorny undergrowth
荊棘載途	lit. a path covered in brambles
荊榛滿目	thorns and brambles as far as eye can see (idiom); beset by troubles
荊江	Jingjiang section of the Changjiang River 長江|长江, Hunan
荊芥	schizonepeta, herb used in Chinese medicine
荊軻	Jing Ke (-227 BC), celebrated in verse and fiction as would-be assassin of King Ying Zheng of Qin 秦嬴政 (later the First Emperor 秦始皇)
荊門市	Jingmen, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
荍	common mallow (Malva sinensis)
荏	beefsteak plant (Perilla frutescens); soft; weak
荏苒	(literary) (of time) to slip away
荑	(grass)
荒	desolate; shortage; scarce
荒井	Arai (Japanese surname)
荒僻	desolate; deserted; out-of-the-way
荒原	wasteland
荒唐	beyond belief; preposterous; absurd
荒唐無稽	preposterous
荒地	wasteland; uncultivated land
荒寒	desolate and cold; frozen wastes
荒山	desert mountain; barren hill
荒山野嶺	wild, mountainous country
荒島	barren or uninhabited island
荒年	year of famine
荒廢	to abandon (cultivated fields); no longer cultivated; to lie waste
荒怪不經	absurd; unthinkable
荒旱	drought and famine
荒村	an abandoned village
荒棄	to abandon; to let go to waste
荒涼	desolate
荒淫	licentious
荒淫無恥	shameless
荒漠	desert; desolate wilderness; barren wasteland; vast and desolate
荒漠伯勞	(bird species of China) isabelline shrike (Lanius isabellinus)
荒漠化	desertification
荒無人煙	desolate and uninhabited (idiom)
荒煙蔓草	lit. abandoned by men and choked with weeds; desolate (idiom)
荒疏	to be out of practice; rusty
荒瘠	desolate and poor; infertile
荒草	weeds; brush (vegetation); wild grassland
荒蕪	left to return to unchecked growth; overgrown; grown wild
荒誕	beyond belief; incredible; preposterous
荒誕不經	absurd; preposterous; ridiculous
荒誕無稽	ridiculous; unbelievable; absurd
荒謬	absurd; ridiculous
荒謬無稽	completely ridiculous and unfounded
荒謬絕倫	absolutely ridiculous (idiom); preposterous; the height of folly
荒遐	remote region
荒郊	desolate area outside a town
荒野	wilderness
荔	litchi
荔城區	Licheng, a district of Putian City 莆田市[Pu2 tian2 Shi4], Fujian
荔枝	litchi or lychee fruit (Litchi chinensis Sonn.)
荔枝核	seeds of litchi or lychee (in TCM)
荔波縣	Libo, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
荔浦市	Lipu, a county-level city in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
荔灣區	Liwan, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
荳	legume; pulse; bean; pea (CL:顆|颗[ke1],粒[li4]) (variant of 豆[dou4])
荵	polemonium
荷	to carry on one's shoulder or back; burden; responsibility
荷包	embroidered pouch for carrying loose change etc; purse
荷包蛋	poached egg; egg fried on both sides
荷塘	lotus pond
荷塘區	Hetang, a district of Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
荷官	croupier; dealer
荷尼阿拉	Honiara, capital of Solomon Islands (Tw)
荷屬安的列斯	Netherlands Antilles
荷屬聖馬丁	Sint Maarten, island country in the Caribbean
荷巴特	Hobart, capital of Tasmania, Australia
荷槍實彈	(idiom) armed; carrying a loaded firearm
荷澤寺	Heze temple in Fuzhou, Fujian
荷爾蒙	(loanword) hormone
荷花	lotus
荷荷巴	jojoba
荷莉·貝瑞	Halle Berry (1966-), US actress
荷葉	lotus leaf
荷蘭	Holland; the Netherlands
荷蘭式拍賣	Dutch auction; descending-price auction
荷蘭王國	Koninkrijk der Nederlanden; Kingdom of the Netherlands
荷蘭皇家航空	KLM Royal Dutch Airlines
荷蘭盾	Dutch gulden
荷蘭石竹	grenadine; carnation; clove pink
荷蘭芹	parsley
荷蘭語	Dutch (language)
荷蘭豆	snow pea
荷蘭豬	guinea pig
荷重	weight load; load capacity
荷馬	Homer, poet of ancient Greece
荸	used in 荸薺|荸荠[bi2 qi2]
荸薺	Chinese water chestnut (Eleocharis dulcis)
荻	Anaphalis yedoensis (pearly everlasting reed)
荼	thistle; common sowthistle (Sonchus oleraceus); bitter (taste)
荼毒	(literary) to cause great suffering
荼毒生靈	to torment the people (idiom)
荽	coriander
莆	used in 莆田[Pu2 tian2] (the name of a place in Fujian)
莆田市	Putian, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
莉	used in 茉莉[mo4 li4]; used in the transliteration of female names
莊	farmstead; village; manor
莊周	same as Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3] (369-286 BC), Daoist author
莊周夢蝶	Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3] dreams of a butterfly (or is it the butterfly dreaming of Zhuangzi?)
莊嚴	solemn; dignified; stately
莊園	manor; feudal land; villa and park
莊子	Zhuangzi (c. 369–286 BC), Daoist philosopher
莊客	farm hand
莊家	farmhouse; banker (gambling)
莊河市	Zhuanghe, a county-level city in Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
莊浪縣	Zhuanglang, a county in Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
莊稼	farm crop
莊稼人	(coll.) farmer
莊稼地	crop land; arable land
莊稼戶	wealthy farmer; landlord
莊稼活兒	farm work
莊稼漢	peasant; farmer
莊老	Zhuangzi and Laozi, the Daoist masters
莊荷	croupier; dealer
莊重	grave; solemn; dignified
莎	katydid (family Tettigoniidae); phonetic "sha" used in transliteration
莎士比亞	Shakespeare (name)
莎拉	Sara or Sarah (name)
莎拉·佩林	Sarah Palin (1964-), US Republican politician, State governor of Alaska from 2006
莎拉·布萊曼	Sarah Brightman (1960-), English pop star
莎拉波娃	Sharapova (Russian female tennis star)
莎翁	Shakespeare
莎草	coco-grass; nut sedge (Cyperus rotundus)
莎莎舞	salsa (dance)
莎莎醬	(loanword) salsa (sauce)
莎車縣	Yarkant, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
莎麗	sari (loanword)
莒	Zhou Dynasty vassal state in modern day Shandong Province
莒光	Chukuang Island, one of the Matsu Islands
莒南縣	Junan, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
莒國	the state of Ju, ancient Dongyi state
莒縣	Ju County or Juxian, a county in Rizhao City 日照市[Ri4 zhao4 Shi4], Shandong
莓	(bound form) berry (e.g. strawberry, blackberry, loganberry)
莓子	berry
莓果	berry; small edible berry fruit
莔	Fritillaria verticillata
莕	Nymphoides peltatum
莖	stalk; stem
莖幹	stem; stalk
莘	Asarum; Wild ginger; also 細辛|细辛[xi4 xin1]
莘庄鎮	Xinzhuang, town in Minhang District 閔行區|闵行区[Min3 hang2 Qu1], Shanghai
莘縣	Shen County or Shenxian, a county in Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
莘莘	numerous
莘莘學子	a great number of students (idiom)
莙	species of water plant
莙薘菜	chard (Beta vulgaris)
莚	bamboo mat; feast, banquet
莛	stalk of grass
莜麥	naked oat (Avena nuda)
莜麵	oat noodles or flour
莝	to chop straw fine for animals
莞	Skimmia japonica
莞爾	(literary) to smile
莞爾一笑	(literary) to smile
莠	Setaria viridis; vicious
莢	pod (botany)
莢果	seed pod; legume
莢膜組織胞漿菌	Histoplasma capsulatum
莦	jungle grass; lair
莧	amaranth (genus Amaranthus); Joseph's coat (Amaranthus tricolor)
莧科	Amaranthaceae, family of herbaceous plants containing Chinese spinach (Amaranthus inamoenus) 莧菜|苋菜[xian4 cai4]
莧菜	amaranth greens (genus Amaranthus)
莨	Scopalia japonica maxin
莨菪	black henbane
莩	membrane lining inside a cylindrical stem; culm
莪	zedoary (Curcuma zedoaria), plant rhizome similar to turmeric
莫	do not; there is none who
莫三比克	Mozambique (Tw)
莫不	none doesn't; there is none who isn't; everyone
莫不是	probably; perhaps; could it be that...?
莫不然	equally true for (all the rest); the same thing applies (for everyone)
莫不逾侈	there is no-one who is not extravagant
莫代爾	(textiles) modal fiber
莫伊謝耶夫	Moiseyev (name)
莫伯日	Maubeuge (French city)
莫傑斯特	Modest (name); Modeste (name)
莫克姆灣	Morecambe Bay
莫內	Taiwan equivalent of 莫奈[Mo4 nai4]
莫利森	Morrison (name)
莫力達瓦達斡爾族自治旗	Morin Dawa Daur Autonomous Banner in Hulunbuir 呼倫貝爾|呼伦贝尔[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3], Inner Mongolia
莫可名狀	indescribable (joy); inexpressible (pleasure)
莫可指數	countless; innumerable
莫吉托	Mojito
莫名	inexpressible; indescribable; unexplainable; inexplicable
莫名其妙	(idiom) baffling; bizarre; without rhyme or reason; inexplicable
莫哈韋沙漠	Mojave Desert, southwestern USA
莫塔馬灣	Gulf of Martaban, Myanmar (Burma)
莫大	greatest; most important
莫奈	Claude Monet (1840-1926), French impressionist painter
莫如	it would be better
莫尼卡·萊溫斯基	Monica Lewinsky (1973-), former White House intern
莫屬	(the 3rd part of a 3-part construction: 非[fei1] + (noun) + 莫屬|莫属, meaning "to be none other than (noun); would have to be (noun)") (this construction comes after a description of a person or thing that has a certain attribute)
莫扎特	Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756-1791), Austrian composer
莫扎里拉	(loanword) mozzarella
莫拉萊斯	Morales
莫斯特	Mousterian (a Palaeolithic culture)
莫斯科	Moscow, capital of Russia
莫札特	Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756-1791), Austrian composer (Tw)
莫桑比克	Mozambique
莫泊桑	Guy de Maupassant (1850-1893), French novelist and short story writer
莫洛尼	Moroni, capital of Comoros (Tw)
莫測高深	enigmatic; beyond one's depth; unfathomable
莫爾斯	Morse (name)
莫爾斯電碼	Morse code
莫爾茲比港	Port Moresby, capital of Papua New Guinea
莫罕達斯	Mohandas (name)
莫羅尼	Moroni, capital of Comoros
莫耳	(chemistry) mole (loanword) (Tw)
莫臥兒王朝	Mughal or Mogul Dynasty (1526-1858)
莫蕾	mole (Mexican sauce)
莫衷一是	unable to reach a decision (idiom); cannot agree on the right choice
莫言	Mo Yan (1955-), Chinese novelist, winner of 2012 Nobel Prize in Literature
莫講	let alone; not to speak of (all the others)
莫迪	Modi (name)
莫逆	very friendly; intimate
莫逆之交	intimate friendship; bosom buddies
莫過於	nothing can surpass
莫達非尼	modafinil (loanword)
莫里哀	Molière (1622-1673), French playwright and actor, master of comedy
莫霍洛維奇	Andrija Mohorovichich or Mohorovičić (1857-1936), Croatian geologist and seismologist who discovered the Mohorovichich discontinuity or Moho
莫霍洛維奇不連續面	Moho (aka Mohorovičić discontinuity, the lower boundary of the earth's lithosphere)
莫霍面	Moho (aka Mohorovičić discontinuity, the lower boundary of the earth's lithosphere)
莫非	can it be possible that; could it be
莫須有	groundless; baseless
莫高窟	Mogao caves in Dunhuang 敦煌, Gansu
莰	camphane C10H18
莰烯	camphene C10H16
莰烷	camphane; bornane C10H18
莰酮	camphor C10H16O; also called 樟腦|樟脑
莽	(bound form) dense growth of grass; (literary) vast; boundless
莽撞	rash; reckless
莽漢	boor
莽草	Chinese anise (Ilicium anisatum, a shrub with poisonous leaves)
莿	Urtica thunbergiana
菀	used in 紫菀[zi3 wan3]
菁	leek flower; lush; luxuriant
菁英	elite
菁華	the cream; essence; the quintessence
菂	(literary) lotus seed; Taiwan pr. [di1]
菃	(used in names)
菅	(grass); Themeda forsbali
菅原	Sugawara (Japanese surname)
菅直人	KAN Naoto (1946-), Japanese Democratic Party politician, prime minister 2010-2011
菆	arrow; weeds
菇	(bound form) mushroom
菇蕈	mushroom
菉	Arthraxon ciliare; green; rhodacene
菊	(bound form) chrysanthemum
菊池	Kikuchi (Japanese surname and place name)
菊科	Asteraceae or Compositae (composites), a large family of dicotyledonous plants producing scents, includes aster, daisy and sunflower
菊粉	(biochemistry) inulin (aka fructosan)
菊糖	(biochemistry) inulin (aka fructosan)
菊芋	Jerusalem artichoke
菊花	chrysanthemum; (TCM) chrysanthemum flower; (slang) anus
菊花茶	chrysanthemum tea
菊苣	chicory
菌	(bound form) bacterium; (bound form) fungus; Taiwan pr. [jun4]
菌傘	mushroom top
菌子	(dialect) mushroom
菌托	volva (bag containing spores on stem of fungi)
菌柄	mushroom stem
菌界	fungus (taxonomic kingdom); mycota
菌種	(microorganism) species; strain; (fungus and mushroom) spore; spawn
菌絲	mycelium; hypha
菌群	microbiota; microbiome
菌肥	bacterial manure
菌膠團	zoogloea
菌苗	vaccine
菌菇	mushroom
菌落	bacterial colony; microbial colony
菌蓋	cap of mushroom
菌褶	lamella (under the cap of a mushroom)
菌陳蒿	tarragon
菌類	fungus
菎	beautiful jade; bamboo
菏	He river in Shandong
菏澤市	Heze, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
菐	thicket; tedious
菑	(archaic) field recently opened for cultivation; (literary) to weed
菓	fruit (old variant of 果[guo3])
菔	turnip
菕	(archaic) tree (exact species unknown)
菖蒲	Acorus calamus; sweet sedge or sweet flag
菘	(cabbage); Brassica chinensis
菘藍	Isatis tinctoria (woad, a brassica producing blue dye)
菜	vegetable; greens (CL:棵[ke1])
菜刀	vegetable knife; kitchen knife; cleaver
菜包子	steamed bun stuffed with vegetables; (fig.) useless person
菜品	culinary dish
菜單	menu
菜單條	menu bar (of a computer application)
菜單欄	menu bar (computing)
菜圃	vegetable field; vegetable bed
菜園	vegetable garden
菜地	vegetable field
菜場	food market
菜墩子	chopping block
菜市	food market
菜市仔名	(Tw) popular given name (one that will turn many heads if you shout it at a marketplace) (from Taiwanese 菜市仔名, Tai-lo pr. [tshài-tshī-á-miâ], where 菜市仔 means "marketplace")
菜市場	food market
菜市場名	(Tw) popular given name (one that will turn many heads if you shout it at a marketplace)
菜式	dish (food prepared according to a specific recipe)
菜心	choy sum; Chinese flowering cabbage; stem of any Chinese cabbage
菜板	chopping board; cutting board
菜油	rapeseed oil; canola oil
菜燕	agar-agar
菜牛	beef cattle (grown for meat)
菜瓜	snake melon; loofah
菜畦	vegetable field; vegetable bed
菜籃子	vegetable or food basket; (fig.) food supply
菜籽	vegetable seeds; rapeseed
菜籽油	rapeseed oil; canola oil
菜系	(regional) cuisine
菜脯	dried, pickled white radish
菜色	dish; lean and hungry look (resulting from vegetarian diet)
菜花	cauliflower; gonorrhea
菜茹	greens; green vegetables
菜蔬	greens; vegetables; vegetable side dish
菜譜	menu (in restaurant); recipe; cookbook
菜豆	kidney bean
菜農	vegetable farmer
菜雞	(slang) total noob
菜頭	(Tw) radish, esp. white radish 白蘿蔔|白萝卜[bai2 luo2 bo5]
菜頭粿	stir-fried radish cake; chai tow kway
菜餚	vegetable and meat dishes; dish
菜館	(dialect) restaurant
菜鳥	(coll.) sb new to a particular subject; rookie; beginner
菝	used in 菝葜[ba2 qia1]
菝葜	chinaroot (Smilax china)
菟	dodder (Cuscuta sinensis, a parasitic vine with seeds having medicinal uses)
菟絲子	dodder (Cuscuta sinensis, a parasitic vine with seeds used in medicine)
菠	spinach
菠烷	bornane; camphane C10H18
菠菜	spinach (CL:棵[ke1])
菠蘿	pineapple
菠蘿包	pineapple bun, a sweet bun popular esp. in Hong Kong (typically does not contain pineapple – the name comes from the rough top crust which resembles pineapple skin)
菠蘿啤	pineapple-flavored soda
菠蘿油	pineapple bun 菠蘿包|菠萝包[bo1 luo2 bao1] with a slice of butter inserted
菠蘿蜜	jackfruit
菡	lotus blossom
菢	hatch
菣	Artemisia apiacea
菥	used in 菥蓂[xi1 mi4]
菥蓂	pennycress
菧	stibene
菩	used in 菩薩|菩萨[pu2 sa4]; used in 菩提[pu2 ti2]
菩提	bodhi (Sanskrit); enlightenment (Buddhism)
菩提樹	peepul (Ficus religiosa); bodhi tree; sacred fig
菩提道場	Bodhimanda (place of enlightenment associated with a Bodhisattva)
菩提達摩	Bodhidharma
菩薩	(Buddhism) bodhisattva
菪	henbane
菫	violet
華	Mount Hua 華山|华山[Hua4 Shan1] in Shaanxi; surname Hua
華中	central China
華亭市	Huating, a county-level city in Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
華人	ethnic Chinese person or people
華佗	Hua Tuo (c. 145–208), physician of the Eastern Han dynasty
華佗再世	(lit.) a reincarnation of Hua Tuo, the legendary physician of the Eastern Han Dynasty (idiom)
華僑	overseas Chinese
華僑報	Va Kio Daily
華僑大學	Huaqiao University
華北	North China
華北事變	North China Incident of October-December 1935, a Japanese attempt to set up a puppet government in north China
華北平原	North China Plain
華北龍	Huabeisaurus (Huabeisaurus allocotus)
華南	Southern China
華南冠紋柳鶯	(bird species of China) Hartert's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus goodsoni)
華南斑胸鉤嘴鶥	(bird species of China) grey-sided scimitar babbler (Erythrogenys swinhoei)
華南理工大學	South China University of Technology
華南虎	South China Tiger
華商報	China Business News (newspaper)
華商晨報	China Business Morning Post (morning edition of China Business News 華商報|华商报)
華嚴宗	Chinese Buddhist school founded on the Buddhavatamsaka-mahavaipulya Sutra (Garland sutra)
華嚴經	Avatamsaka sutra of the Huayan school
華國鋒	Hua Guofeng (1921-2008), CCP Chairman 1976-1981
華坪縣	Huaping, a county in Lijiang City 麗江市|丽江市[Li4 jiang1 Shi4], Yunnan
華埠	Chinatown; also called 唐人街[Tang2 ren2 jie1]
華夏	old name for China; Cathay
華夏銀行	Huaxia Bank
華夫	waffle (loanword)
華威	Warwick (name); University of Warwick, Coventry, UK
華威大學	University of Warwick, Coventry, UK
華安縣	Hua'an, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
華容區	Huarong, a district of Ezhou City 鄂州市[E4 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
華容縣	Huarong, a county in Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
華容道	Huarong Road (traditional puzzle involving sliding wooden blocks, loosely based on an episode in Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4])
華寧縣	Huaning, a county in Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
華屋	magnificent residence; splendid house
華屋丘墟	magnificent building reduced to a mound of rubble (idiom); fig. all one's plans in ruins
華山	Mt Hua in Shaanxi, western mountain of the Five Sacred Mountains 五嶽|五岳[Wu3 yue4]
華州區	Huazhou, a district of Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
華師大	East China Normal University (abbr. for 華東師範大學|华东师范大学[Hua2 dong1 Shi1 fan4 Da4 xue2])
華府	Washington, D.C.; the US federal government
華彩	gorgeous; resplendent or rich color
華拳	Hua Quan - "Flowery Fist? Magnificent Fist?" - Martial Art
華教	Chinese language education (for people living outside China, esp. the children of overseas Chinese communities)
華文	Chinese language; Chinese script
華族	noble family; of Chinese ancestry
華東	East China
華東師大	East China Normal University (abbr. for 華東師範大學|华东师范大学[Hua2 dong1 Shi1 fan4 Da4 xue2])
華東師範大學	East China Normal University (ECNU)
華東理工大學	East China University of Science and Technology
華林	Hualinbu, Ming dynasty theatrical troupe in Nanjing
華林部	Hualinbu, Ming dynasty theatrical troupe in Nanjing
華氏	Fahrenheit
華氏度	°F (degrees Fahrenheit)
華池縣	Huachi, a county in Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
華沙	Warsaw, capital of Poland
華法林	warfarin (loanword)
華潤	China Resources, a Chinese state-owned conglomerate
華潤萬家	CR Vanguard or China Resources Vanguard Shop, a supermarket chain in Hong Kong and mainland China
華為	Huawei (brand)
華燈	decorated lantern; lantern light
華燈初上	early evening when lanterns are first lit
華爾滋	(Tw) (loanword) waltz (dance)
華爾茲	(loanword) waltz (dance)
華爾街	Wall Street, New York; by extension, American big business
華爾街日報	Wall Street Journal
華特	Walt (name)
華盛頓	Washington (name); George Washington (1732-1799), first US president
華盛頓時報	Washington Times (newspaper)
華盛頓特區	Washington D.C. (US federal capital)
華盛頓郵報	Washington Post (newspaper)
華碩	Asus (computer manufacturer)
華章	(literary) beautiful writing
華米科技	Zepp Health Corporation, Chinese company providing digital health management based on wearable devices, established in 2013
華約	Warsaw Pact, Soviet-led military alliance (1955–1991) (abbr. for 華沙條約組織|华沙条约组织[Hua2 sha1 Tiao2 yue1 Zu3 zhi1])
華納兄弟	Warner Brothers
華納音樂集團	Warner Music Group
華羅庚	Hua Luogeng (1910-1985), Chinese number theorist
華美	magnificent; gorgeous; ornate
華而不實	flower but no fruit (idiom); handsome exterior but hollow inside
華胄	(literary) Han people; descendants of nobles
華興會	anti-Qing revolutionary party set up in Changsha by 黃興|黄兴[Huang2 Xing1] in 1904, a precursor of Sun Yat-sen's Alliance for Democracy 同盟會|同盟会[Tong2 meng2 hui4] and of the Guomindang
華航	China Airlines (Taiwan)
華茲華斯	surname Wordsworth
華蓋	imperial canopy (e.g. domed umbrella-like roof over carriage); aureole
華表	marble pillar (ornamental column in front of places, tombs)
華裔	ethnic Chinese; non-Chinese citizen of Chinese ancestry
華西	West China (region in the upper reaches of Yangtze River and Sichuan Province)
華視	Chinese Television System (CTS), Taiwan (abbr. for 中華電視|中华电视[Zhong1 hua2 Dian4 shi4])
華誕	(formal) birthday; anniversary of the founding of an organization
華語	Chinese language
華語文能力測驗	TOCFL (Test of Chinese as a Foreign Language)
華貴	sumptuous; luxurious
華轂	decorated carriage
華達呢	(loanword) gabardine
華里	li (Chinese unit of distance)
華鎣市	Huaying, a county-level city in Guang'an City 廣安市|广安市[Guang3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
華陰市	Huayin, a county-level city in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
華靡	luxurious; opulent
華髮	(literary) gray hair
華麗	gorgeous
華龍區	Hualong, a district of Puyang City 濮陽市|濮阳市[Pu2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
菰	Manchurian wild rice (Zizania latifolia), now rare in the wild, formerly harvested for its grain, now mainly cultivated for its edible stem known as 茭白筍|茭白笋[jiao1 bai2 sun3], which is swollen by a smut fungus
菱	(bound form) water caltrop (Trapa species)
菱形	rhombus
菱形六面體	(math.) rhombohedron
菱花鏡	antique bronze mirror with flower petal edging, most commonly from the Tang dynasty
菱角	water caltrop (Trapa species), aquatic plant with edible seeds
菱鎂礦	magnesite; magnesium ore
菱鐵礦	siderite
菲	luxuriant (plant growth); rich with fragrance; phenanthrene C14H10
菲亞特	Fiat
菲傭	Filipino maid
菲利普	(name) Philip
菲力	fillet (loanword)
菲力克斯	Felix (name)
菲力牛排	fillet steak
菲姬	Fergie (Stacy Ann Ferguson, 1975-), US pop singer
菲尼克斯	Phoenix, capital of Arizona; also 鳳凰城|凤凰城[Feng4 huang2 cheng2]
菲律賓	the Philippines
菲律賓人	Filipino
菲律賓大學	University of the Philippines
菲律賓語	Tagalog (language)
菲律賓鵑鳩	(bird species of China) Philippine cuckoo-dove (Macropygia tenuirostris)
菲德爾	Fidel (name)
菲林	(dialect) film (loanword); roll of film
菲湼耳透鏡	Fresnel lens
菲爾普斯	Phelps (name)
菲爾特	Fürth (city in Germany)
菲爾茲	Fields (name)
菲爾茲獎	Fields Medal (prestigious international award in mathematics)
菲舍爾	(name) Fisher or Fischer
菲茨傑拉德	Fitzgerald (name)
菲菲	very fragrant; luxurious; beautiful
菲薄	humble; meager; thin
菲達	(loanword) feta (cheese)
菲酌	(humble) the poor food I offer you; my inadequate hospitality
菶	expand; thick weeds
菸	tobacco (variant of 煙|烟[yan1])
菸絲	loose tobacco; fine-cut tobacco
菸蒂	cigarette butt
菸酰胺	nicotinamide; niacinamide
菸醯胺	(Tw) nicotinamide; niacinamide
菸頭	cigarette butt
菸鹼	nicotine
菸鹼素	(Tw) niacin
菸鹼酸	niacin (vitamin B3); nicotinic acid; Pyridine-3-carboxylic acid C6H5NO2
菸鹼醯胺	(Tw) nicotinamide; niacinamide
菹	marshland; swamp; salted or pickled vegetables
菹醢	to execute sb and mince his flesh and bones (archaic form of retribution)
菺	Althaea rosea
菻	ancient name for east Roman empire
菼	Miscanthus sacchariflorus (Amur silvergrass)
菽	legumes (peas and beans)
菾	sugar beet
萁	stalks of pulse
萃	collect; collection; dense
萃取	(chemistry) liquid-liquid extraction (aka solvent extraction); to extract
萄	used in 葡萄[pu2 tao5]
萆	castor seed
萇	plant mentioned in Book of Songs, uncertainly identified as carambola or star fruit (Averrhoa carambola)
萇楚	plant mentioned in Book of Songs, uncertainly identified as carambola or star fruit (Averrhoa carambola)
萊	name of weed plant (fat hen, goosefoot, pigweed etc)
萊伊爾	Lyell (name); Sir Charles Lyell (1797-1875), Scottish geologist
萊佛士	surname Raffles
萊克多巴胺	(organic chemistry) (loanword) ractopamine
萊切	Lecce (city in Italy)
萊卡	Leica camera; Lycra (fiber or fabric)
萊城	Lae, second-largest city in Papua New Guinea, capital of Morobe Province
萊姆	(loanword) lime
萊姆病	Lyme disease
萊山區	Laishan, a district of Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
萊州市	Laizhou, a county-level city in Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
萊布尼茨	Leibniz (name)
萊布尼茲	Leibnitz (name)
萊德杯	Ryder Cup (US and Europe golf team competition)
萊恩	(name) Ryan
萊斯大學	Rice University (Houston, Texas)
萊斯沃斯島	Lesbos (Greek island in the Aegean Sea 愛琴海|爱琴海[Ai4 qin2 Hai3])
萊斯特	Lester or Leicester (name); Leicester, English city in East Midlands
萊斯特郡	Leicestershire, English county
萊旺厄爾	Levanger (city in Trøndelag, Norway)
萊昂納多	Leonardo (name)
萊比錫	Leipzig, city in the state of Saxony, Germany
萊溫斯基	Monica Lewinsky (1973-), former White House intern
萊特	(surname) Wright
萊特幣	Litecoin (cryptocurrency)
萊索托	Lesotho
萊茵河	Rhine River
萊菔	radish
萊菔子	radish seed (used in TCM to treat indigestion)
萊蕪	field with dense growth of wild weeds
萊蕪區	Laiwu, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
萊西市	Laixi, a county-level city in Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
萊豬	(Tw) (neologism) pork containing ractopamine 萊克多巴胺|莱克多巴胺[lai2 ke4 duo1 ba1 an4]
萊賽爾	(textiles) (loanword) lyocell
萊里達	Lérida or Lleida, Spain
萊陽市	Laiyang, a county-level city in Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
萊頓	Leiden (the Netherlands)
萊頓大學	University of Leiden
萊麥丹	Ramadan (loanword)
萊齊耶三世	Letsie III of Lesotho
萋	Celosia argentea; luxuriant
萋萋	luxuriant; lavish; abundant
萌	(bound form) to sprout; to bud
萌動	to sprout; (fig.) to emerge
萌古	(archaic) Mongol
萌娃	cute little kid
萌新	(neologism) (slang) newbie
萌渚嶺	Mengzhu mountain range between south Hunan and Guangxi
萌生	to burgeon; to produce; to conceive
萌發	to sprout; to shoot; to bud
萌芽	(of a seed) to germinate; (of a plant) to sprout; to bud; sprout; bud
萌萌噠	(Internet slang) adorable; cute
萍	duckweed
萍水相逢	strangers coming together by chance (idiom)
萍蓬草	spatterdock (Nuphar pumilum), a type of lily
萍鄉市	Pingxiang, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
萎	to wither; to drop; to decline
萎縮	to wither; to dry up (of a plant)
萎葉	betel
萎蕤	angular Solomon's seal (Polygonatum odoratum)
萎靡	listless; dispirited; lacking in vigor; languishing
萎靡不振	dispirited and listless (idiom); downcast
萏	lotus
萐	(auspicious herb)
萑	a kind of reed
萘	naphthalene C10H8
萘丸	mothball; naphthalene ball
萘醌	naphthoquinone (chemistry)
萜	terpene (chemistry)
萜烯	terpene (chemistry)
萩	Lespedeza bicolor
萬	ten thousand; a great number
萬一	just in case; if by any chance; contingency
萬丈	lit. ten thousand fathoms; fig. extremely high or deep; lofty
萬丈高樓平地起	towering buildings are built up from the ground (idiom)
萬不得已	only when absolutely essential (idiom); as a last resort
萬世	all ages
萬世師表	model teacher of every age (idiom); eternal paragon
萬事	all things
萬事亨通	everything is going smoothly (idiom)
萬事俱備，只欠東風	lit. everything is ready, all we need is an east wind (idiom)
萬事大吉	everything is fine (idiom); all is well with the world
萬事如意	to have all one's wishes (idiom); best wishes; all the best
萬事得	Mazda Motor Corporation; also known as 馬自達|马自达
萬事起頭難	the first step is the hardest (idiom)
萬事通	jack-of-all-trades; know-it-all
萬事達	MasterCard
萬事開頭難	every beginning is difficult (idiom)
萬人	ten thousand people; all the people; everyman
萬人之敵	a match for ten thousand enemies
萬人塚	mass grave; common grave
萬人敵	a match for ten thousand enemies
萬人空巷	the multitudes come out from everywhere, emptying every alleyway (to celebrate)
萬代	Bandai toy company
萬代千秋	after innumerable ages
萬代蘭	Vanda genus of orchids
萬位	the ten thousands place (or column) in the decimal system
萬億	trillion
萬元戶	household with savings or annual income of 10,000 yuan or more (considered a large amount in the 1970s, when the term became established)
萬兒八千	ten thousand or almost ten thousand
萬全	absolutely safe; surefire; thorough
萬全區	Wanquan, a district of Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
萬分	very much; extremely; one ten thousandth part
萬分痛苦	excruciating
萬劫不復	consigned to eternal damnation; with no hope of reprieve
萬千	myriad; multitudinous; multifarious
萬博省	Huambo province of Angola
萬古千秋	for all eternity (idiom)
萬古長新	to remain forever new (idiom)
萬古長青	(idiom) enduring through the ages; ever-flourishing
萬名	all names
萬國	all nations
萬國博覽會	universal exposition; world expo
萬國宮	Palais des Nations
萬國碼	Unicode; also written 統一碼|统一码[tong3 yi1 ma3]
萬國郵政聯盟	Universal Postal Union
萬國郵聯	Universal Postal Union (UPU)
萬國音標	International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA)
萬壽山	Longevity Hill in the Summer Palace 頤和園|颐和园[Yi2 he2 yuan2], Beijing
萬壽無疆	may you enjoy boundless longevity (idiom); long may you live
萬壽菊	Aztec or African marigold (Tagetes erecta)
萬夫不當	lit. unbeatable by even 10,000 men (idiom)
萬安	completely secure; a sure thing; rest assured
萬安縣	Wan'an, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
萬家樂	Macro (brand)
萬家燈火	(of a city etc) ablaze with lights
萬寧	Wanning City, Hainan
萬寧市	Wanning City, Hainan
萬寶路	Marlboro (cigarette)
萬山區	Wanshan, a district of Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
萬巒	hundreds and thousands of mountains
萬州區	Wanzhou, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
萬年曆	perpetual calendar; ten thousand year calendar
萬年縣	Wannian, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
萬年青	Nippon lily (Rohdea japonica)
萬幸	very lucky indeed
萬念俱灰	every hope turns to dust (idiom); completely disheartened
萬惡	(rhetorical) utterly evil; the worst of all evils
萬惡之源	the root of all evil
萬應靈丹	panacea
萬戶	ducal title meaning lord of 10,000 households
萬戶侯	Marquis (highest Han dynasty ducal title meaning lord of 10,000 households)
萬托林	ventolin, aka salbutamol, an asthma drug
萬智牌	Magic the gathering (online fantasy game of card collecting and battling)
萬曆	reign name of Ming emperor (1573-1619)
萬有	universal
萬有引力	(physics) universal gravitation
萬柏林區	Wanbailin, a district of Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
萬榮縣	Wanrong, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
萬歲	Long live (the king, the revolution etc)!; Your Majesty; His Majesty
萬死不辭	ten thousand deaths will not prevent me (idiom); ready to risk life and limb to help out
萬民	all the people
萬水千山	ten thousand crags and torrents (idiom); the trials and tribulations of a long journey
萬泉河	Wanquan River, Hainan
萬洋山	Mt Wanyang between Jiangxi and Hunan
萬源市	Wanyuan, a county-level city in Dazhou City 達州市|达州市[Da2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
萬無一失	surefire; absolutely safe (idiom)
萬物	all things; all that exists
萬用字元	(computing) wildcard character (Tw)
萬用表	multimeter
萬眾一心	millions of people all of one mind (idiom); the people united
萬福瑪麗亞	Hail Mary; Ave Maria (religion)
萬秀區	Wanxiu, a district of Wuzhou City 梧州市[Wu2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
萬科	Vanke, large Chinese real estate company, founded in 1984
萬箭穿心	(lit.) to have one's heart pierced by thousands of arrows (idiom)
萬籟俱寂	(idiom) dead silent
萬紫千紅	thousands of purples and reds (idiom); a blaze of color
萬維網	World Wide Web
萬聖夜	Halloween (abbr. for 萬聖節前夜|万圣节前夜[Wan4 sheng4 jie2 Qian2 ye4])
萬聖節	All Saints (Christian festival)
萬聖節前夕	All Saints' Eve; Halloween
萬聖節前夜	Halloween
萬能	omnipotent; all-purpose; universal
萬能㹴	Airedale terrier
萬能鑰匙	master key; skeleton key; passkey
萬般	every kind; manifold; extremely
萬般無奈	to have no way out; to have no alternative
萬艾可	Viagra
萬花筒	kaleidoscope
萬華	Wanhua District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
萬華區	Wanhua District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
萬萬	hundred million; (fig.) enormous quantity
萬變不離其宗	many superficial changes but no departure from the original stand (idiom); plus ça change, plus ça reste la mème chose
萬象	every manifestation of nature
萬象更新	(in the spring) nature takes on a new look (idiom)
萬豪	Marriott International (hotel chain)
萬貫	ten thousand strings of cash; very wealthy; millionaire
萬貫家財	vast wealth
萬載縣	Wanzai, a county in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
萬那杜	Vanuatu, country in the southwestern Pacific Ocean (Tw)
萬邦	all nations
萬里	far away; thousands of miles; 10,000 li
萬里江山	lit. ten thousand miles of rivers and mountains
萬里無雲	cloudless
萬里迢迢	(adverbial phrase used with verbs such as 歸|归[gui1] or 赴[fu4] etc) traveling a great distance
萬里長城	the Great Wall
萬里長江	Changjiang River; Yangtze River
萬金油	Tiger Balm, an ointment applied topically to treat all manner of aches and pains
萬隆	Bandung (city in Indonesia)
萬難	countless difficulties; extremely difficult; against all odds
萬靈丹	panacea; cure-all
萬靈節	All Saints' Day (Christian festival on 2nd November)
萬頃	large landholding; vast space
萬頭攢動	(idiom) bustling with many people
萬頭鑽動	(Tw) see 萬頭攢動|万头攒动[wan4 tou2 cuan2 dong4]
萬馬奔騰	lit. (like) ten thousand horses galloping (idiom)
萬馬齊喑	thousands of horses, all mute (idiom); no-one dares to speak out
萬齊融	Wan Qirong (active c. 711), Tang dynasty poet
萮	used in 山萮菜[shan1 yu2 cai4]
萰	Ampelopsis japonica (creeper with root used in TCM)
萱	orange day-lily (Hemerocallis flava)
萱堂	mother (honorific designation)
萱草	Hemerocallis fulva; daylily
萴	plant genus Aconitum, aka monkshood or wolf's bane (used as poison and medicine)
萵	used in 萵苣|莴苣[wo1 ju4]; used in 萵筍|莴笋[wo1 sun3]
萵筍	celtuce; stem lettuce (Lactuca sativa var. asparagina), aka Chinese lettuce
萵苣	lettuce (Lactuca sativa)
萸	used in 茱萸[zhu1 yu2]
萹	Taiwan pr. [pian1]
萹蓄	knotgrass (Polygonum aviculare)
萻	small Buddhist temple
萼	calyx of a flower
落	to leave out; to be missing; to leave behind or forget to bring
落下	to fall; to drop; to land (of projectile)
落井下石	to throw stones at sb who has fallen down a well (idiom)
落伍	to fall behind the ranks; to be outdated
落俗	to show poor taste
落價	(coll.) to fall or drop in price; to go down in price
落入	to fall into
落入法網	to fall into the net of justice (idiom); finally arrested
落單	to be on one's own; to be left alone; to be left out
落土	(of seeds etc) to fall to the ground; (of the sun or moon) to set
落地	to fall to the ground; to be set on the ground; to reach to the ground
落地扇	pedestal fan; stand fan
落地燈	floor lamp
落地生根	air plant (Bryophyllum pinnatum); to put down roots
落地窗	floor-to-ceiling window; French window
落地簽	landing visa; visa on arrival
落地鼓	floor tom (drum kit component)
落坐	to sit down
落埋怨	to get blamed
落基山	Rocky Mountains in West US and Canada
落塵	dust fall; fallout (volcanic, nuclear etc); particulate matter
落子	to place a stone on the board (in Go)
落寞	lonely; desolate
落實	practical; workable; to implement
落差	drop in elevation; (fig.) gap (in wages, expectations etc); disparity
落幕	the curtain drops; the end of the show
落座	to sit down; to take a seat
落後	to fall behind; to lag (in technology etc); backward
落得	ending up as; leading to; resulting in
落忍	(coll.) (usu. in the negative) to be able to bear (doing sth); to feel it is acceptable
落成	to complete a construction project
落戶	to settle; to set up home
落托	down and out; in dire straits; unrestrained
落拓	down and out; in dire straits; unrestrained
落拓不羈	(idiom) unconventional; uninhibited; free-spirited
落敗	to suffer a defeat; to fail; to fall behind
落於下風	to be at a disadvantage
落日	setting sun
落枕	to have a stiff neck after sleeping; (of the head) to touch the pillow
落棧	to make a rest stop at a hotel; to put sth into storage
落榜	to fail the imperial exams; to flunk
落槌	(of an auctioneer) to bring down the gavel; to conclude an auction sale
落款	inscription with name, date, or short sentence, on a painting, gift, letter etc
落水	to fall into water; to sink; overboard
落水狗上岸	like a dog who fell in the river and climbs out—shaking all over
落水管	drainpipe; water spout
落汗	to stop sweating
落泊	down and out; in dire straits; unrestrained
落淚	to shed tears; to weep
落湯雞	a person who looks drenched and bedraggled; like a drowned rat
落潮	(of a tide) to ebb or go out
落炕	to be laid up in bed with illness
落石	falling stone
落空	to fail to achieve something; to be fruitless
落第	to fail an exam
落筆	to put pen to paper; to start to write or draw
落籍	to settle in (a place); to take up permanent residence
落網	(of a bird, fish etc) to be caught in a net
落腳	to stay for a time; to stop over; to lodge
落色	to fade; to discolor; also pr. [luo4 se4]
落花有意，流水無情	lit. the falling flowers are yearning for love, but the heartless brook ripples on (idiom)
落花流水	to be in a sorry state; to be utterly defeated
落花生	peanut (the plant)
落草	to take to the woods to become an outlaw
落草為寇	(idiom) to take to the woods to become an outlaw
落荒而逃	to flee in defeat; to bolt
落落大方	(of one's conduct, speech etc) natural and unrestrained
落落寡交	aloof and as a result friendless (idiom)
落落寡合	aloof; standoffish; unsociable
落落寡歡	melancholy; unhappy
落落難合	a loner; someone who does not easily get along with others
落葉	dead leaves; to lose leaves (of plants); deciduous
落葉劑	defoliant
落葉喬木	deciduous tree
落葉層	leaf litter
落葉松	larch tree (Pinus larix); deciduous pine tree
落葉植物	deciduous plant; deciduous vegetation
落葉歸根	Getting Home, 2007 PRC comedy-drama film directed by 張揚|张扬[Zhang1 Yang2], starring 趙本山|赵本山[Zhao4 Ben3 shan1]
落葬	to bury the dead
落袋為安	to take profits and lock in one's gains
落跑	to run away; to escape
落車	(HK) to get out of a vehicle; to get off a bus, train etc
落選	to fail to be chosen (or elected); to lose an election
落鎖	(of a gate, vehicle etc) to lock; to engage the lock
落難	to meet with misfortune; to fall into dire straits
落雨	(dialect) to rain
落雪	(literary or dialectal) to snow; (literary) fallen snow; settled snow
落雷	lightning bolt; lightning strike
落馬	(lit.) to fall from a horse; (fig.) to suffer a setback
落馬洲	Lok Ma Chau (place in Hong Kong)
落魄	down and out; in dire straits; unrestrained
葄	straw cushion; pillow
葆	dense foliage; to cover
葇	Elsholtria paltrini
葇荑花序	catkin (botany)
葉	leaf; page; lobe
葉偉文	alias of 葉偉民|叶伟民[Ye4 Wei3 min2]
葉偉民	Raymond YIP Wai-Man, Hong Kong film director (debut as director: 1994)
葉克膜	(loanword) ECMO; extracorporeal membrane oxygenation
葉公好龍	lit. Lord Ye's passion for dragons (idiom)
葉利欽	Yeltsin (name)
葉卡捷琳堡	Yekaterinburg (Russian city, also known as Ekaterinburg or Sverdlovsk)
葉卡捷琳娜	Yekaterina or Ekaterina (name)
葉口蝠科	(zoology) New World leaf-nosed bats (Phyllostomidae)
葉問	Yip Man (1893-1972), martial arts practitioner, master of Bruce Lee
葉城縣	Kargilik, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
葉子	leaf (CL:片[pian4]); (slang) marijuana
葉子列	leaf arrangement; phyllotaxy (botany)
葉子板	(Tw) fender (automotive)
葉序	(botany) phyllotaxy; leaf arrangement
葉挺	Ye Ting (1896-1946), communist military leader
葉插	to propagate from leaf cuttings
葉枕	(botany) pulvinus
葉柄	petiole; leafstalk
葉永烈	Ye Yonglie (1940-), popular science writer
葉江川	Ye Jiangchuan
葉爾羌河	Yarkant River in Xinjiang
葉片	blade (of propellor); vane; leaf
葉片狀	foliated; striated into thin leaves
葉瑟	Jesse (name)
葉禮庭	Michael Grant Ignatieff (1947-), leader of the Liberal Party of Canada
葉綠素	chlorophyll
葉綠體	chloroplast
葉縣	Ye County or Yexian, a county in Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
葉聖陶	Ye Shengtao (1894-1988), writer and editor, known esp. for children's books
葉脈	venation; pattern of veins on a leaf
葉芽	leaf bud
葉苔	liverwort (Jungermannia lanceolata)
葉菜	leaf vegetable; leafy greens
葉落歸根	a falling leaf returns to the roots (idiom); everything has its ancestral home
葉輪	turbine wheel
葉輪機械	turbomachine
葉選平	Ye Xuanping (1924-2019), former Governor of Guangdong 廣東|广东[Guang3 dong1]
葉酸	folic acid
葉里溫	Yerevan, capital of Armenia (Tw)
葉門	Yemen (Tw)
葉集區	Yeji, a district of Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
葉面	leaf surface
葉鞘	(botany) leaf sheath
葉黃素	lutein (biochemistry)
葉鼻蝠	leaf-nosed bat
葍	weeds
葎	Humulus japonicus
葎草	(botany) Japanese hop (Humulus japonicus)
葑	turnip
葒	used in 葒草|荭草[hong2 cao3]
葒草	(botany) Persicaria orientalis
葖	radish; daikon; Taiwan pr. [tu2]
著	aspect particle indicating action in progress or ongoing state
著三不著兩	scatter-brained; thoughtless
著作	to write; literary work; book
著作權	copyright
著作等身	(idiom) (of an author) prolific
著力	to put effort into sth; to try really hard
著勁	to put effort into sth; to try really hard
著勁兒	to put effort into sth; to try really hard
著名	famous; noted; well-known
著呢	comes at the end of the sentence to indicate a strong degree; quite
著地	to land; to touch the ground; also pr. [zhuo2 di4]
著墨	to describe (in writing, applying ink)
著實	truly; indeed; severely
著床	to lie down on a bed
著忙	to rush; in a hurry; to worry about being late
著急	to worry; to feel anxious
著惱	to be enraged
著想	to give thought (to others); to consider (other people's needs)
著意	to act with diligent care
著慌	alarmed; panicking
著手	to put one's hand to it; to start out on a task; to set out
著手成春	lit. set out and it becomes spring (idiom); to effect a miracle cure (of medical operation)
著數	move (in chess, on stage, in martial arts); gambit; trick
著書	to write a book
著書立說	to write a book advancing one's theory (idiom)
著棋	to play chess
著法	move (in chess or martial arts)
著涼	to catch cold; Taiwan pr. [zhao1 liang2]
著火	to catch fire
著火點	ignition point (temperature); combustion point
著然	really; indeed
著眼	to have one's eyes on (a goal); having sth in mind; to concentrate
著眼點	place of interest; a place one has one's eye on
著稱	to be widely known as
著稱於世	world-renowned
著筆	to put pen to paper
著緊	urgent; in a great hurry; in intimate relationship with sb
著色	to apply color; to color; to paint
著色書	a coloring book
著花	to blossom; to come to flower; to be in bloom
著落	whereabouts; place to settle; reliable source (of funds etc)
著著失敗	to fail at every step of the way; Taiwan pr. [zhuo2zhuo2-shi1bai4]
著處	everywhere
著衣	to get dressed
著裝	to dress; dress; clothes
著述	writing; to write; to compile
著迷	to be fascinated; to be captivated
著道兒	to be fooled; to be taken in (by a ruse)
著邊	relevant; to the point
著重	to put emphasis on; to stress
著重號	Chinese underdot (punct. used for emphasis, sim. to Western italics)
著錄	to record; to put down in writing
著陸	landing; touchdown; to land
著陸場	landing site
著陸點	landing site
著魔	obsessed; bewitched; enchanted
葚	used in 桑葚[sang1 shen4]; also pr. [ren4]
葛	kudzu (Pueraria lobata); hemp cloth
葛優	Ge You (1957-), Chinese actor
葛巾	hemp headcloth
葛布	hemp cloth
葛摩	Comoros (Tw)
葛根	tuber of the kudzu vine (Pueraria lobata), used in Chinese medicine
葛法翁	Capernaum (biblical town on the Sea of Galilee)
葛洪	Ge Hong (283–363), Jin dynasty Daoist and alchemist, author of 抱朴子[Bao4 pu3 zi3]
葛洲壩	name of a place, Gezhouba Dam on the Changjiang River, in Sichuan
葛瑞格爾	Gregoire (name)
葛粉	starch of pueraria root; arrowroot flour
葛縷子	caraway; Persian cumin (Carum carvi)
葛萊美獎	(Tw) Grammy Award (US music industry award)
葛藤	tangle of vines; fig. complications
葛蘭素史克	GlaxoSmithKline, British pharmaceutical company
葛邏祿	Qarluq or Karluk nomadic tribe, a Turkic ethnic minority in ancient times
葜	used in 菝葜[ba2 qia1]
葡	Portugal; Portuguese; abbr. for 葡萄牙[Pu2 tao2 ya2]
葡式	Portuguese-style
葡撻	Portuguese-style egg tart (pastel de nata)
葡文	Portuguese (language)
葡糖	glucose C6H12O6; abbr. for 葡萄糖
葡糖胺	glucosamine; abbr. for 葡萄糖胺
葡萄	grape
葡萄乾	raisin; dried grape
葡萄乾兒	raisin
葡萄園	vineyard
葡萄彈	grapeshot
葡萄柚	grapefruit
葡萄樹	grapevine
葡萄汁	grape juice
葡萄牙	Portugal
葡萄牙人	Portuguese (person)
葡萄牙文	Portuguese (language)
葡萄牙語	Portuguese (language)
葡萄球菌	staphylococcus
葡萄球菌腸毒素	staphylococcal enterotoxin
葡萄糖	glucose C6H12O6
葡萄糖胺	glucosamine (C6H13NO5); also written 氨基葡萄糖
葡萄紫	grayish purple color
葡萄胸鴨	(bird species of China) American wigeon (Anas americana)
葡萄藤	grapevine (botany)
葡萄語	Portuguese (language)
葡萄酒	(grape) wine
葡語	Portuguese (language)
董	to supervise; to direct; director
董事	board member
董事會	board of directors
董事長	chairman of the board of directors
董仲舒	Dong Zhongshu (179-104 BC), philosopher influential in establishing Confucianism as the established system of values of former Han dynasty
董卓	Dong Zhuo (-192), top general of late Han, usurped power in 189, murdered empress dowager and child emperor, killed in 192 by Lü Bu 呂布|吕布
董奉	Dong Feng, doctor during Three Kingdoms period, famous for refusing fees and requesting that his patients plant apricot trees instead
董座	(Tw) chairman (of a board of directors)
董建華	Tung Chee-hwa (1937-), Hong Kong entrepreneur and politician, chief executive 1997-2005
董必武	Dong Biwu (1886-1975), one of the founders of the Chinese communist party
董陽孜	Grace Tong (Tong Yangtze) (1942-), Taiwanese calligrapher
董雞	(bird species of China) watercock (Gallicrex cinerea)
葤	(dialect) to wrap with straw
葥	Rubus palmatus
葦	(bound form) reed
葦席	reed mat
葦箔	reed matting; reed screen
葦鵐	(bird species of China) Pallas's reed bunting (Emberiza pallasi)
葧	Heleocharis plantaginea
葩	corolla of flower
葫	used in 葫蘆|葫芦[hu2 lu5]
葫蘆	calabash or bottle gourd (Lagenaria siceraria); hoist
葫蘆島市	Huludao, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
葫蘆巴	fenugreek
葫蘆絲	hulusi, aka cucurbit flute (a kind of free reed wind instrument)
葫蘆裡賣的是什麼藥	what has (he) got up (his) sleeve?; what's going on?
葬	to bury (the dead); to inter
葬儀	funeral; obsequies
葬埋	to bury
葬式	funeral
葬玉埋香	lit. burying jade and interring incense (idiom); funeral for a beautiful person
葬禮	burial; funeral
葬身	to bury a corpse; to be buried; (fig.) to die (at sea, in a fire etc)
葬身魚腹	lit. to be buried in the bellies of fish (idiom); fig. to drown
葬送	to hold a funeral procession and burial; to give sb a final send-off
葭	(literary) the young shoot of a reed
葯	leaf of the iris
葳	luxuriant
葳蕤	lush (vegetation); lethargic
葴	Physalis alkekengi
葵	used in the names of various herbaceous plants
葵扇	palm-leaf fan
葵涌	Kwai Chung (area in Hong Kong); Kwai Cheong
葵花	sunflower
葵花子	sunflower seeds
葵青	Kwai Tsing district of New Territories, Hong Kong
葵鼠	guinea pig
葶	Draba nemerosa bebe carpa
葷	strong-smelling vegetable (garlic etc)
葷段子	dirty joke
葷油	lard; animal fat
葷笑話	dirty jokes; jokes of a visceral nature
葷粥	Xunyu, an ethnic group of northern China in ancient times
葷素	meat and vegetable
葷腥	meat and fish
葷菜	non-vegetarian dish (including meat, fish, garlic, onion etc)
葷話	obscene speech; crude language
葷辛	very pungent and spicy vegetable dishes (a common Buddhist term)
葸	feel insecure; unhappy
葹	Xanthium strumarium
葺	to repair
葽	Polygala japonica; lush (grass)
蒂	stem (of fruit)
蒂森克虜伯	ThyssenKrupp
蒂芙尼	Tiffany & Co. (US luxury jewelry retailer)
蒄	(herb mentioned in ancient texts)
蒎	pinane
蒐	(literary) madder (Rubia cordifolia); (literary) to hunt during spring
蒐證	to gather evidence (in a criminal case)
蒐集	to gather; to collect
蒔	(literary) to grow; (literary) to transplant; Taiwan pr. [shi2]
蒔蘿	dill (herb, Anethum graveolens)
蒔蘿籽	dill seed
蒗	(herb); place name
蒙	Mongol ethnic group; abbr. for Mongolia 蒙古國|蒙古国[Meng3 gu3 guo2]
蒙代爾	Walter Mondale (1928-), US democratic politician, US vice-president 1977-1981 and ambassador to Japan 1993-1996
蒙兀國	Khamag Mongol, a 12th century Mongolic tribal confederation
蒙冤	to be wronged; to be subjected to an injustice
蒙受	to suffer; to sustain (loss)
蒙古	Mongolia; Mongol ethnic group
蒙古人	Mongol
蒙古人民共和國	People's Republic of Mongolia (from 1924)
蒙古包	yurt
蒙古國	Mongolia
蒙古大夫	(coll.) quack (doctor); charlatan
蒙古族	Mongol ethnic group
蒙古沙雀	(bird species of China) Mongolian finch (Bucanetes mongolicus)
蒙古沙鴴	(bird species of China) Siberian sand plover (Anarhynchus mongolus)
蒙古百靈	(bird species of China) Mongolian lark (Melanocorypha mongolica)
蒙古語	Mongolian (language)
蒙古里	(archaic) Mongol
蒙召	to be called by God
蒙哄	to deceive; to cheat
蒙哥馬利	Bernard Montgomery (Montie) (1887–1976), Second World War British field marshal
蒙嘉慧	Yoyo Mung (1975-), Hong Kong actress
蒙圈	(Internet slang) dazed; confused
蒙在鼓裡	lit. kept inside a drum (idiom); fig. completely in the dark
蒙地卡羅	Monte-Carlo (Monaco) (Tw)
蒙城縣	Mengcheng, a county in Bozhou City 亳州市[Bo2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
蒙塾	primary school
蒙大拿	Montana, US state
蒙太奇	(loanword) (film) montage
蒙娜麗莎	Mona Lisa
蒙山縣	Mengshan, a county in Wuzhou City 梧州市[Wu2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
蒙巴薩	Mombasa (city in Kenya)
蒙巴頓	Mountbatten (name, Anglicization of German Battenberg)
蒙帕納斯	Montparnasse (southeast Paris, 14ème arrondissement)
蒙師	primary school teacher
蒙彼利埃	Montpellier (French town)
蒙得維的亞	Montevideo, capital of Uruguay
蒙恩	to receive favor
蒙恬	Qin general Meng Tian (-210 BC), involved in 215 BC in fighting the Northern Xiongnu 匈奴 and building the great wall
蒙文	Mongolian language
蒙日	Gaspard Monge (1746-1818), French mathematician
蒙昧	uncultured; uncivilized; God-forsaken
蒙昧無知	benighted (idiom); ignorant
蒙求	(traditional title of first readers); primary education
蒙汗藥	knockout drops
蒙牛	China Mengniu Dairy Company Limited
蒙特內哥羅	Montenegro (Tw)
蒙特利爾	Montreal, city in Quebec, Canada
蒙特卡洛	Monte-Carlo (Monaco)
蒙特卡洛法	Monte Carlo method (math.)
蒙特卡羅方法	Monte Carlo method (math.)
蒙特塞拉特	Montserrat (Caribbean island, a British Overseas Territory)
蒙特婁	Montreal, city in Quebec, Canada (Tw)
蒙特維多	Montevideo, capital of Uruguay (Tw)
蒙特雷	Monterey
蒙皮	skin; covering
蒙眼	to have one's eyes covered; to be blindfolded
蒙羅維亞	Monrovia, capital of Liberia
蒙羞	to be shamed; to be humiliated
蒙自市	Mengzi, a county-level city in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
蒙茸	jumbled; fluffy
蒙蒙	drizzle (of rain or snow)
蒙蔽	to deceive; to hoodwink
蒙藥	traditional Mongolian medicine (or drug)
蒙蘢	dense (of foliage)
蒙覆	to cover
蒙語	Mongolian (language)
蒙陰縣	Mengyin, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
蒙難	to meet with disaster; killed; in the clutches of the enemy
蒙面	to cover one's face; to wear a mask; brazen; shameless
蒙館	primary school
蒜	garlic
蒜味	garlic odor
蒜泥	thoroughly mashed or minced garlic; garlic paste
蒜瓣	garlic clove
蒜米	minced garlic; peeled garlic clove
蒜糜	(dialect) garlic paste
蒜苗	garlic shoot; garlic sprouts
蒜茸鉗	garlic press
蒜蓉	thoroughly mashed or minced garlic; garlic paste
蒜薹	garlic shoots (cookery)
蒜頭	garlic bulb
蒞	to attend (an official function); to be present; to administer
蒞事者	local administrative official (in imperial China)
蒞任	to attend; to take office; to be present (in administrative capacity)
蒞會	to be present at a meeting
蒞止	to approach; to come close
蒞臨	to arrive (esp. of notable person)
蒞臨指導	(of a notable person etc) to honor with one's presence and offer guidance (idiom)
蒟	betel
蒟蒻	konjac, konnyaku or devil's tongue (Amorphophallus konjac), plant whose corms are used to make a stiff jelly (as a food)
蒡	used in 牛蒡[niu2 bang4]
蒢	hedysarum
蒦	(archaic) to measure
蒨	luxuriant growth
蒪	myoga ginger (Zingiber mioga)
蒭藁增二	same as 米拉, Mira (red giant star, Omicron Ceti), variable star with period of 330 days
蒯	a rush; scirpus cyperinus
蒲	refers to various monocotyledonous flowering plants including Acorus calamus and Typha orientalis
蒲公英	dandelion (Taraxacum mongolicum)
蒲劇	Puzhou opera of Shanxi Province
蒲包	cattail bag
蒲團	praying mat (Buddhism, made of woven cattail)
蒲城縣	Pucheng, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
蒲式耳	bushel (eight gallons)
蒲扇	palm-leaf fan; cattail-leaf fan
蒲松齡	Pu Songling (1640-1715), author of 聊齋志異|聊斋志异[Liao2 zhai1 Zhi4 yi4]
蒲桃	rose apple (Syzygium jambos)
蒲棒	spike or male flower of cattail (Typha orientalis)
蒲江縣	Pujiang, a county in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
蒲瓜	white flowered gourd or calabash (family Crescentia)
蒲甘	Bagan (Pagan), ancient capital of Myanmar (Burma)
蒲甘王朝	Bagan (Pagan) Dynasty of Myanmar (Burma), 1044-1287
蒲福風級	Beaufort scale for wind speed
蒲縣	Pu County or Puxian, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
蒲草箱	rush basket
蒲菜	edible rhizome of cattail 香蒲[xiang1 pu2]
蒲葵	Chinese fan palm (Livistona chinensis)
蒲鉾	kamaboko (Japanese steamed fish cake made from surimi)
蒲隆地	Burundi (Tw)
蒲鞋	straw sandals
蒴	pod; capsule
蒴果	(botany) capsule
蒸	to evaporate; (of cooking) to steam
蒸散	(plant) evapotranspiration
蒸氣	vapor; steam
蒸氣重整	steam reforming (chemistry)
蒸汽	steam
蒸汽壓路機	steamroller
蒸汽掛燙機	garment steamer
蒸汽機	steam engine
蒸汽機車	steam locomotive
蒸湘區	Zhengxiang, a district of Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
蒸發	to evaporate; (fig.) to vanish; to disappear
蒸發熱	latent heat of evaporation
蒸發空調	evaporative air conditioner; evaporative cooler
蒸籠	steamer basket (e.g. for dim sum)
蒸粗麥粉	couscous
蒸糕	steamed cake
蒸蒸日上	becoming more prosperous with each passing day
蒸鍋	steamer
蒸餃	steamed dumpling
蒸餾	to distill; distillation
蒸餾器	still (i.e. distilling apparatus)
蒸餾水	distilled water
蒸餾酒	distilled liquor; spirits
蒸騰	(of a vapor etc) to rise; to hang in the air
蒸騰作用	transpiration
蒹	reed
蒹葭倚玉樹	lit. reeds leaning on a jade tree (idiom)
蒺	Tribulus terrestris
蒺藜	(botany) caltrop; puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris); barbed object
蒻	young rush (Typha japonica), a kind of cattail
蒼	dark blue; deep green; ash-gray
蒼勁	(of a tree) old and strong
蒼南縣	Cangnan, a county in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
蒼天	firmament
蒼松翠柏	evergreen pine and cypress (idiom); steadfast nobility
蒼梧縣	Cangwu, a county in Wuzhou City 梧州市[Wu2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
蒼涼	desolate; bleak
蒼溪縣	Cangxi, a county in Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
蒼狗	(fig.) the unpredictable changeability of the world; bad omen
蒼生	(area where) vegetation grows; the common people
蒼白	pale; wan
蒼白無力	pale and feeble; powerless
蒼白色	pale; wan; sickly white
蒼眉蝗鶯	(bird species of China) Gray's grasshopper warbler (Helopsaltes fasciolatus)
蒼穹	the blue dome of heaven
蒼翠	verdant
蒼老	old; aged; (of calligraphy or painting) vigorous
蒼耳	Siberian cocklebur (botany)
蒼背山雀	(bird species of China) cinereous tit (Parus cinereus)
蒼茫	boundless; vast; hazy (distant horizon)
蒼莽	boundless
蒼蒼	ash gray; vast and hazy; flourishing
蒼蠅	housefly
蒼蠅不叮無縫蛋	lit. flies do not attack an intact egg (idiom)
蒼蠅座	Musca (constellation)
蒼蠅拍	flyswatter
蒼蠅老虎	(coll.) jumping spider (which pounces on houseflies, hence the Chinese name)
蒼術	black atractylodes rhizome (dried rhizome of any of several atractylodes species) (TCM)
蒼頭燕雀	(bird species of China) Eurasian chaffinch; common chaffinch (Fringilla coelebs)
蒼鬱	verdant and luxuriant
蒼鷹	(bird species of China) Eurasian goshawk (Accipiter gentilis)
蒼鷺	(bird species of China) grey heron (Ardea cinerea)
蒼黃	greenish yellow; sallow (pale or yellow complexion)
蒼龍	Blue Dragon, other name of the Azure Dragon 青龍|青龙 (the seven mansions of the east sky)
蒽	anthracene
蒽醌	anthraquinone (chemistry)
蒿	celery wormwood (Artemisia carvifolia); to give off; to weed
蓀	fragrant grass
蓁	abundant, luxuriant vegetation
蓂	used in 蓂莢|蓂荚[ming2 jia2]
蓂莢	(mythology) auspicious plant whose leaves were said to grow and fall in a cycle marking the days of the month
蓄	to store up; to grow (e.g. a beard); to entertain (ideas)
蓄勢待發	to wait for action after having accumulated power, energy etc
蓄意	deliberate; premeditated; malice
蓄水	water storage
蓄水池	water reservoir
蓄積	to accumulate; to store up
蓄謀	to premeditate; to plot
蓄電池	secondary (rechargeable) battery; accumulator; storage cell
蓄養	to raise (animals)
蓄鬚	to grow a beard
蓄鬚明志	to grow a beard as a symbol of one's determination (as Mei Lanfang 梅蘭芳|梅兰芳[Mei2 Lan2 fang1] growing a beard and refusing to perform for the Japanese)
蓆	woven mat (variant of 席[xi2])
蓆子	woven mat
蓇	used in 蓇葖[gu1 tu1]; Taiwan pr. [gu3]
蓇葖	(botany) follicle; flower bud
蓉	paste made by mashing beans or seeds etc; used in 芙蓉[fu2 rong2], lotus
蓉城	nickname for Chengdu 成都[Cheng2 du1]
蓊	luxuriant vegetation
蓋	lid; top; cover
蓋上	to cover
蓋世	unrivalled; matchless
蓋世太保	Gestapo
蓋亞那	Guyana, NE of South America (Tw)
蓋兒	cover; lid
蓋印	to affix a seal; to stamp (a document)
蓋台廣告	(Tw) slot advertisement; interstitial ad; splash ad
蓋子	cover; lid; shell
蓋層	cap rock
蓋州市	Gaizhou, a county-level city in Yingkou City 營口市|营口市[Ying2 kou3 Shi4], Liaoning
蓋帽	block (basketball)
蓋帽兒	to block a shot (basketball); (dialect) excellent; fantastic
蓋度	coverage (in botany)
蓋房	to build a house
蓋斑鬥魚	paradise fish (Macropodus opercularis)
蓋棺定論	don't pass judgment on a person's life until the lid is on the coffin (idiom)
蓋棺論定	don't pass judgment on a person's life until the lid is on the coffin (idiom)
蓋樓	to construct a building; (Internet slang) to reply to a thread
蓋澆飯	rice with meat and vegetables
蓋火鍋	to block a shot (basketball)
蓋然性	probability
蓋爾	Gaelic; Geier or Gayer (name)
蓋爾語	Gaelic (language)
蓋牌	to fold (poker)
蓋特納	Geithner (name)
蓋玻片	coverslip
蓋瓦	tiling (of roofs, floors, walls etc)
蓋碗	lidded teacup
蓋章	to affix a seal; to stamp (a document); to sign off on sth
蓋縣	Gai county in Liaoning
蓋茨	Gates (name)
蓋茨比	Gatsby
蓋茲	Gates (name)
蓋菜	leaf mustard
蓋門	a door-like or hinged cover (e.g. fuel door on a car, access hatch on a machine etc)
蓋革計數器	Geiger counter
蓋頭	cover; cap; topping
蓋飯	rice with meat and vegetables
蓌	to squat (in salutation)
蓍	yarrow (Achillea millefolium)
蓏	fruit of plants (not of trees)
蓐	mat; rushes
蓑	rain coat made of straw etc
蓑羽鶴	(bird species of China) demoiselle crane (Grus virgo)
蓑草	Chinese alpine rush (botany)
蓑衣	woven rush raincoat
蓒	a kind of smelly water plant
蓓	used in 蓓蕾[bei4 lei3]
蓓蕾	flower bud; young flower still tightly rolled up
蓔	a variety of grass
蓖	the castor-oil plant
蓖麻	castor-oil plant
蓖麻毒素	ricin (biochemistry)
蓖麻毒蛋白	ricin (biochemistry)
蓖麻籽	castor beans
蓧	bamboo basket
蓪	Aralia papyrifera
蓫	(weed); Phytolacca acinosa
蓬	fleabane (family Asteraceae); disheveled
蓬亂	matted (of straw or hair); unkempt; overgrown
蓬勃	vigorous; flourishing; full of vitality
蓬壺	fabled island in Eastern sea, abode of immortals
蓬安縣	Peng'an, a county in Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
蓬居	pauper's thatched hut
蓬心	narrow and bending; unkempt interior
蓬戶	thatched house; poor person's house; humble home
蓬戶甕牖	thatched house, broken urn windows (idiom); poor person's house
蓬散	loose; ruffled; disheveled
蓬江區	Pengjiang, a district of Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
蓬溪縣	Pengxi, a county in Suining City 遂寧市|遂宁市[Sui4 ning2 Shi4], Sichuan
蓬茸	lush; luxuriant (of grass or hair); soft lush hair
蓬萊	(Chinese mythology) Penglai, one of three fabled islands in the Bohai sea, where immortals were said to live; (by extension) fairyland
蓬萊仙境	Penglai, island of immortals; fairyland
蓬萊區	Penglai, a district of Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
蓬萊米	Taiwan round-grained glutinous rice (Japonica rice)
蓬蓬	luxuriant; abundant; (onom.) booming sound of wind
蓬蓽	poor person's house; humble home
蓬蓽生輝	(idiom) (humble expression) your presence brings light to my humble dwelling
蓬門篳戶	overgrown gate, wicker windows (idiom); poor person's house
蓬門蓽戶	overgrown gate, wicker windows (idiom); poor person's house
蓬頭垢面	messy hair and dirty face; bad appearance
蓬頭散髮	disheveled
蓬頭跣足	matted hair and bare feet; unkempt
蓬鬆	fluffy
蓮	lotus
蓮子	lotus seed
蓮步	(literary) light, airy steps (as if walking on lotuses); elegant gait of a woman
蓮池區	Lianchi, a district of Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
蓮湖區	Lianhu, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
蓮臺	lotus seat
蓮花	lotus flower (Nelumbo nucifera Gaertn, among others); water-lily
蓮花白	(dialect) cabbage
蓮花縣	Lianhua, a county in Pingxiang City 萍鄉市|萍乡市[Ping2 xiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
蓮花落	genre of folk song with accompaniment of bamboo clappers
蓮蓉	lotus seed paste
蓮蓉包	lotus seed bun
蓮蓬	lotus seed head
蓮蓬頭	showerhead
蓮藕	lotus root
蓮都區	Liandu, a district of Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
蓮霧	wax apple (a reddish pear-shaped fruit)
蓯	Boschniakia glabra
蓰	(grass); increase five fold
蓴	used in 蓴菜|莼菜[chun2 cai4]
蓴羹鱸膾	(idiom) the dishes from one's hometown; (idiom) homesickness
蓴菜	water shield (Brasenia schreberi), an edible water plant
蓴鱸之思	(idiom) homesickness
蓷	Leonurus macranthus
蓸	(a kind of herb)
蓺	skill; art
蓼	polygonum; smartweed
蓼藍	indigo dye; Polygonum tinctorium
蓽	bean; pulse
蓽門圭竇	wicker door, hole window (idiom); fig. wretched hovel
蓿	clover; lucerne; Taiwan pr. [su4]
蔀	(literary) to cover; to shelter
蔂	basket for carrying earth
蔃	cigarette (slang) (Cantonese)
蔇	luxuriant growth; extreme; reach
蔉	to bank up the roots of plants
蔊	Nasturtium montanum
蔋	dry; scorched
蔌	(literary) vegetables
蔎	Thea sinensis
蔑	to belittle; nothing
蔑稱	contemptuous term
蔑視	to loathe; to despise; contempt
蔓	(coll.) trailing or climbing stem; vine; Taiwan pr. [man4]
蔓延	to spread; to extend
蔓生	trailing plant; liana; creeper
蔓生植物	creeper; climbing plant; twiner
蔓草	creeper; climbing plant; twiner
蔓菁	turnip
蔓越橘	cranberry
蔓越莓	cranberry
蔔	used in 蘿蔔|萝卜[luo2 bo5]
蔗	sugar cane
蔗渣	bagasse (sugar cane waste)
蔗糖	cane sugar; sucrose
蔗糖素	sucralose
蔗農	sugar cane farmer
蔘	ginseng
蔙	(herb)
蔚	Artemisia japonica; luxuriant; resplendent
蔚成	to afford (a magnificent view etc)
蔚為大觀	to afford a magnificent sight (idiom); enchanting
蔚然成風	to have become common practice (idiom); to become a general trend
蔚縣	Yu County or Yuxian, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
蔚藍	azure; sky-blue
蔚起	(literary) to mushroom; to flourish
蔞	Arthemisia vulgaris; piper betel
蔡	surname Cai
蔡依林	Jolin Tsai (1980-), Taiwanese singer
蔡倫	Cai Lun (-121), the inventor of the papermaking process
蔡元培	Cai Yuanpei (1868-1940), educationist and politician, president of Peking University 1917-27
蔡司公司	Zeiss Company (Carl Zeiss AG, optical and opto-electronic industries. hq in Oberkochen, Germany)
蔡國強	Cai Guoqiang (1957-), contemporary Chinese artist working with firework displays and light shows
蔡志忠	Tsai Chih Chung (1948-), famous Taiwanese cartoonist specializing in retelling the Chinese classics
蔡李佛	Choy Li Fut (Chinese martial art)
蔡東藩	Cai Dongfan (1877-1945), historian and historical novelist
蔡甸區	Caidian, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
蔡英文	Tsai Ing-wen (1956–), Taiwanese DPP politician, president of the Republic of China 2016–2024
蔡襄	Cai Xiang (1012-1067), Song calligrapher
蔡鍔	Cai E (1882–1916), military leader who was a key figure in the establishment the National Protection Army 護國軍|护国军[Hu4 guo2 jun1], which in 1916 fought the forces of Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3], who had tried to reestablish the monarchy with himself as emperor
蔣	surname Jiang; Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石[Jiang3 Jie4 shi2]
蔣中正	Chiang Chung-cheng, adopted name of Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石[Jiang3 Jie4 shi2]
蔣介石	Chiang Kai-shek (1887-1975), military leader, head of the Nationalist government in China 1928-1949 and the government in exile on Taiwan 1950-1975
蔣公	honorific title for Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石[Jiang3 Jie4 shi2]
蔣士銓	Jiang Shiquan (1725-1784), Qing poet, one of Three great poets of the Qianlong era 乾嘉三大家
蔣桂戰爭	confrontation of 1929 between Chiang Kaishek and the Guangxi warlord faction
蔣經國	Chiang Ching-kuo (1910-1988), son of Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石, Guomindang politician, president of ROC 1978-1988
蔣緯國	Chiang Wei-kuo (1916-1997), adopted son of Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石
蔣雯麗	Jiang Wenli (1969-), award-winning PRC film actress
蔥	scallion; green onion
蔥屬	genus Allium
蔥嶺	old name for the Pamirs 帕米爾高原|帕米尔高原[Pa4 mi3 er3 Gao1 yuan2]
蔥抓餅	flaky scallion pancake (made with dough, not batter)
蔥油餅	scallion pancake
蔥白	the white part of a green onion or scallion
蔥綠	verdant
蔥翠	fresh green
蔥花	chopped green onions
蔥蔥	verdant and thick (foliage, grass etc)
蔥蘢	verdant and lush
蔥頭	onion
蔥鬱	verdant; lush green and full of life
蔥黃	yellow green
蔦	parasitic mistletoe (Loranthus parasiticus), esp. on the mulberry
蔦蘿	cypress vine
蔫	to fade; to wither; to wilt
蔫兒壞	apt to do sth nasty or devious in secret
蔫呼呼	weak and indecisive
蔫土匪	scoundrel with an honest demeanor
蔫屁	silent fart
蔫耷耷	listless; droopy
蔫頭耷腦	(idiom) (coll.) (of a flower etc) droopy; withered; (of a person) listless; dispirited
蔬	vegetables
蔬果	vegetables and fruits
蔬菜	vegetables
蔬食	vegetarian meal; vegetarian diet
蔭	(bound form) shade (of a tree)
蔭涼	shady and cool
蔭蔽	to be shaded or concealed by foliage; to conceal; hidden
蔯	a variety of artemisia
蔴	hemp (variant of 麻[ma2])
蔸	root and lower stem of certain plants
蔻	used in 豆蔻[dou4 kou4]
蔻丹	nail polish (loanword, from "Cutex")
蔻蔻	(loanword) cocoa
蔽	to cover; to shield; to screen
蔽芾	luxuriant; lush; young (plants)
蔽身處	shelter
蔾	chenopodiaceae
蕁	used in 蕁麻|荨麻[qian2 ma2]; also pr. [xun2]
蕁麻	nettle; also pr. [xun2ma2]
蕁麻疹	urticaria; nettle rash; hives
蕃	luxuriant; flourishing; to reproduce
蕆	to complete; to prepare
蕈	mold; mushroom
蕉	banana
蕉城區	Jiaocheng, a district of Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
蕉嶺縣	Jiaoling, a county in Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
蕉麻	abaca; Manila hemp
蕊	stamen; pistil
蕍	common water-plantain (Alisma plantago-aquatica)
蕎	used in 蕎麥|荞麦[qiao2 mai4]
蕎麥	buckwheat
蕑	Eupatorium chinensis
蕒	used in 苣蕒菜|苣荬菜[qu3 mai5 cai4]
蕓	used in 蕓薹|芸薹[yun2 tai2]
蕓薹	(botany) rape (Brassica rapa)
蕓薹子	rapeseed; seed of the rape plant
蕓薹屬	genus Brassica (including broccoli, cabbage, rapeseed etc)
蕔	a kind of grass (old)
蕕	Caryopteris divaricata
蕖	lotus
蕗	leucacene
蕘	fuel; grass
蕙	Coumarouna odorata
蕝	coarse grass used to show rank
蕞	to assemble; small
蕞爾	(literary) (of an area) very small
蕡	hemp seeds; luxurious; abundant
蕢	Amaranthus mangostanus
蕣	Hibiscus syriacus
蕤	fringe; overladen with flowers
蕨	Pteridium aquilinum; bracken
蕨菜	edible fern fronds (fiddleheads), esp. bracken fern (Pteridium aquilinum)
蕨類	(botany) fern; bracken; brake
蕩	to wash; to squander; to sweep away
蕩婦	prostitute; floozy; slut
蕩婦羞辱	to slut-shame
蕩氣回腸	heart-rending (drama, music, poem etc); deeply moving
蕩滌	to clean up
蕩漾	to ripple; to undulate
蕩然	vanished from the face of the earth; all gone; nothing left
蕩然無存	to obliterate completely; to vanish from the face of the earth
蕩舟	to row a boat
蕩蕩	fluttering
蕪	overgrown with weeds
蕪俚	coarse and vulgar
蕪劣	muddled and inferior (of writing)
蕪湖市	Wuhu, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
蕪穢	to be overgrown with weeds
蕪累	mixed-up and superfluous
蕪繁	convoluted
蕪菁	turnip
蕪菁甘藍	rutabaga (vegetable)
蕪詞	superfluous words
蕪鄙	muddled and limited (of writing)
蕪雜	miscellaneous; mixed and disorderly (of writing)
蕪駁	disorderly; mixed-up; confused
蕭	(old) Chinese mugwort; (bound form) desolate; dreary
蕭一山	Xiao Yishan (1902-1978), Modern historian of the Qing dynasty
蕭乾	Xiao Qian (1910-1999), Mongolian-born, Cambridge-educated journalist active during Second World War in Europe, subsequently famous author and translator
蕭伯納	George Bernard Shaw (1856-1950), Irish dramatist and writer
蕭何	Xiao He (-193 BC), famous strategist and chancellor, fought on Liu Bang's 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1] side during the Chu-Han Contention 楚漢戰爭|楚汉战争[Chu3 Han4 Zhan4 zheng1]
蕭子顯	Xiao Zixian (487-537), writer and historian of Liang of Southern Dynasties, compiler of History of Qi of the Southern dynasties 南齊書|南齐书[Nan2 Qi2 shu1]
蕭山區	Xiaoshan, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
蕭梁	Liang of the Southern dynasties (502-557)
蕭條	bleak; desolate; (economics) in a slump; sluggish; depressed
蕭然	desolate; empty
蕭牆	(literary) screen wall shielding an entrance in traditional Chinese architecture
蕭瑟	to rustle in the air; to rustle; to sough
蕭紅	Xiao Hong (1911-1942), prominent woman writer, originally from Heilongjiang
蕭索	bleak; desolate; melancholy
蕭縣	Xiao County or Xiaoxian, a county in Suzhou City 宿州市[Su4 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
蕭萬長	Vincent C. Siew (1939-), Taiwanese diplomat and Kuomintang politician, prime minister 1997-2000, vice president 2008-2012
蕭規曹隨	lit. Xiao's 蕭何|萧何[Xiao1 He2] governance followed by Cao 曹參|曹参[Cao2 Can1] (idiom)
蕭邦	(Tw) Frédéric Chopin (1810-1849), Polish pianist and composer
蕮	plantain (Plantago asiatica)
蕳	orchid (same as 蘭草|兰草); Eupatorium (same as 蕑)
蕶	withered (plant, herb etc)
蕷	used in 薯蕷|薯蓣[shu3 yu4]
蕸	water-lily leaves
蕹	water spinach or ong choy (Ipomoea aquatica), used as a vegetable in south China and southeast Asia
蕹菜	water spinach; kangkung
蕺	Houttuynia cordata
蕺菜	Houttuynia cordata
蕻	used in 雪裡蕻|雪里蕻[xue3 li3 hong2]; Taiwan pr. [hong4]
蕾	bud
蕾哈娜	Rihanna (1988-), Barbadian pop singer
蕾絲	(textiles) (loanword) lace
蕾絲花邊	lace border (loanword)
蕾絲邊	(slang) (loanword) lesbian
薀	hippuris or mare's tail
薁	used in 蘡薁|𮐨薁[ying1 yu4]
薃	Cyperus amuricus
薄	thin; cold in manner; indifferent
薄一波	Bo Yibo (1908-2007), ranking PRC politician, served on State Council from 1950s to 1980s as colleague of Deng Xiaoping
薄伽丘	Giovanni Boccaccio (1313-1375), Italian writer, poet, and humanist, author of Decameron 十日談|十日谈[Shi2 ri4 Tan2]
薄利	small profits
薄利多銷	small profit but rapid turnover
薄厚	meanness and generosity; intimacy and alienation
薄命	to be born under an unlucky star (usu. of women); to be born unlucky
薄地	barren land; poor soil
薄層	thin layer; thin slice; film
薄幸	fickle; inconstant person
薄弱	weak; frail
薄弱環節	weak link; loophole
薄待	mean treatment; indifference; meager hospitality
薄情	inconstant in love; fickle
薄技	meager skill; my poor talents (humble)
薄明	dim light; early dawn
薄暗	at dusk; evening
薄暮	dusk; twilight
薄曉	at dawn
薄板	thin plate; sheet; lamina
薄油層	oil sheet
薄海	vast area; all the way to the sea
薄烤餅	pancake
薄熙來	Bo Xilai (1949-), PRC politician, appointed to the Politburo in 2007, sentenced in 2013 to life imprisonment for corruption and misconduct
薄片	thin slice; thin section; flake
薄瑞光	Raymond Burghard (1945-), US diplomat and ambassador to Vietnam 2001-2004, chairman of American Institute in Taiwan from 2006
薄產	meager estate; small means
薄田	barren field; poor land
薄禮	my meager gift (humble)
薄紗	gauze (cloth)
薄紙	thin paper (tissue paper, onionskin etc)
薄綢	light silk; silk chiffon
薄胎瓷器	eggshell china
薄脆	crispy; thin and brittle; a crispy fried cracker
薄膜	membrane; film
薄荷	mint (plant); Taiwan pr. [bo4he2]
薄荷油	peppermint oil
薄荷糖	mint (confectionery)
薄荷腦	menthol
薄荷酮	menthone (chemistry)
薄荷醇	(chemistry) menthol
薄透鏡	thin lens (optics)
薄酒	(my inferior) wine (humble term used by a host)
薄酬	small reward (for work); meager remuneration
薄霧	mist; haze
薄面	my meager sensibilities; blushing face
薄餅	thin flat cake; pancake; pizza
薄養厚葬	to neglect one's parents but give them a rich funeral
薅	to weed; to grip or clutch
薅羊毛	to seek out discount vouchers, cashback offers etc and use them in making purchases
薆	to cover; to hide; to conceal
薇	Osmunda regalis, a species of fern; Taiwan pr. [wei2]
薇薇安	(name) Vivian; Vivien; Vivienne
薈	to flourish; luxuriant growth
薈萃	(of distinguished people or exquisite objects) to gather; to assemble
薉	weedy
薊	surname Ji; ancient Chinese city state near present-day Beijing
薊城	old name for Beijing 北京[Bei3 jing1]
薊馬	(zoology) thrips (order Thysanoptera); thunderbug
薌	aromatic herb used for seasoning
薌劇	variety of opera popular in southern Fujian and Taiwan
薌城區	Xiangcheng, a district of Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
薏仁	grains of Job's tears plant 薏苡[yi4 yi3]
薏米	grains of Job's tears plant 薏苡[yi4 yi3]
薏苡	Job's tears (Coix lacryma-jobi); adlay millet; Chinese pearl barley
薐	old name for spinach
薑	ginger
薑汁	ginger ale
薑還是老的辣	ginger gets spicier as it gets older (idiom); the older, the wiser
薑餅	gingerbread
薑黃	turmeric
薑黃色	ginger (color)
薔	used in 薔薇|蔷薇[qiang2 wei1]
薔薇	Japanese rose (Rosa multiflora)
薔薇十字團	the Rosicrucian order (masonic order)
薔薇花蕾	rosebud
薖	(archaic) broad; spacious; vast
薘	plantago major
薙	shave; to weed
薛	surname Xue; vassal state during the Zhou Dynasty (1046–256 BC)
薛仁貴	Xue Rengui (614-683) great Tang dynasty general
薛城區	Xuecheng, a district of Zaozhuang City 棗莊市|枣庄市[Zao3 zhuang1 Shi4], Shandong
薛定諤	Erwin Schrödinger (1887-1961), Austrian physicist
薛定諤方程	Schrödinger's wave equation
薛寶釵	Xue Baochai, female character in Dream of Red Mansions, married to Jia Baoyu 賈寶玉|贾宝玉
薛居正	Xue Juzheng (912-981), Song historian and compiler of History of the Five Dynasties between Tang and Song 舊五代史|旧五代史
薛福成	Xue Fucheng (1838-1894), Qing official and progressive political theorist
薛稷	Xue Ji (649-713), one of Four Great Calligraphers of early Tang 唐初四大家[Tang2 chu1 Si4 Da4 jia1]
薜	Ficus pumila
薟	used in 豨薟|豨莶[xi1 xian1]; Taiwan pr. [lian4]
薠	plant similar to coco-grass 莎草[suo1 cao3] (classical)
薢	woody climbing plant
薤	Allium bakeri; shallot; scallion
薦	to recommend; to offer sacrifice (arch.); grass
薦引	to introduce; to recommend
薦椎	(anatomy) sacral vertebra; sacrum
薦舉	to propose (for a job); to nominate; to recommend
薦言	to recommend (in words); to suggest
薦頭	employment agent (arch.); job broker
薦頭店	job agency (arch.); employment shop
薦骨	(anatomy) sacrum
薧	dried food
薨	death of a prince; swarming
薩	used in 菩薩|菩萨[pu2 sa4]; used in transliteration
薩丁尼亞島	Sardinia
薩克拉門托	Sacramento
薩克斯	sax; saxophone
薩克斯管	sax; saxophone
薩克斯風	(loanword) saxophone
薩克森州	Saxony, a federal state in eastern Germany, capital Dresden 德累斯頓|德累斯顿[De2 lei2 si1 dun4]
薩克洛夫	Sakharov (name)
薩克洛夫獎	Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought, awarded by the European Parliament annually since 1988
薩克管	sax; saxophone
薩克遜	Saxon
薩博	Saab
薩卡什維利	Mikheil Saakashvili (1967-), Georgian politician, president of Georgia 2004-2013
薩哈洛夫	Sakharov (Russian name)
薩哈羅夫	Andrei Sakharov (1921-1989), Russian nuclear scientist and dissident human rights activist
薩哈羅夫人權獎	the EU Sakharov Human Rights Prize
薩哈羅夫獎	Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought (awarded by EU since 1988)
薩哈諾夫	(Andrei) Sakharov
薩哈諾夫人權獎	the EU Sakharov prize for human rights
薩嘎縣	Saga, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
薩噶達娃節	Tibetan festival on 15th April marking Sakyamuni's birthday
薩巴德羅	Zapatero (name)
薩彥嶺	Sayan Mountains, on the border of Russia and Mongolia
薩德	THAAD (Terminal High Altitude Area Defense), US Army anti-ballistic missile system
薩德爾	Sadr (name)
薩德爾市	Sadr city (Shia township in East Bagdad)
薩拉丁	Saladin (c. 1138-1193)
薩拉戈薩	Zaragoza, Spain
薩拉曼卡	Salamanca, Spain
薩拉森帝國	Saracen Empire (medieval European name for Arab empire)
薩拉熱窩	Sarajevo, capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina
薩拉米	(loanword) salami
薩摩	Satsuma, the name of a former feudal domain in Japan, and of a former province, a battleship, a district, a peninsula etc
薩摩亞	Samoa
薩摩耶	Samoyed (dog)
薩摩耶犬	Samoyed (dog)
薩摩麟	Samotherium (early giraffe)
薩斯	SARS; Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
薩斯卡通	Saskatoon city, Saskatchewan, Canada
薩斯喀徹溫	Saskatchewan province, Canada
薩斯病	SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome)
薩格勒布	Zagreb, capital of Croatia
薩桑王朝	Sassanid Empire of Persia (c. 2nd-7th century AD)
薩滿	(loanword) shaman
薩滿教	Shamanism
薩爾	Saarland
薩爾圖區	Sartu, a district of Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
薩爾州	Saarland, state of Germany, capital Saarbrücken 薩爾布呂肯|萨尔布吕肯[Sa4 er3 bu4 lu:3 ken3]
薩爾布呂肯	Saarbrücken, capital of Saarland, Germany
薩爾普斯堡	Sarpsborg (city in Østfold, Norway)
薩爾溫江	Salween river, flowing from Tibet into Myanmar
薩爾滸之戰	Battle of Sarhu in 1619, in which the Manchus under Nurhaci 努爾哈赤|努尔哈赤[Nu3 er3 ha1 chi4] crushed four Ming armies
薩爾瓦多	El Salvador
薩爾科奇	Sarkozy (name); Nicolas Sarkozy (1955-), president of France 2007-2012
薩爾科齊	Nicolas Sarkozy (1955-), French UMP politician, President 2007-2012
薩爾茨堡	Salzburg
薩爾達	Zelda (in Legend of Zelda video game) (Tw, HK, Macau)
薩特	Jean-Paul Sartre (1905-1980), French existential philosopher and novelist
薩珊王朝	Sassanid Empire of Persia (c. 2nd-7th century AD)
薩瓦河	Sava River, flowing through Southeast Europe
薩科齊	Nicolas Sarkozy (1955-), French UMP politician, President 2007-2012
薩米人	the Sami people, indigenous people in northern Scandinavia
薩莉	Sally (name)
薩菲	Safi (Moroccan city on the Atlantic coast)
薩蒂	sati (illegal Hindu practice)
薩蘭斯克	Saransk, capital of the Republic of Mordovia, Russia
薩赫蛋糕	Sachertorte, Viennese chocolate cake
薩迦	Sa'gya town and county, Tibetan: Sa skya, in Shigatse prefecture, central Tibet
薩迦縣	Sa'gya, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
薩迪克	Sadiq or Sadik (name)
薩達姆	Saddam Hussein (1937–2006), president of Iraq 1979–2003
薩達姆·侯賽因	Saddam Hussein
薩達特	Anwar Al Sadat
薩那	Sana'a, capital of Yemen
薩里	Surrey (county in England)
薩里郡	Surrey (county in south England)
薩非王朝	Persian Safavid Dynasty 1501-1722
薩馬蘭奇	Juan Antonio Samaranch (1920-2010), Spanish Olympic official, president of International Olympic Committee 1980-2001
薩默塞特郡	Somerset County in southwest England
薪	(literary) firewood; fuel; (bound form) salary
薪俸	salary; pay
薪傳	(of knowledge, skill etc) to be passed on from teachers to students, one generation to another, abbr. for 薪盡火傳|薪尽火传[xin1 jin4 huo3 chuan2]
薪水	salary; wage
薪火相傳	lit. the flame of a burning piece of firewood passes on to the rest (idiom)
薪給	salary; wage
薪資	salary
薪酬	pay; remuneration; salary
薪金	salary; wage
薪餉	(old) (military and police) pay; wages; (Tw) salary
薯	potato; yam
薯條	french fries; french fried potatoes; chips
薯泥	mashed potato
薯片	fried potato chips
薯蓉	mashed potatoes
薯蕷	Chinese yam (Dioscorea polystachya)
薯餅	hash browns; croquette
薰	sweet-smelling grass; Coumarouna odorata; tonka beans
薰心	(of greed, lust etc) to dominate one's thoughts
薰蕕不同器	lit. fragrant herbs and foul herbs do not go into the same vessel (idiom)
薰衣草	lavender (genus Lavandula)
薰陶	to seep in; to influence; to nurture
薳	(arch.) type of grass
薴	limonene; used in 薺薴|荠苧[ji4 ning2]; (literary) tangled; in disarray
薴烯	(chemistry) limonene
薶	to make dirty; to soil
薷	used in 香薷[xiang1 ru2]
薸	duckweed
薹	Carex dispalatha
薹草	sedge
薹草屬	genus Carex
薺	used in 荸薺|荸荠[bi2 qi2]
薺菜	shepherd's purse (Capsella bursa-pastoris)
薺薴	(botany) Mosla grosseserrata; (botany) Mosla chinensis
薽	(grass); (orchid)
薾	luxuriant growth of flower
薿	luxuriant (of plants)
藁城區	Gaocheng, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
藁本	Ligusticum levisticum (Chinese lovage root); ligusticum root
藁草	hay; dried grass
藄	(fern)
藇	surname Xu
藉	(literary) cushion; mat; (literary) to put some padding underneath
藉口	to use as an excuse; on the pretext; excuse
藉此	using this as a pretext; thereby
藉由	by means of; through; by
藉著	by means of; through; with the help of
藉詞推搪	to make a lot of excuses
藋	Sambucu javinica
藍	blue; indigo plant
藍丁膠	Blu-tack (brand)
藍儂	(Tw) John Lennon (1940–1980), English singer, guitarist, and songwriter
藍光	Blu-ray (disc format)
藍光光盤	Blu-ray disk, Sony high definition DVD disk
藍八色鶇	(bird species of China) blue pitta (Hydrornis cyaneus)
藍喉仙鶲	(bird species of China) blue-throated blue flycatcher (Cyornis rubeculoides)
藍喉太陽鳥	(bird species of China) Mrs. Gould's sunbird (Aethopyga gouldiae)
藍喉擬啄木鳥	(bird species of China) blue-throated barbet (Psilopogon asiaticus)
藍喉歌鴝	(bird species of China) bluethroat (Luscinia svecica)
藍喉蜂虎	(bird species of China) blue-throated bee-eater (Merops viridis)
藍圖	blueprint
藍大翅鴝	(bird species of China) grandala (Grandala coelicolor)
藍天	blue sky
藍寶石	sapphire
藍屏死機	(computing) (of an operating system) to crash and display the "blue screen of death"
藍山縣	Lanshan, a county in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
藍巨星	blue giant star
藍星	the Blue Planet; planet Earth
藍晶	blue topaz; topaz (aluminum fluorosilicate)
藍本	blueprint
藍枕八色鶇	(bird species of China) blue-naped pitta (Hydrornis nipalensis)
藍枕花蜜鳥	(bird species of China) purple-naped spiderhunter (Kurochkinegramma hypogrammicum)
藍歌鴝	(bird species of China) Siberian blue robin (Larvivora cyane)
藍毗尼	Lumbini, Nepal, birthplace of Siddhartha Gautama 釋迦牟尼|释迦牟尼[Shi4 jia1 mou2 ni2] founder of Buddhism (also written 嵐毘尼|岚毗尼[Lan2 pi2 ni2], 臘伐尼|腊伐尼[La4 fa2 ni2], 林微尼[Lin2 wei1 ni2])
藍海	(neologism) an unexplored, as yet uncontested market (contrasted with 紅海|红海[hong2 hai3])
藍牙	Bluetooth
藍田種玉	a marriage made in heaven (idiom)
藍田縣	Lantian, a county in Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
藍皮書	an official report (e.g. governmental)
藍眉林鴝	(bird species of China) Himalayan bluetail (Tarsiger rufilatus)
藍短翅鶇	(bird species of China) white-browed shortwing (Brachypteryx montana)
藍磯鶇	(bird species of China) blue rock thrush (Monticola solitarius)
藍移	blue shift (astronomy)
藍籌股	blue chip stock
藍精靈	the Smurfs
藍紋奶酪	blue cheese
藍細菌	Cyanobacteria (blue-green algae)
藍綠菌	Cyanobacteria (blue-green algae)
藍綠藻	Cyanobacteria (blue-green algae)
藍綠鵲	(bird species of China) common green magpie (Cissa chinensis)
藍翅八色鳥	(bird species of China) blue-winged pitta (Pitta moluccensis)
藍翅噪鶥	(bird species of China) blue-winged laughingthrush (Trochalopteron squamatum)
藍翅希鶥	(bird species of China) blue-winged minla (Actinodura cyanouroptera)
藍翅葉鵯	(bird species of China) Javan leafbird (Chloropsis cochinchinensis)
藍翡翠	(bird species of China) black-capped kingfisher (Halcyon pileata)
藍耳擬啄木鳥	(bird species of China) blue-eared barbet (Psilopogon cyanotis)
藍耳病	porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS)
藍耳翠鳥	(bird species of China) blue-eared kingfisher (Alcedo meninting)
藍背八色鶇	(bird species of China) blue-rumped pitta (Hydrornis soror)
藍胸佛法僧	(bird species of China) European roller (Coracias garrulus)
藍胸秧雞	(bird species of China) slaty-breasted rail (Gallirallus striatus)
藍胸鶉	(bird species of China) king quail; blue-breasted quail (Synoicus chinensis)
藍腰短尾鸚鵡	(bird species of China) blue-rumped parrot (Psittinus cyanurus)
藍膚木	sumac (Rhus coriaria), east Mediterranean deciduous shrub with fruit used as spice
藍臉鰹鳥	(bird species of China) masked booby (Sula dactylatra)
藍舌病	blue-tongue (viral disease of livestock)
藍色	blue (color)
藍色劑	Agent Blue
藍色妖姬	blue rose
藍莓	blueberry
藍菌	Cyanobacteria (blue-green algae)
藍菌門	Cyanobacteria (phylum of blue-green algae)
藍藻	cyanobacterium (blue-green alga)
藍藻門	Cyanobacteria (phylum of blue-green algae)
藍調	blues (music)
藍金黃	blue, gold and yellow (BGY), the three methods of manipulation: information control (via media and the Internet), money (bribery etc) and sexual temptation (honey trap etc)
藍靛	indigo
藍領	blue-collar; blue-collar worker
藍頭紅尾鴝	(bird species of China) blue-capped redstart (Phoenicurus coeruleocephala)
藍額紅尾鴝	(bird species of China) blue-fronted redstart (Phoenicurus frontalis)
藍額長腳地鴝	(bird species of China) blue-fronted robin (Cinclidium frontale)
藍顏知己	close male friend; confidant
藍飾帶花	blue lace flower (Trachymene caerulea)
藍馬雞	(bird species of China) blue eared pheasant (Crossoptilon auritum)
藍鬚夜蜂虎	(bird species of China) blue-bearded bee-eater (Nyctyornis athertoni)
藍鯨	blue whale
藍鵐	(bird species of China) slaty bunting (Emberiza siemsseni)
藍鷳	(bird species of China) Swinhoe's pheasant (Lophura swinhoii)
藎	Arthraxon ciliare; loyal
藏	storehouse; depository; Buddhist or Taoist scripture
藏人	Tibetan (person)
藏傳佛教	Tibetan Buddhism
藏匿	to cover up; to conceal; to go into hiding
藏區	the Tibetan-inhabited areas of China
藏品	museum piece; collector's item; precious object
藏器待時	to conceal one's abilities and wait (idiom); to lie low and await the opportune moment
藏奸	to harbor evil intentions
藏家	collector
藏寳箱	treasure chest
藏寶圖	treasure map
藏拙	avoiding doing something that one is clumsy at to save face
藏掖	to try to cover up; hiding place
藏文	Tibetan script; Tibetan written language; Tibetan language
藏族	Tibetan ethnic group
藏族人	Tibetan (person)
藏書	to collect books; library collection
藏書票	bookplate
藏毛性疾病	pilonidal disease
藏污納垢	to hide dirt, to conceal corruption (idiom); to shelter evil people and accept wrongdoing
藏獒	Tibetan mastiff
藏獨	Tibetan Independence (movement); abbr. for 西藏獨立運動|西藏独立运动
藏私	(Tw) to withhold (knowledge, resources etc) out of reluctance to share
藏紅花	saffron (Crocus sativus)
藏經洞	the Library Cave, a sealed cave (Cave 17) in the Mogao Caves 莫高窟[Mo4 gao1 ku1], where thousands of manuscripts were discovered in 1900
藏羚	Tibetan antelope; Pantholops hodgsonii; chiru
藏羚羊	Tibetan antelope or Chiru (Pantholops hodgsonii)
藏茴香果	caraway
藏藏掖掖	to conceal
藏語	Tibetan language
藏象	hidden inner properties and their external manifestations (TCM)
藏貓兒	hide and seek
藏貓貓	hide and seek; peek-a-boo
藏蹤	to hide
藏身	to hide; to go into hiding; to take refuge
藏身之處	hiding place; hideout
藏身處	hiding place; hideout; shelter
藏躲	to hide; to conceal
藏鏡人	man behind the mirror; puppet master; string puller
藏雀	(bird species of China) Tibetan rosefinch (Carpodacus roborowskii)
藏雪雀	(bird species of China) Tibetan snowfinch (Montifringilla henrici)
藏雪雞	(bird species of China) Tibetan snowcock (Tetraogallus tibetanus)
藏青果	chebulic myrobalan (Terminalia chebula)
藏青色	navy blue
藏頭露尾	to hide the head and show the tail (idiom); to give a partial account
藏馬雞	(bird species of China) Tibetan eared pheasant (Crossoptilon harmani)
藏鵐	(bird species of China) Tibetan bunting (Emberiza koslowi)
藏黃雀	(bird species of China) Tibetan serin (Spinus thibetanus)
藏龍臥虎	lit. hidden dragon, crouching tiger (idiom)
藐	to despise; small
藐孤	small orphan
藐忽	to disregard
藐法	to disregard the law
藐藐	contemptuous (of manner); high and distant; mysterious
藐視	to despise; to look down on
藐視一切	to look down upon everything
藒車	a variety of aromatic herb used as a fragrance or bug repeller (old)
藕	root of lotus
藕斷絲連	lit. lotus roots may break, but the fiber remains joined (idiom); lovers part, but still long for one another
藘	madder
藙	Zanthoxylum ailanthoides
藚	Alisma plantago
藜	name of weed plant (fat hen, goosefoot, pigweed etc)
藜麥	quinoa
藝	skill; art
藝人	entertainer; performing artist; artisan; craftsman
藝伎	geisha (Japanese female entertainer); also written 藝妓|艺妓[yi4 ji4]
藝名	stage name (of an actor or actress)
藝圃	Garden of Cultivation in Suzhou, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
藝壇	art circles; art world
藝多不壓身	it's always good to have more skills (idiom)
藝妓	geisha (Japanese female entertainer); also written 藝伎|艺伎[yi4 ji4]
藝廊	(Tw) art gallery
藝校	abbr. for 藝術學校|艺术学校; art school
藝考	art school entrance examination (abbr. for 藝術考試|艺术考试[yi4 shu4 kao3 shi4])
藝能	artistic skill
藝能界	show business
藝術	art
藝術史	art history
藝術品	art piece; work of art
藝術學院	art institute; art and drama college
藝術家	artist
藝術片	art film; art house film
藝術節	arts festival
藝術造街	city precinct with a streetscape created by artists
藝術館	art gallery; museum of art
藝術體操	rhythmic gymnastics
藟	bud; creeper; bramble
藠頭	Chinese onion (Allium chinense)
藤	rattan; cane; vine
藤井	Fujii (Japanese surname)
藤原	Fujiwara (Japanese surname)
藤壺	barnacle (crustacean)
藤本	Fujimoto (Japanese surname)
藤本植物	vine plant
藤條	rattan
藤森	Fujimori (Japanese surname)
藤椅	rattan chair
藤椒	green Sichuan peppercorn, known for its citrus fragrance and sharp numbing flavor
藤澤	Fujisawa (Japanese surname and place name)
藤球	sepak takraw (sport)
藤田	Fujita (Japanese surname)
藤篋	wicker suitcase
藤縣	Teng County or Tengxian, a county in Wuzhou City 梧州市[Wu2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
藤菜	(dialect) see 空心菜[kong1 xin1 cai4]
藤蔓	trailing or climbing stem; vine; Taiwan pr. [teng2man4]
藤藤菜	(dialect) see 空心菜[kong1 xin1 cai4]
藤野	Fujino (Japanese surname)
藥	medicine; drug
藥丸	pill
藥代動力學	pharmacokinetics
藥典	pharmacopoeia
藥到病除	lit. the disease is cured the moment the medicine is taken (idiom)
藥劑	medicine; medicament; drug
藥劑士	druggist; pharmacist
藥劑師	pharmacist
藥動學	pharmacokinetics
藥品	medicaments; medicine; drug
藥商	druggist
藥妝	cosmeceuticals
藥妝店	drugstore; pharmacy (one that offers health, beauty, and wellness products in addition to medicines – a type of store popular in Japan, Taiwan and Hong Kong)
藥學	pharmacy (science of preparing medicines)
藥局	pharmacy; dispensary
藥師	pharmacist
藥師佛	Medicine Buddha (Sanskrit: Bhaisajyaguru)
藥師如來	Medicine Buddha (Sanskrit: Bhaisajyaguru)
藥師經	Healing sutra; Bhaisajyaguru sutra
藥店	pharmacy; drugstore
藥性	medicinal effect
藥房	pharmacy; drugstore; dispensary
藥效	medicinal effect
藥方	prescription
藥材	medicinal ingredient
藥棉	sterilized cotton (used for medical swabs)
藥檢	drugs test (e.g. on athletes)
藥水	medicine in liquid form; bottled medicine; lotion
藥流	medical abortion
藥渣	dregs of a decoction
藥片	a (medicine) pill or tablet
藥物	medicaments; pharmaceuticals; medication
藥物代謝動力學	pharmacokinetics
藥物學	pharmacology
藥物學家	pharmacologist
藥理	pharmacology
藥理學	pharmacology
藥瓶	medicine bottle
藥用	medicinal use; pharmaceutical
藥用價值	medicinal value
藥療	medication; herbal remedy
藥石無靈	(idiom) (of a sick person or disease) to be incurable
藥籤	medical swab
藥罐	pot for decocting herbal medicine
藥膏	ointment
藥膳	medicinal cuisine
藥苗	medicinal herb seedling
藥草	medicinal herb
藥蜀葵	marsh mallow (Althaea officinalis)
藥補	medicinal dietary supplement that helps build up one's health
藥補不如食補	the benefits of medicine are not as great as those of good nutrition
藥食同源	lit. food and medicine come from the same source (idiom)
藦	Metaplexis stauntoni
藨	used in the names of various berries
藨草	Schoenoplectus triqueter
藩	fence; hedge; (literary) screen; barrier; vassal state
藩國	feudatory; vassal state
藩屬	vassal state
藩庫	government repository
藩籬	hedge; fence; (fig.) barrier
藩鎮	lit. fence town; buffer region (between enemies)
藪	marsh; gathering place
藪澤	lakes and ponds
藪貓	serval (Leptailurus serval)
藭	used in 芎藭|芎䓖[xiong1 qiong2]
藴	to hold in store; to contain; to gather together
藶	Drabanemerosa hebecarpa
藹	friendly
藹然	amicable; amiable
藹藹	luxuriant (vegetation)
藺	juncus effusus
藺相如	Ling Xiangru (dates unknown, 3rd century BC), famous statesman of Zhao 趙國|赵国
藻	aquatic grasses; elegant
藻華	algal bloom
藻類	algae
藾	(fragrant labiate plant)
藿	Lophanthus rugosus; beans
藿香	wrinkled giant hyssop; Agastache rugosa (botany)
藿麻	(Sichuan dialect) nettle
蘀	fallen leaves and bark
蘁	to disobey; contrary; against
蘄	(herb); implore; pray
蘄春縣	Qichun, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
蘅	Asarum blumei (wild ginger plant)
蘅塘退士	assumed name of Sun Zhu 孫誅|孙诛[Sun1 Zhu1] (1711-1778), poet and compiler of Three Hundred Tang Poems 唐詩三百首|唐诗三百首[Tang2 shi1 San1 bai3 Shou3]
蘅蕪	Asarum blumei (ginger plant)
蘆	(bound form) reed
蘆山縣	Lushan, a county in Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
蘆席	reed mat
蘆柴棒	reed stem; (fig.) extremely skinny person
蘆根	reed rhizome (used in TCM)
蘆洞	Rodong or Nodong, series of North Korean medium-range missiles
蘆洲	Luzhou or Luchou city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
蘆洲市	Luzhou or Luchou city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
蘆淞區	Lusong, a district of Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
蘆溪縣	Luxi, a county in Pingxiang City 萍鄉市|萍乡市[Ping2 xiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
蘆笙	reed-pipe wind instrument
蘆筍	asparagus; edible young shoots of reeds
蘆管	reed pipe
蘆花	reed catkin; reed flower
蘆花黃雀	oriental greenfinch (Carduelis sinica)
蘆荻	reeds
蘆葦	reed
蘆葦蕩	reedy wetland
蘆葦鶯	(bird species of China) common reed warbler (Acrocephalus scirpaceus)
蘆薈	aloe vera
蘇	Perilla frutescens (Chinese basil or wild red basil); place name
蘇丹	(loanword) sultan
蘇仙區	Suxian, a district of Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
蘇伊士運河	Suez Canal
蘇佔區	Soviet-occupied area (of Eastern Europe etc)
蘇俄	Soviet Russia
蘇修	Soviet revisionism (abbr. for 蘇聯修正主義|苏联修正主义[Su1 lian2 xiu1 zheng4 zhu3 yi4])
蘇克雷	Sucre, constitutional capital of Bolivia
蘇共	Soviet Communist Party
蘇利南	Suriname, NE of South America (Tw)
蘇台德地區	Sudetenland
蘇合香	snowdrop bush (Styrax officinalis); gum storax, used in TCM
蘇哈托	Suharto (1921-2008), former Indonesian general, president of the Republic of Indonesia 1967-1998
蘇報案	Qing's 1903 suppression of revolutionary calls in newspaper 蘇報|苏报, leading to imprisonment of Zhang Taiyan 章太炎 and Zou Rong 鄒容|邹容
蘇姆蓋特	Sumgayit, city in Azerbaijan
蘇家屯區	Sujiatun, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
蘇富比	Sotheby's auction house
蘇寧電器	Suning Appliance (PRC electrical retailer)
蘇尼特右旗	Sonid Right banner in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
蘇尼特左旗	Sonid Left banner in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
蘇州大學	Suzhou or Soochow University (Suzhou, PRC since 1986)
蘇州市	Suzhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
蘇州河	Suzhou Creek (river in Shanghai)
蘇州碼子	Suzhou numerals, i.e. the ten numerals 〡,〢,〣,〤,〥,〦,〧,〨,〩,〸 nowadays mainly used in traditional trades such as Chinese medicine
蘇州話	Suzhou dialect, one of the main Wu dialects 吳語|吴语[Wu2 yu3]
蘇必利爾湖	Lake Superior, one of the Great Lakes 五大湖[Wu3 da4 hu2]
蘇打	(loanword) soda; (loanword) carbonated drink; soft drink
蘇打水	soda water; carbonated water
蘇打粉	baking soda
蘇打餅乾	soda biscuit; soda cracker; saltine
蘇拉威西	Sulawesi or Celebes (Indonesian Island)
蘇易簡	Su Yijian (958-997), Northern Song writer and poet
蘇曼殊	Su Manshu (1884-1918), Chinese writer, journalist, Buddhist monk, participant in the revolutionary movement
蘇木	sappan wood (Caesalpinia sappan), used in Chinese medicine
蘇杭	Suzhou 蘇州|苏州[Su1 zhou1] and Hangzhou 杭州[Hang2 zhou1]
蘇東坡	Su Dongpo, another name for Su Shi 蘇軾|苏轼 (1037-1101), northern Song writer and calligrapher
蘇枋	sappanwood (Caesalpinia sappan)
蘇枋木	sappan wood (Caesalpinia sappan), used in Chinese medicine
蘇格拉底	Socrates (469-399 BC), Greek philosopher
蘇格蘭	Scotland
蘇格蘭場	Scotland Yard
蘇格蘭女王瑪麗	Mary, Queen of Scots (1542-87)
蘇格蘭帽	bonnet
蘇格蘭摺耳貓	Scottish Fold
蘇格蘭牧羊犬	Scotch collie; rough collie
蘇步青	Su Buqing (1902-2003), Chinese mathematician
蘇武	Su Wu (140-60 BC), Han Dynasty diplomat and statesman, regarded as a model of courage and faithful service
蘇氨酸	threonine (Thr), an essential amino acid
蘇洵	Su Xun (1009-1066), Song essayist, one of the Three Su's 三蘇|三苏[San1 Su1] and also one of Eight Giants 唐宋八大家[Tang2 Song4 ba1 da4 jia1]
蘇爾	Sol (goddess)
蘇珊	Susan (name)
蘇珊·波伊爾	Susan Boyle (1961-), competitor in UK reality TV competition
蘇瓦	Suva, capital of Fiji
蘇生	to revive; to come back to life
蘇祿	old term for Sulawesi or Celebes 蘇拉威西|苏拉威西[Su1 la1 wei1 xi1]
蘇秦	Su Qin (340-284 BC), political strategist of the School of Diplomacy 縱橫家|纵横家[Zong4 heng2 jia1] during the Warring States Period (475-220 BC)
蘇維埃	Soviet (council)
蘇維埃俄國	Soviet Russia (1917-1991)
蘇維埃社會主義共和國聯盟	Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), 1922-1991
蘇繡	Suzhou embroidery, one of the four major traditional styles of Chinese embroidery (the other three being 湘繡|湘绣[Xiang1 xiu4], 粵繡|粤绣[Yue4 xiu4] and 蜀繡|蜀绣[Shu3 xiu4])
蘇美爾	Sumer (Šumer), one of the early civilizations of the Ancient Near East
蘇聯	Soviet Union, 1922-1991
蘇聯之友社	Soviet Union friendly society
蘇聯最高蘇維埃	Supreme Soviet
蘇胺酸	(Tw) threonine
蘇花公路	Suhua Highway, coastal road in northern Taiwan, built on the side of cliffs above the Pacific Ocean
蘇菜	Jiangsu cuisine
蘇菲	(name) Sophie; Sufi (Islamic mystic)
蘇萊曼	Suleiman (name)
蘇西洛	Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono (1949-), retired Indonesian general, president of the Republic of Indonesia 2004-2014
蘇貞昌	Su Tseng-chang (1947-), Taiwanese DPP politician, premier of the Republic of China (2019-)
蘇超	Scottish Premiership, the top division of professional football (soccer) in Scotland (abbr. for 蘇格蘭超級聯賽|苏格兰超级联赛[Su1 ge2 lan2 Chao1 ji2 Lian2 sai4])
蘇軾	Su Shi (1037-1101), aka Su Dongpo 蘇東坡|苏东坡[Su1 Dong1 po1], Song dynasty writer, calligrapher and public official, one of the Three Su's 三蘇|三苏[San1 Su1] and one of the Eight Giants of Tang and Song Prose 唐宋八大家[Tang2 Song4 Ba1 Da4 jia1]
蘇轍	Su Zhe (1039-1112), Song writer and politician, one of the Three Su's 三蘇|三苏[San1 Su1] and also one of the Eight Giants 唐宋八大家[Tang2 Song4 ba1 da4 jia1]
蘇迪曼杯	Sudirman Cup (world badminton team competition)
蘇里南	Suriname
蘇里南河	Suriname River
蘇金達	Sukinda, Indian city
蘇鐵	sago palm (Cycas revoluta)
蘇門答臘	Sumatra, one of the Indonesian islands
蘇門答臘島	Sumatra (one of the Indonesian islands)
蘇非主義	Sufism (Islamic mystic tradition)
蘇黎世	Zurich, Switzerland
蘇黎世聯邦理工學院	Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule (ETH) Zürich, a university
蘊	to accumulate; to hold in store; to contain
蘊含	to contain; to accumulate
蘊和	to contain (e.g. poem contains feelings); contained in
蘊涵	to contain; to accumulate; to embrace
蘊積	to coalesce; to accumulate
蘊結	latent (desire, feeling etc); bottled up
蘊聚	to contain; to accumulate; to hold concealed
蘊蓄	latent; hidden and not developed
蘊藉	implicit; restrained; to be imbued with
蘊藏	to hold in store; to contain (untapped reserves etc)
蘊藏量	reserves; amount still in store
蘋	clover fern (Marsilea quadrifolia)
蘋果	Apple (American tech company)
蘋果公司	Apple Inc.
蘋果手機	iPhone
蘋果核	apple core
蘋果梨	Asian pear; sand pear (Pyrus pyrifolia)
蘋果汁	apple juice
蘋果泥	apple sauce
蘋果派	apple pie
蘋果蠹蛾	codling moth (Cydia pomonella)
蘋果酒	cider
蘋果醬	apple sauce; apple jam
蘋果電腦	Apple computer; Mac; Macintosh
蘋果餡餅	apple pie
蘑	mushroom
蘑菇	mushroom; to pester; to dawdle
蘑菇湯	mushroom soup
蘑菇雲	mushroom cloud
蘖	new shoot growing from cut branch or stump
蘘	a kind of wild ginger
蘘荷	myoga ginger (Zingiber mioga)
蘚	moss; lichen; moss on damp walls
蘚苔	moss
蘝	liana; creeper
蘞	trailing plant; liana; creeper
蘡	used in 蘡薁|𮐨薁[ying1 yu4]
蘡薁	Vitis bryoniifolia
蘢	Polygonum posumbu
蘤	flower; blossom; also pr. [wei3]
蘧	Dianthus superbus
蘧然	(literary) to be pleasantly surprised
蘩	Artemisia stellariana
蘭	surname Lan; abbr. for Lanzhou 蘭州|兰州[Lan2 zhou1], Gansu
蘭交	close friendship; a meeting of minds
蘭克	Rank (name); Leopold von Ranke (1795-1886), important German historian
蘭博基尼	Lamborghini (Italian car manufacturer)
蘭因絮果	starts well but ends in separation (of marital relations)
蘭坪白族普米族自治縣	Lanping Bai and Pumi Autonomous County, in Nujiang Lisu Autonomous Prefecture 怒江傈僳族自治州[Nu4 jiang1 Li4 su4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
蘭姆	rum (beverage) (loanword)
蘭姆打	lambda (Greek letter Λλ)
蘭姆達	lambda (Greek letter Λλ)
蘭姆酒	rum (beverage) (loanword)
蘭學	Dutch studies (study of Europe and the world in premodern Japan)
蘭室	a lady's room (honorific)
蘭山區	Lanshan, a district of Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
蘭州大學	Lanzhou University
蘭州市	Lanzhou, prefecture-level city and capital of Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
蘭摧玉折	premature death of a budding talent
蘭斯	Reims (city in France)
蘭斯洛特	Lancelot (name)
蘭新	Lanzhou and Xinjiang
蘭新鐵路	Lanzhou-Xinjiang railway
蘭溪市	Lanxi, a county-level city in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
蘭特	Rand or Randt (name)
蘭玉	your son (honorific)
蘭科	Orchidaceae
蘭章	a beautiful speech or piece of writing
蘭考縣	Lankao, a county in Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
蘭舟	lit. boat made of lily magnolia wood; poetic term for boat
蘭艾同焚	lit. to burn both fragrant orchids and stinking weeds (idiom); fig. to destroy indiscriminately the noble and common
蘭花	cymbidium; orchid
蘭花指	hand gesture in traditional dances (joined thumb and middle finger, the rest extended)
蘭花豆	savory fried fava beans
蘭若	Buddhist temple (transliteration of Sanskrit "Aranyakah") (abbr. for 阿蘭若|阿兰若[a1 lan2 re3])
蘭蔻	Lancôme, French cosmetics brand
蘭西縣	Lanxi, a county in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
蘭言	intimate conversation
蘭譜	lit. directory of orchids
蘭辛	Lansing, capital of Michigan
蘭迪斯	Landis (name)
蘭鄭長成品油管道	Lanzhou-Zhengzhou-Changsha oil pipeline
蘭鄭長管道	Lanzhou-Zhengzhou-Changsha oil pipeline
蘭開夏郡	Lancashire (English county)
蘭開斯特	Lancaster
蘭閨	a lady's room (honorific)
蘭陵笑笑生	Lanling Xiaoxiaosheng, pseudonym of the Ming dynasty writer and author of the Golden Lotus 金瓶梅[Jin1 ping2 mei2]
蘭陵縣	Lanling, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
蘭麝	lit. orchids and musk; fig. sweet perfumes
蘵	Physalis angulata
蘸	to dip in (ink, sauce etc)
蘸火	to quench (a metal workpiece)
蘸破	to wake up due to noise
蘸醬	dipping sauce; to dip in sauce
蘺	red algae; Gracilaria, several species, some edible; Japanese ogonori
蘻	a kind of herb (old)
蘼	millet
蘼蕪	Gracilaria confervoides (a fragrant herb)
蘿	radish
蘿北縣	Luobei, a county in Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
蘿莉	a Lolita (young, cute girl)
蘿莉控	lolicon or rorikon (Japanese loanword)
蘿蔔	radish (Raphanus sativus), esp. daikon
蘿蔔快了不洗泥	when radishes are selling fast, one doesn't take the time to wash the soil off them (idiom)
蘿蔔白菜，各有所愛	(saying) one man's meat is another man's poison; to each his own
蘿蔔糕	radish cake (a type of dim sum, commonly called "turnip cake")
蘿蔔絲餅	shredded daikon pie
虀	fragment; salted vegetables; spices
虆	to entwine; creeper; bramble; (literary) basket for carrying soil
虉草	reed canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea)
虍	stripes of a tiger
虎	tiger
虎不拉	(dialect) shrike; Taiwan pr. [hu3 bu5 la1]
虎丘區	Huqiu, a district of Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
虎列拉	(loanword) cholera
虎口	tiger's den; dangerous place
虎口餘生	lit. to escape from the tiger's mouth (idiom)
虎子	tiger cub; brave young man
虎字頭	name of "tiger" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 141)
虎將	valiant general
虎尾春冰	lit. like stepping on a tiger's tail or spring ice (idiom)
虎尾蘭	snake plant aka mother-in-law's tongue (Dracaena trifasciata)
虎年	Year of the Tiger (e.g. 2010)
虎斑地鶇	(bird species of China) scaly thrush (Zoothera dauma)
虎斑蝶	common tiger butterfly (Danaus genutia)
虎斑鸚鵡	budgerigar (genus Psittacella, several species); budgie
虎林市	Hulin, a county-level city in Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
虎毒不食子	a tiger, though cruel, will not devour its cubs (idiom)
虎烈拉	(loanword) cholera
虎爪派	Fu Jow Pai (Tiger Claw Style), a southern Chinese martial art emphasizing tiger-claw techniques
虎父無犬子	lit. father a lion, son cannot be a dog (honorific); With a distinguished father such as you, the son is sure to do well.
虎牌	Tiger Brand (beer)
虎牙	(coll.) eye tooth (maxillary canine tooth)
虎獅獸	tigon or tiglon, hybrid cross between a male tiger and a lioness
虎皮鸚鵡	budgerigar
虎符	tiger tally (a two-piece object made in the shape of a tiger, used in ancient China as proof of authority. One half of a tally could be issued to a military officer and this would be matched with the other half when verification was required.)
虎紋伯勞	(bird species of China) tiger shrike (Lanius tigrinus)
虎背熊腰	back of a tiger and waist of a bear; tough and stocky build
虎虎	vigorous; formidable; strong
虎視眈眈	(lit.) to fix one's eyes on sth like a tiger watching its prey (idiom)
虎起臉	to take a fierce look
虎跳峽	Tiger Leaping Gorge on the Jinsha River 金沙江[Jin1 sha1 Jiang1] in Yunnan
虎踞龍盤	lit. where tigers crouch and dragons coil (idiom); fig. forbidding terrain
虎踞龍蟠	lit. where tigers crouch and dragons coil (idiom); fig. forbidding terrain
虎蹲砲	a short-barreled mortar; an ancient catapult
虎鉗	vise
虎門	the Bocca Tigris, a narrow strait in the Pearl River Delta, Guangdong
虎頭海鵰	(bird species of China) Steller's sea eagle (Haliaeetus pelagicus)
虎頭牌	tiger-head plaque (made of wood and mounted on the front of a yamen 衙門|衙门[ya2 men5] during the Qing dynasty as a symbol of authority)
虎頭蛇尾	lit. tiger's head, snake's tail (idiom); fig. a strong start but weak finish
虎頭蜂	hornet
虎骨	tiger bone (used in TCM)
虎鯨	orca; killer whale (Orcinus orca)
虐	(bound form) brutal; oppressive; harsh
虐待	to mistreat; to maltreat; to abuse
虐待狂	sadism; sadist
虐心	heartbreaking; tear-jerking
虐戀	painful love affair; sadomasochism
虐殺	to kill (or assault) sadistically
虒	amphibious animal with one horn
虓	roar of a tiger
虔	to act with reverence; reverent
虔信	piety; devotion (to a religion); pious (believer)
虔信主義	fideism; fundamentalism
虔信派	pious sect; fundamentalist faction
虔信者	pious believer; devotee; fundamentalist
虔敬	reverent
虔誠	pious; devout; sincere
處	(bound form) place; locality; (bound form) part; aspect
處世	to conduct oneself in society
處世之道	way of life; attitude; modus operandi
處世原則	a maxim; one's principles
處事	to handle affairs; to deal with matters
處事原則	a maxim; one's principles
處分	to discipline sb; to punish; disciplinary action
處刑	to sentence; to condemn
處在	to be situated at; to find oneself at
處堂燕雀	lit. a caged bird in a pavilion (idiom); fig. to lose vigilance by comfortable living
處境	situation (of a person)
處女	virgin; maiden
處女作	first publication; maiden work
處女座	Virgo (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
處女膜	hymen
處女航	maiden voyage
處子	(literary) virgin; maiden
處子秀	debut (by a male performer or sports player)
處心積慮	to plot actively (idiom); scheming; calculating
處所	place
處方	medical prescription; to write out a prescription
處方藥	prescription drug
處於	to be in (some state, position, or condition)
處暑	Chushu or End of Heat, 14th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 23rd August-7th September
處格	locative case
處死	an execution; to put sb to death
處決	to execute (a condemned criminal)
處治	to punish; to handle; to deal with (literary)
處理	to handle; to deal with; to punish
處理器	processor
處理者	handler (computing)
處理能力	processing capability; throughput
處男	virgin (male)
處級	(administrative) department-level
處置	to handle; to take care of; to punish
處罰	to penalize; to punish
處處	everywhere; in all respects
處警	(of police etc) to deal with an emergency incident
處變不驚	to remain calm in the face of events (idiom)
處長	department head; section chief
虖	to exhale; to call; scream of tiger
虛	emptiness; void; abstract theory or guiding principles
虛不受補	a person who is in poor health cannot handle sth so strong as a tonic
虛位以待	to reserve a seat; to leave a position vacant
虛假	false; phony; sham
虛偽	false; hypocritical; artificial
虛偽類真	false but apparently real
虛像	virtual image
虛名	false reputation
虛報	to misreport; fraudulent report
虛妄	fabricated
虛宮格	four-square box in which one practices writing a Chinese character
虛實	what is true and what is false; (to get to know) the real situation
虛己以聽	to listen to the ideas of others with an open mind (idiom)
虛席以待	to reserve a seat for sb (idiom)
虛幻	imaginary; illusory
虛度	to fritter away (one's time)
虛度光陰	to waste time on worthless activities
虛弱	weak; in poor health
虛張聲勢	(idiom) to bluff; to bluster; to make an empty show of strength
虛心	open-minded; humble
虛心使人進步，驕傲使人落後	modesty leads to progress, arrogance makes you fall behind (quote of Mao Zedong)
虛心好學	modest and studious (idiom)
虛情假意	false friendship; hypocritical show of affection
虛應故事	to go through the motions
虛懷若谷	receptive as an echoing canyon (idiom); modest and open-minded
虛掩	to partially obscure
虛損	(TCM) consumptive disease, chronic deficiency disorder due to impaired function of inner organs, deficiency of qi, blood, yin and yang
虛擬	to imagine; to make up; fictitious; theoretical; hypothetical
虛擬實境	virtual reality (Tw)
虛擬專用網絡	virtual private network (VPN)
虛擬機	virtual machine
虛擬現實	virtual reality
虛擬現實置標語言	virtual reality markup language (VRML) (computing)
虛擬環境	virtual environment
虛擬私人網絡	virtual private network (VPN)
虛擬網絡	virtual network
虛擬語氣	subjunctive mood (grammar)
虛擬連接	virtual connection
虛數	imaginary number
虛文	dead letter; rule no longer in force; empty formality
虛文浮禮	empty formality
虛星	imaginary star (in astrology)
虛有其表	looks impressive but is worthless (idiom); not as good as it looks
虛榮	vanity
虛榮心	vanity
虛構	to make up; fabrication; fictional
虛構小說	fiction
虛標	to falsely or exaggeratedly label (a product)
虛歲	one's age, according to the traditional Chinese method of reckoning (i.e. the number of Chinese calendar years in which one has lived) – In this system, a person's age at birth is one, and increases by one at the beginning of the first solar term 立春[Li4 chun1] each year, rather than on one's birthday.
虛汗	(TCM) sweating due to physical weakness
虛火	excess of internal heat due to poor general condition (TCM)
虛無	nothingness
虛無主義	nihilism
虛無假設	null hypothesis (statistics)
虛無縹緲	illusory; imaginary; fanciful
虛發	to miss the target (with a bullet or an arrow)
虛空	void; hollow; empty
虛空藏菩薩	Akasagarbha Bodhisattva
虛粒子	virtual particle
虛線	dotted line; dashed line; (math.) imaginary line
虛缺號	white square character ( □ ), used to represent a missing ideograph
虛職	nominal position
虛脫	to collapse (from dehydration or loss of blood); heat exhaustion
虛腕	empty wrist (method of painting)
虛與委蛇	(idiom) to feign civility
虛虛實實	hard to tell if it's real or sham
虛言	empty words; false words
虛詐	tricky and hypocritical
虛詞	(linguistics) function word
虛誇	to boast; to brag; boastful
虛謊	false
虛警	false alert
虛譽	imaginary reputation; empty fame
虛電路	virtual circuit; VC
虛頭	to play tricks; to deceive
虛頭巴腦	(coll.) all show and no substance
虛飄飄	light and airy; floating
虛驚	false alarm; panic rumor
虛驚一場	(idiom) a false alarm; a scare that turns out to be nothing
虜	prisoner of war; to capture; to take prisoner
虜獲	capture (people)
虞	(literary) to expect; to anticipate
虞世南	Yu Shinan (558-638), politician of Sui and early Tang periods, poet and calligrapher, one of Four Great Calligraphers of early Tang 唐初四大家[Tang2 chu1 Si4 Da4 jia1]
虞喜	Yu Xi, Chinese astronomer (c. 270-345), known for discovering the earth's precession
虞城縣	Yucheng, a county in Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
虞應龍	Yu Yinglong, Yuan dynasty scholar, collaborated on the geographical encyclopedia Dayuan Dayi Tongzhi 大元大一統誌|大元大一统志
虞翻	Yu Fan (164–233), Eastern Wu scholar, official, and commentator on the I Ching
虞舜	Yu Shun, one of Five legendary Emperors 五帝[wu3 di4]
號	(literary) to call out; to command; (bound form) bugle; trumpet
號令	an order (esp. army); bugle call expressing military order
號令如山	lit. order like a mountain; a military order is inviolable
號兵	bugler; trumpeter (military)
號叫	to howl; to yell
號召	to call; to appeal
號召力	to have the power to rally supporters
號哭	to bawl; to wail; to cry
號喪	to weep; to howl as if at a funeral
號外	(newspaper) extra; special number (of a periodical)
號子	work chant; prison cell; type
號手	trumpeter; military bugler
號數	number in a sequence; ordinal number; serial number
號旗	signaling flag
號曰	to be named; named
號牌	license plate; number plate
號砲	cannon used for signaling; signaling shot
號碼	number
號碼牌	number plate; car license plate
號稱	to be known as; to be nicknamed; to be purportedly
號筒	bugle
號脈	to feel sb's pulse
號衣	jacket worn esp. by soldiers in former times, with large insignia on the front and back indicating unit affiliation
號角	bugle horn
號誌	signal; sign (traffic control etc)
號音	bugle call
號頭	number; serial number
虡	bell pendant stand
虢	surname Guo
虣	cruel; violent
虧	to lose (money); to have a deficit; to be deficient; to treat unfairly
虧待	to treat sb unfairly
虧得	fortunately; luckily; (sarcastic) fancy that, how fortunate!
虧心	a guilty conscience
虧心事	shameful deed
虧折	to make a capital loss
虧損	deficit; (financial) loss
虧本	to make a loss
虧本出售	to sell at a loss
虧格	(math.) genus
虧欠	to have a deficit; to be in the red; to owe
虧產	shortfall in production
虧空	in debt; in the red; in deficit
虧缺	to be lacking; to fall short of; to wane
虧負	deficient; to let sb down; to cause sb suffering
虩	terrified
虯	young dragon with horns
虰蛵	less common word for dragonfly 蜻蜓
虱	louse
虱子多了不癢，債多了不愁	(lit.) when covered with lice, one doesn't feel the itching anymore, and when up to one's ears in debt, one ceases to worry about it (saying)
虱目魚	milkfish (Chanos chanos)
虷	worm
虸	used in 虸蚄[zi3 fang1]
虸蚄	armyworm
虹	rainbow
虹口區	Hongkou district, central Shanghai
虹吸	(lit. and fig.) to siphon
虹吸管	siphon
虹彩	iridescence; iris (of the eye)
虹彩病毒	iridovirus
虹橋	arched bridge
虹橋機場	Hongqiao Airport (Shanghai)
虹膜	iris (of an eye)
虹鱒	rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss)
虺	mythical venomous snake
虺虺	rumbling (of thunder etc)
虺蜥	venomous snake; fig. vicious person
虻	horsefly; gadfly
虼	used in 虼蚤[ge4 zao5]; used in 虼螂[ge4 lang2]
虼蚤	(coll.) flea
蚄	used in 虸蚄[zi3 fang1]
蚆	a kind of shell
蚈	(arch.) firefly
蚊	mosquito
蚊子	mosquito
蚊子再小也是肉	lit. even a mosquito, though tiny, provides some nourishment (idiom)
蚊子包	mosquito bite
蚊子館	(jocular) public building that has been lying idle (and is thus ideal for housing mosquitos) (Tw)
蚊帳	mosquito net
蚊蟲	mosquito
蚊香	mosquito-repellent incense or coil
蚋	(mosquito); Simulia lugubris; blackfly
蚌	abbr. for Bengbu prefecture-level City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
蚌埠市	Bengbu, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
蚌山區	Bengshan, a district of Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
蚌殼	clamshell
蚍	used in 蚍蜉[pi2 fu2]
蚍蜉	a type of large ant
蚍蜉撼大樹	lit. an ant trying to shake a big tree (idiom)
蚍蜉撼樹	(lit.) an ant trying to shake a tree (idiom)
蚓	used in 蚯蚓[qiu1 yin3]
蚔	green-frog
蚖	Protura (soil dwelling primitive hexapod); newt; triton
蚖蟲	Protura (soil dwelling primitive hexapod)
蚛	(literary) (of a worm or insect) to nibble; to bite; worm-eaten
蚜	aphis
蚜蟲	aphid
蚡	(mole)
蚣	used in 蜈蚣[wu2 gong1]
蚤	flea
蚨	(water-beetle); money
蚩	ignorant; worm
蚩尤	Chiyou, legendary tribal leader who was defeated and killed by the Yellow Emperor 黃帝|黄帝[Huang2 di4]
蚪	used in 蝌蚪[ke1 dou3]
蚯	used in 蚯蚓[qiu1 yin3]
蚯蚓	(zoology) earthworm
蚰蜒	house centipede
蚰蜒路	lit. centipede's path; fig. narrow winding road
蚱	grasshopper
蚱蜢	grasshopper
蚱蟲	grasshopper
蚲	rice weevil
蚳	ant eggs
蚴	larva
蚵	(Tw) oyster (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [ô])
蚵仔	oyster (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [ô-á])
蚵仔煎	(Tw) oyster omelette (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [ô-á-tsian])
蚶	small clam (Arca inflata)
蚶子	blood clam
蚹	scales on the belly of a snake, aiding locomotion; snail; to crawl
蚺	boa
蚺蛇	boa
蚻	Aphrophora martima
蚽	a kind of insect (old)
蚿	millipede
蛀	termite; to bore (of insects)
蛀牙	tooth decay; dental caries; decayed tooth; rotten tooth
蛀蝕	to corrupt; to erode
蛀蟲	insect that eats into wood, books, clothes etc; fig. vermin
蛁	Pomponia maculatiocollis
蛄	used in 蝲蛄[la4 gu3]; used in 蝲蝲蛄[la4 la4 gu3]
蛅	a caterpillar
蛆	maggot
蛆蟲	maggot
蛇	used in 委蛇[wei1 yi2]
蛇信	snake's tongue
蛇夫座	Ophiuchus (constellation)
蛇島	Shedao or Snake island in Bohai sea 渤海 off Lüshun 旅順|旅顺 on the tip of the Liaoning peninsula, small rocky island famous for snakes
蛇島蝮	Snake island viper (Gloydius shedaoensis), feeding on migrating birds
蛇年	Year of the Snake (e.g. 2001)
蛇形	S-shaped; serpentine; coiled like a snake
蛇果	Red Delicious (a sort of apple)
蛇毒	snake venom
蛇毒素	venin
蛇皮	snake skin
蛇皮果	salak (Salacca zalacca) (fruit)
蛇矛	ancient spear-like weapon with a wavy spearhead like a snake's body
蛇管	flexible hose
蛇精病	(slang) (pun on 神經病|神经病[shen2 jing1 bing4]) crazy person; nutjob
蛇紋岩	serpentine (geology)
蛇紋石	serpentine (geology)
蛇綠岩	ophiolite (geology)
蛇綠混雜	ophiolite melange (geology)
蛇綠混雜岩	ophiolite (geology)
蛇綠混雜岩帶	ophiolite belt (geology)
蛇膽	snake gall (used in TCM)
蛇莓	Indian strawberry (Potentilla indica)
蛇蒿	tarragon
蛇藨	Indian strawberry (Potentilla indica)
蛇蠍	(fig.) malevolent; treacherous
蛇蠍美人	beautiful but dangerous woman; femme fatale
蛇行	to creep; to zigzag; to meander
蛇足	lit. legs on a snake; sth superfluous
蛇頭	head of a snake; human smuggler
蛇鵰	(bird species of China) crested serpent eagle (Spilornis cheela)
蛇麻	hops (Humulus lupulus)
蛇麻草	hop (Humulus lupulus), climbing plant whose flower cones are used in brewing beer
蛇龍珠	Cabernet Gernischt (grape type)
蛉	sandfly
蛋	egg; oval-shaped thing
蛋包	omelet
蛋包飯	omurice, Japanese dish consisting of an omelet wrapped around fried rice and often topped with ketchup
蛋卷	egg roll
蛋品	egg products; egg-based products
蛋塔	egg tart
蛋奶凍	custard
蛋奶素	ovo-lacto vegetarian
蛋奶酥	soufflé
蛋撻	egg tart (colloquial pr. [dan4ta3])
蛋殼	eggshell
蛋氨酸	methionine (Met), an essential amino acid
蛋液	beaten eggs
蛋清	(coll.) egg white
蛋炒飯	egg fried rice (made by stir-frying cold cooked rice with eggs and vegetables)
蛋疼	(slang) ball-breaking; pain in the ass
蛋白	egg white; protein; albumen
蛋白光	opalescence
蛋白石	opal
蛋白粉	protein powder
蛋白素	albumin
蛋白腖	peptone (biochemistry)
蛋白質	protein
蛋白酶	protease
蛋糕	cake
蛋糕裙	layered skirt
蛋花湯	clear soup containing beaten egg and green leafy vegetable
蛋蛋	(coll.) balls (testicles)
蛋逼	(dialect) to talk nonsense; to chat idly
蛋酒	eggnog
蛋雞	laying hen
蛋餅	egg pancake (thin pancake rolled up with omelet inside, popular in Taiwan as a breakfast dish)
蛋黃	egg yolk
蛋黃素	lecithin (phospholipid found in egg yolk)
蛋黃醬	mayonnaise
蛌	cricket
蛐	used in 蛐蛐[qu1 qu5]; used in 蛐蟮[qu1 shan5]
蛐蛐	(dialect) cricket (insect); (slang) to whisper gossip behind sb's back
蛐蛐兒	erhua form of 蛐蛐[qu1 qu5]
蛐蟮	(coll.) earthworm
蛑	marine crab
蛓	(literary) caterpillar
蛔	roundworm; Ascaris lumbricoides
蛔蟲	roundworm; ascarid; (esp.) Ascaris lumbricoides, a human parasite
蛔蟲病	ascariasis, infection caused by the roundworm Ascaris lumbricoides
蛘	a weevil found in rice etc
蛙	frog
蛙人	frogman
蛙式	breaststroke (swimming)
蛙泳	breaststroke (swimming)
蛙鞋	(diving, snorkeling) fins; flippers
蛚	Cyrtoxiphus ritsemae
蛛	(bound form) spider
蛛形綱	Arachnids (class of arthropods)
蛛絲馬跡	lit. spider's thread and horse track; tiny hints (of a secret); traces
蛛網	spider web; cobweb
蛛蛛	(coll.) spider
蛜	woodlouse
蛜蝛	woodlouse; pill bug
蛞	used in 蛞螻|蛞蝼[kuo4 lou2]; used in 蛞蝓[kuo4 yu2]
蛞蝓	(zoology) slug
蛞螻	mole cricket (Gryllotalpa)
蛟	a legendary dragon with the ability to control rain and floods
蛟河市	Jiaohe, a county-level city in Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
蛟龍	legendary dragon with the ability to control rain and floods
蛡	(literary) honeycomb; beehive
蛣	beetle
蛤	(bound form) clam; used in 蛤蚧[ge2 jie4]
蛤蚌	clam
蛤蚧	tokay gecko (Gekko gecko), used in TCM
蛤蜊	clam
蛤蟆	frog; toad
蛤蟆夯	power-driven rammer or tamper
蛤蟆鏡	aviator sunglasses
蛤蟹	clams and crabs; tokay gecko (Gekko gecko)
蛤蠣	clam; same as 蛤蜊[ge2 li2]
蛩	anxious; grasshopper; a cricket
蛭	fluke; leech; hirudinea
蛭石	vermiculite
蛸	octopus; used in 蠨蛸|蟏蛸[xiao1 shao1] and 肖蛸[xiao1 shao1]
蛹	chrysalis; pupa
蛺蝶	nymphalid; butterfly
蛻	skin cast off during molting; exuvia; to pupate
蛻化	(of insects) to undergo metamorphosis; (fig.) to be transformed
蛻化變質	(idiom) to degenerate (morally); to become depraved
蛻殼	to exuviate; to molt
蛻皮	skin cast off during molting; exuvium; to pupate
蛻變	to transform; to morph; to degenerate
蛾	(bound form) moth
蛾子	moth
蛾摩拉	Gomorrah
蛾眉	(fig.) beautiful woman
蛾眉皓齒	beautiful eyebrow and white teeth (idiom); lovely young woman
蛾類	moth (family)
蜀	short name for Sichuan 四川[Si4 chuan1] province
蜀國	Sichuan; the state of Shu in Sichuan at different periods
蜀山區	Shushan, a district of Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
蜀漢	Shu Han (c. 200-263), Liu Bei's kingdom in Sichuan during the Three Kingdoms, claiming legitimacy as successor of Han
蜀犬吠日	lit. Sichuan dogs bark at the sun (idiom); fig. a simpleton will marvel at even the most common things
蜀相	the Prime Minister of Shu (i.e. Zhuge Liang 諸葛亮|诸葛亮[Zhu1 ge3 Liang4])
蜀繡	Sichuan embroidery, one of the four major traditional styles of Chinese embroidery (the other three being 蘇繡|苏绣[Su1 xiu4], 湘繡|湘绣[Xiang1 xiu4] and 粵繡|粤绣[Yue4 xiu4])
蜀葵	hollyhock (Alcea rosea)
蜀錦	brocade from Sichuan
蜂	bee; wasp
蜂乳	royal jelly
蜂后	queen bee
蜂子	(coll.) bee; wasp
蜂巢	honeycomb; beehive
蜂巢胃	reticulum (second stomach of ruminants); honeycomb tripe
蜂房	honeycomb; beehive
蜂擁	to swarm; to flock; to throng
蜂擁而至	to arrive in huge numbers; to flock there
蜂毒	wasp poison
蜂湧	to swarm; to flock
蜂王	queen bee
蜂王乳	royal jelly
蜂王漿	royal jelly
蜂王精	royal jelly
蜂皇漿	royal jelly
蜂窩	honeycomb; beehive
蜂窩煤	hexagonal household coal briquette
蜂窩組織	(physiology) areolar tissue; cellular tissue
蜂窩網絡	cellular network
蜂箱	beehive
蜂糕	sponge cake (light steamed flour or rice cake)
蜂群	bee colony; swarm
蜂聚	to swarm; to congregate in masses
蜂膠	propolis
蜂蜜	honey
蜂蜜棒	honey dipper
蜂蜜酒	mead
蜂螫	bee sting
蜂蠟	beeswax
蜂起	to swarm; to rise in masses
蜂農	beekeeper; apiculturist
蜂鳥	hummingbird
蜂鳴器	buzzer
蜃	giant clam
蜃景	mirage
蜅	crab
蜆	basket clam (clam of family Corbiculidae); (esp.) Corbicula leana 真蜆|真蚬[zhen1 xian3]
蜇	jellyfish
蜈	used in 蜈蚣[wu2 gong1]
蜈支洲島	Wuzhizhou Island, Hainan
蜈蚣	centipede
蜉	used in 蚍蜉[pi2 fu2]; used in 蜉蝣[fu2 you2]
蜉蝣	mayfly
蜊	clam
蜍	used in 蟾蜍[chan2 chu2]
蜎	larva of mosquito
蜑	Tanka people
蜑家	Tanka, boat-dwelling people of Guangdong, Guangxi, Fujian, Hainan, and Zhejiang provinces
蜒	slug; used in 蜿蜒[wan1 yan2]
蜒蚰	(dialect) a slug
蜘	used in 蜘蛛[zhi1 zhu1]
蜘蛛	spider
蜘蛛人	(coll.) rope access technician; industrial climber; (esp.) high-rise window washer
蜘蛛俠	Spider-Man, comic book superhero
蜘蛛星雲	Tarantula Nebula
蜘蛛痣	arterial spider
蜘蛛網	cobweb; spider web
蜘蛛類	arachnid
蜙	used in 蜙蝑[song1 xu1]
蜙蝑	katydid
蜚	(literary) to fly; (esp. of reputation, rumors etc) (fig.) to spread
蜚短流長	(idiom) to gossip about others; to spread gossip or rumors
蜚聲	(literary) to gain fame; to be renowned
蜚聲海外	(literary) to be renowned abroad; to gain fame overseas
蜚蠊	cockroach
蜚蠊科	Blattidae, family of about 550 species of cockroach
蜚語	rumor; unfounded gossip
蜛	Hydrophilus cognatus
蜜	honey
蜜囊	honey sac (bee anatomy)
蜜大腿	(coll.) curvaceous thighs (loanword from Korean)
蜜月	honeymoon
蜜月假期	honeymoon
蜜柑	mandarin orange; tangerine
蜜桃	honey peach; juicy peach
蜜桃臀	(coll.) peach butt; round, firm buttocks
蜜棗	candied jujube
蜜源	nectar source
蜜獾	honey badger (Mellivora capensis)
蜜穴	(coll.) vagina; pussy
蜜糖	honey
蜜罐	honey pot; fig. comfortable living conditions; privileged environment
蜜胺	melamine (loanword)
蜜蜂	bee; honeybee
蜜蜂房	beehive
蜜蠟	beeswax
蜜袋鼯	sugar glider (Petaurus breviceps)
蜜語	sweet words; sweet talk
蜜露	honeydew
蜜餞	food preserved in sugar or honey
蜞	used in 蟛蜞[peng2 qi2]
蜢	grasshopper
蜣	dung beetle
蜣螂	dung beetle
蜥	(bound form) lizard
蜥形綱	Sauropsida, class within Chordata containing reptiles
蜥臀目	Saurischia or lizard-hipped dinosaurs, order within superorder Dinosauria
蜥蜴	lizard
蜩	cicada
蜮	(Chinese mythology) creature that lives underwater and spits sand to make people ill
蜱	tick (zoology)
蜱咬病	tick-bite sickness
蜱蟲	tick (the parasitic arachnid)
蜴	used in 蜥蜴[xi1 yi4]
蜷	to curl up (like a scroll); to huddle; Melania libertina
蜷伏	to curl up; to lie with knees drawn up; to huddle up
蜷局	to curl up; to coil
蜷曲	twisted; coiled; curled
蜷縮	to curl up; to huddle; to cower
蜷臥	to curl up; to lie curled up
蜺	Japanese cicada
蜻蛉	damselfly; lacewing
蜻蛉目	Odonata, order consisting of about 6,000 species of dragonflies and damselflies
蜻蜓	dragonfly
蜻蜓撼石柱	lit. the dragon-fly shakes the stone tower (idiom); fig. to overestimate one's capabilities
蜻蜓目	Odonata, order consisting of about 6,000 species of dragonflies and damselflies
蜻蜓點水	lit. the dragonfly touches the water lightly
蜽	used in 蝄蜽[wang3 liang3]
蜾	used in 蜾蠃[guo3 luo3]
蜾蠃	potter wasp
蜿	used in 蜿蜒[wan1 yan2]
蜿蜒	(of a snake) to wriggle along
蝀	used in 螮蝀|䗖𬟽[di4 dong1]
蝃蝥	spider (old)
蝄	used in 蝄蜽[wang3 liang3]
蝌	used in 蝌蚪[ke1 dou3]
蝌蚪	tadpole
蝍	a centipede
蝏	used in 蜻蝏[qing1 ting2]
蝑	used in 蜙蝑[song1 xu1]
蝒	large, black cicada; locust
蝓	used in 蛞蝓[kuo4 yu2]
蝕	to nibble away at sth; to eat into; to erode
蝕刻	to etch; engraving
蝗	locust
蝗災	plague of locusts
蝗科	Acridoidea (family containing grasshoppers, crickets and locusts)
蝗蝻	locust nymph
蝗蟲	locust
蝘	Hemidactylus bowringii
蝙	used in 蝙蝠[bian1 fu2]
蝙蝠	(zoology) bat
蝙蝠俠	Batman, comic book superhero
蝝	locust larva without wings
蝟	(bound form) hedgehog
蝠	(bound form) bat
蝠鱝	manta ray (genus Mobula)
蝣	used in 蜉蝣[fu2 you2]
蝤	used in 蝤蠐|蝤蛴[qiu2 qi2]
蝤蠐	(literary) longhorn beetle larva
蝦	used in 蝦蟆|虾蟆[ha2 ma5]
蝦乾	dried shrimps
蝦仁	shrimp meat; shelled shrimp
蝦兵蟹將	shrimp soldiers and crab generals (in mythology or popular fiction, the army of the Dragon King of the Eastern Sea)
蝦夷	Emishi or Ebisu, ethnic group of ancient Japan, thought to be related to modern Ainus
蝦夷蔥	chive
蝦子	shrimp roe; shrimp eggs
蝦油	prawn sauce
蝦滑	smooth, uncooked shrimp paste made by mixing minced shrimp with starch and egg white, commonly added to hot pot
蝦爬子	mantis shrimp
蝦男	(slang) a guy who is like a prawn: yummy body, but not so appealing above the neck
蝦皮	small dried shrimp
蝦米	small shrimp; dried, shelled shrimps
蝦紅素	astaxanthin
蝦線	digestive tract of a shrimp; sand vein
蝦虎魚	goby (flat fish, Gobiidae)
蝦虎魚科	Gobiidae (suborder of perch)
蝦蛄	mantis shrimp
蝦醬	shrimp paste
蝦青素	astaxanthin
蝦餃	prawn dumplings
蝨	louse
蝨多不癢	(lit.) when covered with lice, one doesn't feel the itching anymore (idiom)
蝨子	louse (Pediculus humanus)
蝮	insect; poisonous snake (archaic)
蝮蛇	Siberian pit viper (Gloydius halys); pit viper
蝰	used in 蝰蛇[kui2 she2]
蝰蛇	forest or meadow viper (Vipera russelii siamensis or similar)
蝲	used in 蝲蛄[la4 gu3]; used in 蝲蝲蛄[la4 la4 gu3]
蝲蛄	crayfish
蝲蝲蛄	mole cricket
蝳蝐	hawksbill turtle
蝴	used in 蝴蝶[hu2 die2]
蝴蝶	butterfly
蝴蝶效應	butterfly effect (dynamical systems theory)
蝴蝶犬	papillon (lapdog with butterfly-like ears)
蝴蝶琴	same as yangqin 揚琴|扬琴, dulcimer
蝴蝶結	bow; bowknot
蝴蝶花	iris; Iris tectorum
蝴蝶蘭	moth orchid (genus Phalaenopsis)
蝴蝶酥	crispy short-crust pastry; mille-feuilles
蝴蝶鉸	hinge
蝴蝶領結	bow tie
蝶	(bound form) butterfly
蝶古巴特	(Tw) (loanword) decoupage
蝶形領帶	bow tie
蝶形領結	bow tie
蝶泳	butterfly stroke (swimming)
蝶竇	sphenoidal sinus
蝶蘭	Phalaenopsis (flower genus)
蝶變	(of a caterpillar etc) to metamorphose
蝶類	butterfly (family)
蝶骨	sphenoid bone (front of the temple)
蝸	snail; Taiwan pr. [gua1]
蝸居	humble abode; to live (in a tiny, cramped space)
蝸廬	humble abode
蝸旋	to spiral
蝸桿	worm (mechanical engineering)
蝸桿副	worm-gear pair; worm drive; worm and worm gear
蝸牛	snail; Taiwan pr. [gua1 niu2]
蝸窗	(anatomy) round window (one of the two openings from the middle ear into the inner ear)
蝸蜒	snail
蝸行	to advance at a snail's pace
蝸行牛步	lit. to crawl like a snail and plod along like an old ox (idiom)
蝻	locust nymph
蝽	bedbug
螂	used in 螞螂|蚂螂[ma1 lang2]; used in 蜣螂[qiang1 lang2] and 虼螂[ge4 lang2]
螃	used in 螃蟹[pang2 xie4]
螃蟹	crab
螄	snail
螅	used in 水螅[shui3 xi1]
螈	salamander; newt
螉䗥	parasitic wasp (of bovine and equine animals)
螋	used in 蠼螋[qu2 sou1]
融	to melt; to thaw; to blend
融入	to blend into; to integrate; to assimilate
融冰	(lit. or fig.) thawing
融化	to melt; to thaw; to dissolve
融匯	fusion; to combine as one
融合	a mixture; an amalgam; fusion
融合為一	to form a cohesive whole; to fuse together
融和	warm; agreeable
融媒體	converged media; integrated media
融安縣	Rong'an, a county in Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
融會	to blend; to integrate; to amalgamate
融會貫通	(idiom) to integrate knowledge from various sources into a deep and coherent understanding of a subject
融梗	(neologism, attested by 2018) to incorporate ideas or material from sb else's creative work in one's own work
融水苗族自治縣	Rongshui Miao Autonomous County, in Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
融洽	harmonious; friendly relations; on good terms with one another
融為一體	to fuse together (idiom); hypostatic union (religion)
融然	in harmony; happy together
融爐	a smelting furnace; fig. a melting pot
融融	in harmony; happy; warm relations
融解	to melt; molten; fig. to understand thoroughly
融資	financing
融通	to circulate; to flow (esp. capital); to intermingle
融雪	melting snow; a thaw
融雪天氣	a thaw
螒	Aulacophora femoralis
螓	small cicada with a square head
螗	variety of small cicada with a green back and a clear song (in ancient books)
螘	ant
螚	Eristalis tenax
螞	used in 螞蟥|蚂蟥[ma3 huang2]; used in 螞蟻|蚂蚁[ma3 yi3]
螞蚱	(dialect) locust; grasshopper
螞蚱也是肉	lit. even a locust provides some nourishment (idiom)
螞螂	dragonfly
螞蟥	leech
螞蟻	ant
螞蟻上樹	"ants climbing a tree", a Sichuan dish made with cellophane noodles 粉絲|粉丝[fen3 si1] and ground meat (so called because the particles of meat clinging to the noodles look like ants on the twigs of a tree)
螞蟻包	ant bite (swollen, itchy bump); anthill; ant mound; (metonym) ant nest
螞蟻窩	ant nest
螞蟻腰	(coll.) tiny waist
螞蟻金服	Ant Financial Services Group, an affiliate company of Alibaba 阿里巴巴[A1 li3 ba1 ba1]
螟	boring insect
螟蛉	green rice caterpillar or similar insect larva
螟蛉子	adopted son
螟蟲	boring insect
螠	echiuroid (spoon worm)
螢	firefly; glow-worm
螢光	Taiwan variant of 熒光|荧光[ying2 guang1]
螢光棒	Taiwan variant of 熒光棒|荧光棒[ying2 guang1 bang4]
螢光燈	Taiwan variant of 熒光燈|荧光灯[ying2 guang1 deng1]
螢光綠	bright green; chartreuse
螢幕	(Tw) screen (of a TV, computer etc)
螢幕保護程式	screensaver (Tw)
螢幕保護裝置	screensaver (Tw)
螢火	light of firefly; fairy light
螢火蟲	firefly; glowworm; lightning bug
螢焰	light of firefly; firefly
螢石	fluorite CaF2; fluorspar; fluor
螣	flying dragon
螫	(literary) (of a bee or spider etc) to sting or bite
螫中	(of a bee, jellyfish etc) to sting (sb)
螬	used in 蠐螬|蛴螬[qi2 cao2]
螭	dragon with horns not yet grown (in myth or heraldry)
螭首	hornless dragon head (used as ornamentation, esp. gargoyles)
螮	used in 螮蝀|䗖𬟽[di4 dong1]
螮蝀	(old) rainbow
螯	chela; nippers; claw; pincers (of crabs, lobsters, scorpions etc)
螯肢	chelicera
螯蝦	crayfish
螳	praying mantis
螳臂當車	(lit.) a mantis trying to stop a chariot (idiom)
螳螂	mantis; praying mantis
螳螂捕蟬，黃雀在後	(lit.) the mantis stalks the cicada, unaware of the siskin behind (idiom, from Daoist classic Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3])
螵	used in 螵蛸[piao1 xiao1]
螵蛸	ootheca, i.e. eggs in their capsule, of a praying mantis (used in TCM)
螺	spiral shell; snail; conch
螺刀	screwdriver
螺帽	nut (female component of nut and bolt)
螺旋	spiral; helix; screw
螺旋千斤頂	screw jack
螺旋形	spiral
螺旋曲面	spiral surface
螺旋槳	propeller
螺旋測微器	micrometer screw gauge; micrometer
螺旋粉	fusilli (corkscrew shaped pasta)
螺旋藻	spiral algae; spirulina (dietary supplement)
螺旋鉗	wrench
螺旋體	Spirochaetes, phylum of extremophile bacteria
螺旋麵	fusilli (pasta)
螺栓	bolt (male component of nut and bolt)
螺桿	screw
螺槳	propeller
螺母	nut (female component of nut and bolt)
螺紋	spiral pattern; whorl of fingerprint; thread of screw
螺絲	screw
螺絲刀	screwdriver
螺絲帽	nut (female component of nut and bolt)
螺絲母	nut (female component of nut and bolt)
螺絲粉	gemelli (corkscrew shaped pasta)
螺絲起子	screwdriver
螺絲釘	screw
螺絲鑽	auger; gimlet; screwdriver (cocktail)
螺線	spiral
螺線管	solenoid
螺號	conch; shell as horn for signaling
螺螄	river snail
螺螄粉	luosifen (rice noodles served in a broth made from river snails and pork bones, often seasoned with stinky fermented bamboo shoots)
螺距	pitch of spiral; pitch of screw
螺釘	screw
螺髻	spiral coil (in hairdressing)
螻蛄	mole cricket
螻蛄科	Gryllolaptaptidae family of burrowing insects of order Orthoptera
螻蟻	lit. mole cricket and ants; fig. tiny individuals with no power
螽	(grasshopper); Gompsocleis mikado
螽斯	katydid or long-horned grasshopper (family Tettigoniidae)
螽斯科	Tettigoniidae (katydids and crickets)
螽斯總科	Tettigonioidea (katydids and crickets)
螾	the earthworm
螿	cicada (Cosmopsaltria opalifera)
蟀	used in 蟋蟀[xi1 shuai4]
蟄	to hibernate
蟄伏	hibernation; living in seclusion
蟄居	to live in seclusion
蟄眠	to hibernate
蟄藏	to hibernate; to hide away
蟄蟲	dormant insect
蟅	locust; Chinese ground beetle (Eupolyphaga sinensis)
蟆	toad
蟈	small green cicada or frog (meaning unclear, possibly onom.)
蟈螽	insect of the Gampsocleis genus (grasshoppers and crickets)
蟈螽屬	Gampsocleis genus (grasshoppers and crickets)
蟈蟈	katydid; long-horned grasshopper
蟈蟈籠	cage for singing cicada
蟊	Spanish fly; grain-eating grub
蟊賊	insect that damages cereal crop seedlings; (lit. and fig.) vermin
蟋	used in 蟋蟀[xi1 shuai4]
蟋蟀	cricket (insect)
蟋蟀草	wire grass (Eleusine indica)
蟎	mite
蟎蟲	mite (zoology)
蟑	used in 蟑螂[zhang1 lang2]
蟑螂	cockroach
蟑螂屋	cockroach trap
蟒	python
蟒蛇	python; boa
蟒袍	official robe worn by ministers during the Ming 明 (1368-1644) and Qing 清 (1644-1911) dynasties
蟓	silkworm
蟛	used in 蟛蜞[peng2 qi2]
蟛蜞	crab of family Sesarmidae
蟜	surname Jiao
蟠	to coil
蟠尾絲蟲	Onchocerca volvulus, the filarial parasite worm causing "river blindness" or onchocerciasis, the second most common cause of blindness in humans
蟠尾絲蟲症	"river blindness" or onchocerciasis, the second most common cause of blindness in humans, caused by the filarial parasite worm Onchocerca volvulus
蟠桃	flat peach (aka Saturn peach or donut peach)
蟠龍	coiled dragon
蟢	used in 蟢子[xi3 zi5]
蟢子	long-jawed orb weaver; long-jawed spider (family Tetragnathidae)
蟣	nymph of louse
蟣子	louse egg; nit
蟥	horse-leech
蟨	Siberian jerboa
蟪	used in 蟪蛄[hui4 gu1]
蟪蛄	Platypleura kaempferi, a kind of cicada
蟪蛄不知春秋	"the short-lived cicada knows nothing of spring or autumn" (from the Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3]); (fig.) to have a limited perspective
蟬	cicada
蟬猴	(coll.) newly-emerged cicada nymph
蟬科	Cicadidae, homopterous insect family including cicada
蟬翼	cicada's wing
蟬聯	to continue in a post; (to hold a post) several times in succession
蟬蛻	cicada slough; fig. to free oneself; to extricate oneself from
蟬蝦	slipper lobster (family Scyllaridae)
蟬衣	cicada slough (used in TCM)
蟬鳴	song of cicadas; chirping of insects
蟭	eggs of mantis
蟭蟟	cicada (old)
蟮	used in 蛐蟮[qu1 shan5] and 曲蟮[qu1 shan5]
蟯	parasitic worm; human pinworm (Enterobius vermicularis)
蟯蟲	parasitic worm; human pinworm (Enterobius vermicularis)
蟯蟲病	enterobiasis
蟲	lower form of animal life, including insects, insect larvae, worms and similar creatures
蟲卵	insect egg
蟲媒	(of a plant) entomophilous; pollinated by insects
蟲媒病毒	arbovirus
蟲子	insect; bug; worm
蟲害	insect pest; damage from insects
蟲洞	(physics) wormhole
蟲災	insect damage; destruction of crops by pest insects
蟲牙	tooth decay; dental caries; decayed tooth; rotten tooth
蟲白蠟	white wax from Chinese white wax bug (Ericerus pela)
蟲眼	hole or bite mark in a plant made by an insect
蟲膠	shellac
蟲蛀	damaged by moths or worms
蟲蠟	white wax from Chinese white wax bug (Ericerus pela)
蟲豸	insect or insect-like small creature (literary)
蟲類	insects
蟳	(hairy sea-crab)
蟶	mussel; razor clam; Solecurtus constricta
蟷	mantis
蟹	crab
蟹化	(biology) to carcinize
蟹味菇	beech mushroom (Hypsizygus tessulatus)
蟹爪蘭	holiday cactus
蟹狀星雲	Crab Nebula
蟹獴	crab-eating mongoose
蟹粉	crab meat
蟹肉	crab meat
蟹醬	crab paste
蟹黃	the ovary and digestive glands of a female crab (eaten as a delicacy)
蟺	earthworm
蟻	ant
蟻丘	anthill
蟻后	queen ant
蟻巢	ant nest
蟻族	"ant tribe", college graduates who endure cramped living conditions while trying to develop a career
蟻穴	ant nest
蟻窩	ant nest
蟻酸	formic acid
蟻醛	formaldehyde (HCHO)
蟻鬥蝸爭	lit. the ant fights, the snail contends (idiom); fig. petty squabbling
蟻鴷	(bird species of China) Eurasian wryneck (Jynx torquilla)
蟾	toad ("chán" represents the sound of its croaking)
蟾宮折桂	lit. plucking a branch of osmanthus from the Toad Palace (i.e. the moon)
蟾蜍	toad
蟿	(insect); Tryxalis masuta
蠁	(literary) insect larva; Taiwan pr. [xiang4]
蠂	Podisma mikado
蠃	used in 蜾蠃[guo3 luo3]
蠅	fly; musca
蠅子	housefly
蠅營狗苟	(lit.) to swarm like flies around rotten food and drag out an ignoble existence like a dog (idiom)
蠅虎	jumping spider (family Salticidae)
蠅蛆	fly larva; maggot
蠅蛆病	myiasis
蠅頭小利	(idiom) meager profit; petty gain
蠆	(scorpion); an insect
蠉	wriggler; mosquito larva; to crawl
蠊	used in 蜚蠊[fei3 lian2]
蠋	caterpillar
蠍	(bound form) scorpion
蠍子	scorpion
蠍虎座	Lacerta (constellation)
蠐	used in 蠐螬|蛴螬[qi2 cao2]; used in 蝤蠐|蝤蛴[qiu2 qi2]
蠐螬	scarab beetle larva; grub
蠑	salamander
蠑螈	salamander; newt
蠓	midge
蠓蟲	midge
蠔	oyster
蠔油	oyster sauce
蠔菇	oyster mushroom (Pleurotus ostreatus)
蠔豉	dried oyster meat
蠕	to squirm; to wiggle; to wriggle
蠕動	to wiggle; to squirm; peristalsis (wave movement of gut wall)
蠕動前進	wriggle
蠕形動物	soft-bodied organisms; vermes (obsolete taxonomic term)
蠕滑	creep (friction mechanics)
蠕蟲	worm
蠕蠕	wiggling; squirming
蠕變	creep (materials science)
蠖	looper caterpillar
蠗	(ape); (shell)
蠙	pearl-oyster
蠚	to sting
蠛	used in 蠛蠓[mie4 meng3]
蠛蠓	(old) midge
蠜	cyrtophyllus sp.
蠟	candle; wax
蠟像	waxwork; wax figure
蠟像館	wax museum; waxworks
蠟扦	candlestick with a spike, onto which candles are impaled
蠟染	batik (color printing on cloth using wax)
蠟樣芽孢桿菌	(microbiology) Bacillus cereus
蠟炬	(literary) candle
蠟燭	candle
蠟燭不點不亮	some people have to be pushed for them to take action
蠟燭兩頭燒	to burn the candle at both ends (idiom)
蠟療	wax therapy (used to treat arthritis etc)
蠟筆	crayon (wax type)
蠟筆小新	Crayon Shin-chan, manga and anime series
蠟紙	wax paper; stencil paper
蠟臺	candlestick; candle holder
蠟蟲	Chinese white wax bug (Ericerus pela)
蠟質	waxiness
蠡	wood-boring insect
蠡縣	Li County or Lixian, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
蠢	stupid; sluggish; clumsy
蠢事	folly
蠢人	fool; imbecile
蠢動	to wriggle; (fig.) to stir up trouble; (of a sentiment) to stir
蠢材	idiot
蠢漢	fool; ignoramus; dullard
蠢笨	stupid
蠢蛋	fool; dolt
蠢蠢欲動	to begin to stir (idiom); to get restless; to become threatening
蠢話	foolish talk; nonsense
蠢豬	stupid swine; idiot
蠢貨	blockhead; idiot; dunce
蠢驢	silly ass
蠣	oyster
蠣鷸	(bird species of China) Eurasian oystercatcher (Haematopus ostralegus)
蠣黃	the flesh of oyster; marinated oyster meat
蠨	used in 蠨蛸|蟏蛸[xiao1 shao1]
蠨蛸	long-jawed orb weaver; long-jawed spider (family Tetragnathidae)
蠮	wasp of the family Sphecidae
蠮螉	wasp of the family Sphecidae
蠰	Cerambyx rugicollis
蠱	arch. legendary venomous insect; to poison; to bewitch
蠱惑	to entice; to lead astray
蠱惑人心	to stir up public sentiment by false statements (idiom)
蠱祝	to curse sb; to place a jinx
蠲	(literary) to remit; to exempt; (literary) millipede
蠲免	(literary) to exempt from (taxes, punishment etc)
蠲除	(literary) to remove; to get rid of
蠵	used in 蠵龜|蠵龟[xi1 gui1]
蠵龜	loggerhead sea turtle (Caretta caretta)
蠶	silkworm
蠶叢	Can Cong, legendary creator of silk and sericulture
蠶子	silkworm eggs
蠶寶寶	silkworm
蠶沙	silkworm guano (excrement)
蠶眠	a silkworm's period of inactivity prior to molting
蠶種	silkworm eggs
蠶箔	bamboo tray for raising silkworms
蠶紙	paper on which silkworm lays its eggs
蠶絲	natural silk (secreted by silkworm)
蠶繭	silkworm cocoon
蠶繭紙	paper made from silkworm cocoons
蠶菜	Malabar spinach (Basella alba)
蠶蔟	small bundle of straw etc provided for silkworms to spin cocoons on
蠶蛹	silkworm chrysalis; silkworm pupa
蠶蛾	Chinese silkworm moth (Bombyx mori)
蠶蟻	newly hatched silkworm
蠶豆	broad bean (Vicia faba); fava bean
蠶豆症	G6PD deficiency (glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency)
蠶農	sericulturist
蠶食	(lit. and fig.) to nibble away at
蠶食鯨吞	(lit.) to nibble like a silkworm or swallow like a whale (idiom)
蠸	Aulacophora femoralis
蠹	insect that eats into books, clothing etc; moth-eaten; worm-eaten
蠹吏	corrupt officials
蠹國害民	to rob the state and hurt the people (idiom)
蠹害	to harm; to endanger
蠹弊	malpractice; abuse; corrupt practice
蠹政	parasitic government
蠹眾木折	Danger appears where many harmful factors exist. (idiom)
蠹簡	old worm-eaten books
蠹蛀	to be moth-eaten; to be worm-eaten
蠹蟲	moth; harmful person; vermin
蠹魚	silverfish
蠹魚子	silverfish
蠻	barbarian; bullying; very
蠻不講理	completely unreasonable
蠻力	brute force
蠻夷	common term for non-Han peoples in former times, not exclusively derogatory
蠻子	barbarian; slave servant
蠻幹	to act rashly; to act precipitously regardless of the consequences
蠻悍	rude and violent; fierce and reckless
蠻橫	rude and unreasonable
蠻橫無理	rude and unreasonable
蠻皮	recalcitrant; obstreperous
蠻纏	to pester; to bother endlessly
蠻荒	savage; wild; uncivilized territory
蠻邸	foreign mission (in former times); residence of barbarian emissary
蠼	used in 蠼螋[qu2 sou1]
蠼螋	earwig
蠽	small green cicada
血	blood; colloquial pr. [xie3]
血中毒	blood poisoning
血債	debt of blood (after killing sb)
血債累累	debts of blood crying out for retribution
血債血償	a debt of blood must be paid in blood; blood calls for blood
血債要用血來償	A debt of blood must be paid in blood.; Blood calls for blood.
血債要用血來還	A debt of blood must be paid in blood.; Blood calls for blood.
血光之災	(idiom) mortal danger; fatal disaster
血凝	to coagulate
血凝素	hemaglutinin (the H of virus such as bird flu H5N1)
血刃	bloodshed
血友病	hemophilia
血口	bloody mouth (from devouring freshly killed prey)
血口噴人	to spit blood (idiom); venomous slander; malicious attacks
血史	history written in blood; epic period of struggle and sacrifice
血吸蟲	schistosoma
血吸蟲病	schistosomiasis
血型	blood group; blood type
血塊	blood clot
血塞	blood obstruction
血壓	blood pressure
血壓計	blood pressure meter; sphygmomanometer
血小板	blood platelet
血尿	hematuria
血崩	metrorrhagia (vaginal bleeding outside the expected menstrual period)
血師	hematite Fe2O3
血常規	(medicine) blood routine examination; full blood count; complete blood count
血幫	Bloods, street gang in USA
血庫	blood bank
血性	brave; staunch; unyielding
血戰	bloody battle
血拼	(loanword) shopping (as a fun pastime)
血族	blood relations; one's own flesh and blood; kin
血旺	(dialect) blood tofu (coagulated animal blood)
血暈	coma caused by loss of blood; fainting at the sight of blood
血書	letter written in one's own blood, expressing determination, hatred, last wishes etc
血月	blood moon
血本	hard-earned capital
血本無歸	(idiom) to lose everything one invested; to lose one's shirt
血栓	blood clot; thrombus
血栓形成	thrombosis
血栓病	thrombosis
血栓症	thrombosis
血案	murder case
血條	(gaming) health bar
血槽	fuller; blood groove (on a blade); (gaming) health bar
血橙	blood orange
血氣	blood and vital breath; bloodline (i.e. parentage); valor
血氣之勇	(idiom) the courage born of stirred emotions
血氣方剛	full of sap (idiom); young and vigorous
血氧含量	blood oxygen level
血氧量	blood oxygen level
血水	blood; bloody fluid; blood-tinged liquid
血汗	(fig.) sweat and toil; hard work
血汗工廠	sweatshop
血汗錢	hard-earned money
血污	blood smears; bloodstains
血沉	erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
血泊	pool of blood
血洗	to carry out a bloodbath in (a place); (fig.) to wreak havoc on
血流	blood flow
血流成河	rivers of blood (idiom); bloodbath
血流漂杵	enough blood flowing to float pestles (idiom); rivers of blood
血液	blood; (fig.) lifeblood
血液凝結	blood clotting
血液循環	blood circulation
血液恐怖症	blood phobia
血液病	disease of the blood
血液透析	hemodialysis
血液透析機	hemodialysis machine
血淋淋	bloody; blood-soaked; gory; grisly; cruel; brutal; harsh; grim; bitter
血淚	tears of blood (symbol of extreme suffering); blood and tears
血淚史	(fig.) history full of suffering; heart-rending story
血清	serum; blood serum
血清張力素	serotonin
血清素	serotonin
血漬	bloodstain
血漬斑斑	spattered in blood; covered in bloodstains
血漿	blood plasma
血濃於水	blood is thicker than water
血牛	sb who sells one's blood for a living
血球	blood corpuscle; hemocyte
血田	field of blood; battlefield; hateful place
血瘤	blood tumor; angioma (tumor consisting of a mass of blood vessels)
血癌	leukemia
血盆大口	bloody mouth wide open like a sacrificial bowl (idiom); ferocious mouth of beast of prey
血祭	blood sacrifice; animal sacrifice (to a God or ancestral spirit)
血站	blood center
血竭	dragon's blood (bright red tree resin)
血管	vein; artery
血管攝影	angiography
血管支架	(medicine) vascular stent; stent (used to keep a blood vessel open)
血管瘤	angioma (medicine)
血管粥樣硬化	atherosclerosis; hardening of the arteries
血管造影	angiography
血糖	blood sugar
血糖生成指數	glycemic index
血紅素	(biochemistry) heme; (Tw) hemoglobin
血紅蛋白	hemoglobin
血細胞	blood cell
血統	blood relationship; lineage; parentage
血統論	class division into proletariat and bourgeoisie class enemy, in use esp. during the Cultural Revolution
血絲	wisps of blood; visible veins; (of eyes) bloodshot
血緣	bloodline
血緣關係	blood relationship; consanguinity
血肉	flesh
血肉模糊	(idiom) badly mangled or mutilated; gruesome
血肉橫飛	(idiom) flesh and blood flying in all directions; carnage
血肉相連	one's own flesh and blood (idiom); closely related
血胸	(medicine) hemothorax
血脂	blood lipid
血脈	blood vessels
血脈僨張	(lit.) blood vessels swell wide (idiom)
血腥	reeking of blood; bloody (events)
血腥瑪麗	Bloody Mary
血腫	hematoma; swelling of soft tissue due to internal hemorrhage
血腸	blood sausage
血色	color (of one's skin, a sign of good health); red of cheeks
血色素	hematin (blood pigment); heme; hemoglobin
血色素沉積症	hemochromatosis
血藍素	(biochemistry) hemocyanin
血虧	anemia
血衣	bloody garment
血袋	blood bag
血製品	blood products
血親	kin; blood relation
血親復仇	blood vengeance
血證	evidence of murder; bloodstain evidence
血豆腐	blood tofu (coagulated animal blood)
血象	(medicine) blood count; hemogram
血賬	debt of blood (after killing sb)
血跡	bloodstain
血跡斑斑	bloodstained
血路	desperate getaway (from a battlefield)
血透	hemodialysis (abbr. for 血液透析[xue4 ye4 tou4 xi1])
血鑽	blood diamond; conflict diamond
血雀	(bird species of China) scarlet finch (Carpodacus sipahi)
血雉	(bird species of China) blood pheasant (Ithaginis cruentus)
血雨	rain of blood; heavy rain colored by loess sandstorm
血餅	blood clot; coagulated blood
血鬱	(TCM) to have sluggish blood circulation
衁	blood
衄	to bleed from the nose (or from the ears, gums etc)
衆寡	the many or the few
衈	the blood of a sacrificial fowl which was sprinkled on doors and vessels
衉	to vomit
衊	defiled with blood
衋	sad (old)
行	(bound form) to walk; to go; to travel
行不從徑	lit. not following the straight path (idiom); fig. looking for a shortcut to get ahead in work or study
行不更名，坐不改姓	I am who I am and not ashamed of it; to be proud of one's name and stand by one's actions
行不由徑	lit. never taking a short-cut (idiom); fig. upright and honest
行不通	won't work; will get (you) nowhere
行不顧言	to say one thing and do another (idiom)
行之有效	to be effective (idiom)
行乞	to beg; to ask for alms
行事	to execute; to handle; behavior
行事曆	calendar; schedule
行人	pedestrian; traveler on foot; passer-by
行人徑	footway
行人道	(dialect) sidewalk
行令	to issue orders; to order sb to drink in a drinking game
行使	to exercise (a right etc)
行使職權	to exercise power
行俠仗義	to be chivalrous
行兇	violent crime; to commit a violent act (assault or murder)
行兇者	perpetrator
行刑	to carry out a (death) sentence; execution
行刑隊	firing squad
行列	formation; array; (fig.) ranks (as in "join the ranks of ...")
行列式	determinant (math.)
行刺	to assassinate
行動	operation; action; to move about
行動不便	unable to move freely; difficult to get about
行動主義	activism
行動值	(gaming) action points (points required to complete an action)
行動劇	(Tw) street theater (esp. as a form of political expression)
行動方案	program of action
行動綱領	action plan; program of action
行動自由	freedom of action
行動藝術	performance art
行動藝術家	performance artist
行動裝置	mobile device (Tw)
行動計劃	action plan
行動電源	(Tw) power bank
行動電話	mobile phone (Tw)
行員	(Tw) staff; clerk; employee (of a bank 銀行|银行[yin2 hang2] or commercial firm 商行[shang1 hang2])
行唐縣	Xingtang, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
行商	traveling salesman; itinerant trader; hawker
行善	to do good works; to be merciful
行囊	traveling bag; luggage
行好	to be charitable; to do a good deed
行客	visitor; traveler
行宮	temporary imperial residence
行家	connoisseur; expert; veteran
行家裡手	connoisseur; expert
行將	ready to start on sth; about to act
行將就木	to approach one's coffin (idiom); with one foot in the grave
行將結束	approaching the end; about to conclude
行屍走肉	walking corpse (idiom); zombie
行市	quotation on market price
行徑	(usu. pejorative) conduct; behavior; act; path; trail
行得通	practicable; realizable; will work
行情	market price; quotation of market price; the current market situation
行房	euphemism for sexual intercourse; to go to bed with sb
行拘	to arrest without trial or charge (i.e. administrative detention) (abbr. for 行政拘留[xing2 zheng4 ju1 liu2])
行政	administration; (attributive) administrative; executive
行政公署	administrative office
行政區	administrative district
行政區劃	administrative subdivision
行政區劃圖	political map
行政區域	administrative area
行政區畫	administrative subdivision (e.g. of provinces into counties)
行政命令	executive order
行政員	administrator
行政單位	administrative unit (e.g. province 省[sheng3], prefecture 地區|地区[di4 qu1] or county 縣|县[xian4])
行政拘留	to incarcerate sb for a violation of administrative law, typically for 10 days or less; administrative detention
行政救濟	administrative remedy
行政會議	Executive Council of Hong Kong
行政機關	administrative authority; branch of government
行政權	administrative authority; executive power
行政法	administrative law
行政管理	administration; administrative management
行政總廚	executive chef
行政部門	administrative department; administration
行政長官	chief executive; magistrate
行政院	Executive Yuan, the executive branch of government under the constitution of Republic of China, then of Taiwan
行文	writing style (formal); to send an official written communication
行旅	traveler; wanderer; vagabond
行星	planet
行星際	interplanetary
行書	running script; semicursive script (Chinese calligraphic style)
行會	ExCo; Executive Council of Hong Kong (abbr. for 行政會議|行政会议[Xing2 zheng4 Hui4 yi4])
行有餘力	after that, any remaining energy (idiom from Analects); time for extracurricular activities
行期	departure date
行李	luggage
行李傳送帶	luggage conveyor belt; baggage carousel
行李員	porter; bellboy
行李房	luggage office
行李搬運工	baggage handler
行李架	luggage rack
行李票	baggage tag
行李箱	suitcase; baggage compartment; overhead bin
行李袋	travel bag
行板	andante; at a walking pace
行棧	warehouse
行業	trade; profession; industry; business
行權	(literary) to act expediently; (finance) to exercise an option
行止	movements; attitude; behavior
行波管	traveling wave tube (electronics)
行淫	to commit adultery
行為	action; conduct; behavior; activity
行為主義	behaviorism
行為數據	behavioral data (marketing)
行為準則	code of conduct; standard of conduct
行為藝術	performance art
行為藝術家	performance artist
行狀	(literary) brief obituary; one's past experience; one's past record
行當	profession; role (acting)
行百里者半九十	lit. ninety li is merely a half of a hundred li journey (idiom)
行省	province (old)
行禮	to salute; to make one's salutations
行禮如儀	to perform the ritual bows; to follow the customary ceremonies
行程	journey; travel route; itinerary; distance of travel
行程單	(e-ticket) itinerary receipt
行竊	to steal; to commit a robbery
行篋	traveling suitcase
行經	to pass by; menstruation
行署	administrative office
行者	pedestrian; walker; itinerant monk
行腳	(of a monk) to travel; itinerant
行船	to sail a boat; to navigate
行色匆匆	hurried; in a haste
行草	semicursive script
行萬里路勝讀萬卷書	to travel a thousand miles beats reading a thousand books
行號	(computing) (text file) line number; (data table or spreadsheet) row number
行行出狀元	lit. in every trade, a master appears (idiom); fig. You can produce outstanding achievements in any task, provided you put it enough love and diligence
行裝	clothes and other items packed for traveling; baggage; luggage
行話	jargon; language of the trade
行語	slang; jargon; cant
行貨	goods sold through official distribution channels
行賄	to offer a bribe
行走	to walk
行距	row spacing
行跡	tracks; traces; movements
行路	to travel; transport
行蹤	whereabouts; (lose) track (of)
行車	to drive a vehicle; movement of vehicles
行車記錄儀	dashcam
行軍	(of troops) to march
行軍床	camp bed; bivouac
行軍禮	military salute
行輩	generation and age ranking; seniority
行進	to advance; forward motion
行進擋	forward gear
行道	path; road
行道樹	roadside tree; street tree
行酒令	to play a drinking game
行醫	to practice medicine (esp. in private practice)
行銷	to sell; to market; marketing
行銷訴求	marketing message
行銷長	(Tw) chief marketing officer (CMO)
行長	bank president
行間	between rows
行雲流水	lit. moving clouds and flowing water (idiom)
行頭	(archaic) leader of a troop of soldiers; (archaic) guild leader
行駛	to travel along a route (of vehicles etc)
行駛證	vehicle registration certificate
行騙	to cheat; to deceive
衍	to spread out; to develop; to overflow
衍伸	to give rise (to); to spawn; to spread (to)
衍化	to evolve (of ideas, designs, constructions etc)
衍射	(physics) to diffract
衍射格子	diffraction grating (physics)
衍射角	angle of diffraction (physics)
衍生	to give rise to; to derive; derivative
衍生劇	spin-off series (TV)
衍生工具	derivative (finance)
衍生物	derivative; offshoot
衍生產品	derivative product; derivative (in finance)
衍聖公	hereditary title bestowed on Confucius' descendants
衍聖公府	the official residence of Confucius' descendants at Qufu 曲阜, Shandong
衍聲複詞	compound word, such as 玫瑰[mei2 gui1] or 咖啡[ka1 fei1], whose meaning is unrelated to the individual characters (Note: These characters are often not used independently in modern Chinese.)
衍變	to develop; to evolve
衎	pleased
衒	(literary) to boast; to show off
術	various genera of flowers of Asteracea family (daisies and chrysanthemums), including Atractylis lancea
術前	preoperative; before surgery
術後	postoperative; after surgery
術語	term; terminology
衕	used in 衚衕|胡同[hu2 tong4]
街	street
街上	on the street; in town
街區	block; neighborhood
街坊	neighborhood; neighbor
街坊四鄰	neighbors; the whole neighborhood
街坊鄰里	neighbors; the whole neighborhood
街巷	streets and alleys; street; alley
街市	downtown area; commercial district
街旁	Jiepang (Chinese location-based social networking service for mobile devices, in operation 2010-2016)
街景	streetscape
街機	arcade machine
街段	block
街溜子	town idler
街燈	streetlight
街知巷聞	to be known to everyone
街舞	street dance (e.g. breakdance)
街訪	street interview (abbr. for 街頭採訪|街头采访[jie1 tou2 cai3 fang3])
街談巷議	(idiom) town gossip; streetcorner conversations
街道	street; subdistrict; residential district
街道辦	(PRC) subdistrict office (basic-level urban administrative unit) (abbr. for 街道辦事處|街道办事处[jie1 dao4 ban4 shi4 chu4])
街道辦事處	(PRC) subdistrict office (basic-level urban administrative unit)
街門	gate or door facing the street
街頭	street
街頭巷尾	top of streets, bottom of alleys (idiom); everywhere in the city
街頭藝人	busker; street artist
街頭霸王	Street Fighter (video game series)
衙	office; yamen 衙門|衙门
衙內	child of an official; palace bodyguard
衙役	bailiff of feudal yamen
衙署	government office in feudal China; yamen
衙門	yamen, government office in dynastic China
衚	used in 衚衕|胡同[hu2 tong4]
衛	to guard; to protect; to defend
衛兵	guard; bodyguard
衛冕	to defend the crown (in sports championship)
衛國	state of Wei (c. 1040-209 BC), vassal of Zhou
衛城	citadel; defensive city; acropolis
衛報	The Guardian (U.K. newspaper)
衛士	guardian; defender
衛奕信	David Clive Wilson, Baron Wilson of Tillyorn (1935-), British diplomat and China expert, Governor of Hong Kong 1986-1992
衛尉	commander of the imperial guards
衛星	(aerospace) satellite; (astronomy) satellite; moon
衛星圖	satellite photo
衛星圖像	satellite photo
衛星城	"satellite" town; edge city; exurb
衛星導航	satellite navigation; sat-nav
衛星導航系統	satellite navigation system; sat-nav
衛星電視	satellite TV
衛東區	Weidong, a district of Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
衛校	medical school; nursing school
衛氏朝鮮	Wiman Korea (195-108 BC), historical kingdom in Manchuria, Liaoning and North Korea
衛浴	sanitary (related to toilet and bathroom); bathroom
衛滿朝鮮	Wiman Korea (195-108 BC), historical kingdom in Manchuria, Liaoning and North Korea
衛濱區	Weibin, a district of Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
衛理公會	Methodists
衛生	hygienic; sanitary; hygiene; sanitation
衛生下水道	(Tw) sanitary sewer system
衛生丸	mothball; (jocular term) bullet
衛生套	condom
衛生官員	health official
衛生局	health office; bureau of hygiene
衛生巾	sanitary towel
衛生廳	(provincial) department of health
衛生棉	sterilized absorbent cotton wool (used for dressings or cleansing wounds)
衛生棉條	tampon
衛生球	mothball
衛生用紙	toilet paper
衛生筷	disposable chopsticks
衛生紙	toilet paper; tissues
衛生署	health bureau (or office, or department, or agency)
衛生衣	(dialect) thermal undershirt; long underwear top
衛生褲	(dialect) thermal underwear bottoms; long underwear pants
衛生設備	sanitary equipment
衛生部	Ministry of Health
衛生間	bathroom; toilet; WC
衛生陶瓷	chamber pot; commode
衛生鬍	toothbrush moustache; Hitler moustache
衛留成	Wei Liucheng (1946-), fifth governor of Hainan
衛艦	a frigate (warship)
衛衣	sweatshirt
衛褲	sweatpants; joggers
衛視	satellite TV (abbr. for 衛星電視|卫星电视[wei4 xing1 dian4 shi4])
衛護	to guard; to protect
衛輝市	Weihui, a county-level city in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
衛道	to defend traditional values
衛道士	traditionalist; moralist; champion (of a cause)
衛隊	guard (i.e. group of soldiers)
衛霍	abbr. for generals Wei Qing 衛青|卫青 and Huo Qubing 霍去病 of Western Han 西漢|西汉[Xi1 Han4], famous for their success in quelling the Xiongnu barbarian invaders
衝	thoroughfare; to go straight ahead; to rush
衝入	to rush into; to break into
衝出	to rush out
衝刺	(sports) to sprint; to spurt; to dash
衝力	momentum (the force exhibited by a moving body)
衝勁	dynamism; drive
衝動	to have an urge; to be impetuous; impulse
衝口而出	to blurt out without thinking (idiom)
衝嚮	to charge into
衝垮	to burst; to break through; to topple
衝塔	(gaming, esp. MOBA) to recklessly enter the attack range of an enemy tower – a stationary defense structure that automatically fires on intruders – typically resulting in death
衝壓	to stamp; to press (sheet metal); Taiwan pr. [chong1ya1]
衝床	stamping press (metalworking)
衝打	(of waves, rain etc) to dash against; to batter
衝撞	to collide; jerking motion; to impinge
衝擊	to attack; to batter; (of waves) to pound against
衝擊力	force of impact or thrust
衝擊波	shock wave; blast wave
衝擊鑽	impact drill; hammer drill
衝斷層	thrust fault (geology); compression fault
衝昏頭腦	lit. to be muddled in the brain (idiom); fig. excited and unable to act rationally
衝殺	to charge
衝決	to burst (e.g. a dam)
衝浪	to surf; surfing
衝浪板	surfboard; paddleboard
衝破	breakthrough; to overcome an obstacle quickly
衝程	stroke (of a piston)
衝突	conflict; to conflict; clash of opposing forces
衝要	(of a place) strategically important
衝進	to rush in; to charge in
衝量	(physics) impulse
衝鋒	to charge (at the enemy); to storm (an enemy position)
衝鋒槍	submachine gun
衝鋒舟	heavy-duty inflatable boat
衝鋒陷陣	(idiom) to charge into battle; (fig.) to be on the front lines
衞	to guard; to defend
衡	to weigh; weight; measure
衡南縣	Hengnan, a county in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
衡山	Mt Heng in Hunan, southern mountain of the Five Sacred Mountains 五嶽|五岳[Wu3 yue4]
衡山縣	Hengshan, a county in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
衡平	to govern; to administer
衡情酌理	to weight the matter and deliberate the reason (idiom); to weigh and consider
衡東縣	Hengdong, a county in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
衡水市	Hengshui, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
衡酌	to weigh and consider; to deliberate; short form of idiom 衡情酌理
衡量	to weigh; to examine; to consider
衡量制	system of weights and measures
衡陽市	Hengyang, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
衡陽縣	Hengyang, a county in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
衢	thoroughfare
衢州市	Quzhou, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
衢江區	Qujiang, a district of Quzhou City 衢州市[Qu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
衣	to dress; to wear; to put on (clothes)
衣不蔽體	lit. clothes not covering the body (idiom); fig. poverty-stricken
衣兜	pocket
衣冠	hat and clothes; attire
衣冠冢	cenotaph
衣冠楚楚	immaculately dressed; well-groomed; dapper
衣冠禽獸	lit. dressed up animal (idiom); fig. immoral and despicable person
衣原菌	Chlamydia
衣原體	Chlamydia (genus of intracellular parasitic bacteria)
衣品	taste in clothes; dress sense; fashion sense
衣單食薄	thin coat, meager food (idiom); life of wretched poverty; destitute
衣夾	clothespin; clothes peg
衣子	covering
衣履	clothes and shoes
衣帶	belt; sash; (literary) attire
衣帽間	cloakroom
衣扣	button
衣料	material for clothing
衣服	clothes
衣服縫邊	hem
衣架	clothes hanger; clothes rack
衣櫃	wardrobe; armoire
衣櫥	wardrobe
衣物	clothing; clothing and other personal items
衣物櫃	locker; lockable compartment
衣甲	armor
衣索比亞	Ethiopia (Tw)
衣索比亞界	(Tw) Ethiopian Zone, aka Afrotropical realm
衣缽	the cassock and alms bowl of a Buddhist master passed on to the favorite disciple (Buddhism)
衣著	clothes
衣衫	clothing; unlined garment
衣衾	burial clothes
衣袋	pocket (in a garment)
衣袖	the sleeve of a garment
衣裙	female clothing
衣裝	garment
衣裳	(coll.) clothes
衣裳鈎兒	clothes hook
衣襟	the front piece(s) of a Chinese jacket; lapel
衣角	corner of the lower hem of a jacket etc
衣鉤	clothes hook
衣錦榮歸	to come back to one's hometown in silken robes (idiom); to return in glory
衣錦還鄉	lit. to come back to one's hometown in silken robes (idiom)
衣領	collar; neck
衣食	clothes and food
衣食住行	(lit.) clothing, food, housing and transportation (idiom)
衣食無憂	not having to worry about clothes and food (idiom)
衣食無虞	not having to worry about food and clothes (idiom)
衣食父母	the people one depends upon for one's livelihood
衣飾	clothes and ornaments
衣魚	silverfish (Lepisma saccharina)
衤	the left-radical form of Kangxi radical 145, 衣[yi1]
表	exterior surface; family relationship via females
表位	(immunology) antigenic determinant; epitope
表兄	older male cousin through a female relative
表兄弟	male cousin through a female relative
表冊	statistical form; book of tables or forms
表功	to show off one's accomplishments (often derog.)
表叔	son of grandfather's sister; son of grandmother's brother or sister
表哥	older male cousin through a female relative
表單	form (document)
表土	topsoil
表報	statistical tables and reports
表妹	younger female cousin through a female relative
表妹夫	husband of younger female cousin via female line
表姊妹	father's sister's daughters; maternal female cousin
表姐	older female cousin through a female relative
表姐夫	husband of older female cousin via female line
表姐妹	female cousin through a female relative
表姑	father's female cousin via female line
表姪	son of a male cousin via female line
表姪女	daughter of a male cousin via female line
表嫂	wife of older male cousin via female line
表字	literary name (an alternative name of a person stressing a moral principle)
表尺	rear sight (of a gun)
表層	surface layer
表帶	watchband; watch strap
表弟	younger male cousin through a female relative
表弟妹	wife of younger male cousin via female line
表弟媳	wife of younger male cousin via female line
表彰	to honor; to commend; to cite (in dispatches)
表徵	symbol; indicator; representation
表情	(facial) expression; to express one's feelings
表情包	image macro; visual meme; sticker package
表意	to express meaning; ideographic
表意文字	ideograph; ideographical writing system
表態	to declare one's position; to say where one stands
表揚	to praise; to commend
表明	to make clear; to make known; to state clearly
表格	form; table
表決	to decide by vote; to vote
表決權	right to vote; vote
表溫	surface temperature
表演	play; show; performance
表演賽	exhibition match
表率	example; model
表現	to show; to show off; to display
表現力	expressive power
表現型	phenotype
表白	to explain oneself; to express; to reveal one's thoughts or feelings
表皮	epidermis; cuticle
表盤	meter dial; watch face
表示	(of sb) to express; to state; to show
表示層	presentation layer
表示式	expression (math.)
表章	memorial to the Emperor
表裡	the outside and the inside; one's outward show and inner thoughts
表裡不一	outside appearance and inner reality differ (idiom); not what it seems
表裡如一	external appearance and inner thoughts coincide (idiom); to say what one means
表親	cousin (via female line)
表觀	apparent
表觀遺傳學	epigenetics
表記	sth given as a token; souvenir
表語	predicative
表證	superficial syndrome
表象	outward appearance; superficial
表述	to express; to articulate; to formulate
表達	to express; to convey
表達式	expression (math.)
表露	to show; to reveal (one's feelings etc)
表露無遺	to show in full light; to be revealed in its entirety
表面	surface; face; outside
表面上	outwardly; superficially; on the face of it
表面化	to come to the surface; to become apparent
表面外膜	surface coat
表面張力	surface tension
表面文章	superficial show; going through the motions
表面活化劑	surfactant
表面活性劑	surfactant
表音	phonetic; phonological; transliteration
衩	open seam of a garment; shorts; panties
衫	garment; jacket with open slits in place of sleeves
衭	the lapel of a garment
衰	(bound form) to decay; to decline; to wane
衰之以屬	to treat a debility according to its nature
衰亡	to decline; to die out; decline and fall
衰人	loser; jerk
衰弱	weak; feeble
衰微	to decline; to wane; weakened; enfeebled; in decline
衰敗	to decline; to wane; to decay
衰朽	decaying; decrepit; aged and crumbling
衰減	to weaken; to attenuate
衰竭	organ failure; exhaustion; prostration (medicine)
衰老	to age; to deteriorate with age; old and weak
衰落	to fall; to drop; to decline
衰變	radioactive decay
衰變曲線	decay curves
衰變熱	decay heat
衰變鏈	decay chain
衰退	to decline; to fall; to drop
衰退期	recession (in economics)
衰運	decline in fortunes
衰邁	aged; decrepit
衰頹	uninspired; dejected; discouraged
衲	cassock; to line
衵	women's undergarments
衷	inner feelings
衷心	heartfelt; wholehearted; cordial
衹	robe of a Buddhist monk or nun
衽	(literary) overlapping part of Chinese gown; lapel; sleeping mat
衾	coverlet; quilt
衿	collar; belt
袁	long robe (old)
袁世凱	Yuan Shikai (1859-1916), senior general of late Qing, subsequently warlord and self-proclaimed emperor of China
袁于令	Yuan Yuling (-1674) Qing writer, author of 西樓記|西楼记[Xi1 lou2 Ji4]
袁宏道	Yuan Hongdao (1568-1610), Ming dynasty poet and travel writer
袁州區	Yuanzhou, a district of Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
袁枚	Yuan Mei (1716–1797), Qing poet, essayist and gastronome, one of the Three Great Masters of the Qianlong-Jiaqing period 乾嘉三大家[Qian2 Jia1 San1 Da4 jia1]
袁桷	Yuan Jue (1267-1327), Yuan dynasty writer and calligrapher
袁紹	Yuan Shao (153-202), general during late Han, subsequently warlord
袁詠儀	Anita Yuen (1971-), Hong Kong actress
袁隆平	Yuan Longping (1930–2021), Chinese agronomist known as the "father of hybrid rice"
袁靜	Yuan Jing (1911-1999), writer, dramatist and film critic
袁頭	silver coin from the early days of the Republic of China (1912-1949) bearing the head of Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3]
袂	sleeve of a robe
袈	used in 袈裟[jia1 sha1]
袈裟	kasaya (robe of a Buddhist monk or nun) (loanword from Sanskrit)
袋	pouch; bag; sack
袋子	bag
袋熊	wombat (Australian marsupial)
袋狼	thylacine (Thylacinus cynocephalus)
袋鼠	kangaroo
袋鼠國	(slang) Australia
袍	gown (lined)
袍子	Chinese-style gown
袍澤	fellow soldier
袒	to bare
袒免	to bare one's left arm and take off one's cap as an expression of sorrow
袒庇	to shield; to harbor; to cover up
袒縛	to surrender after baring oneself to the waist and tying one's hands behind
袒胸	to bare the breast
袒膊	to strip to the waist; to be bare to the waist
袒衣	to dress in a hurry with part of the body showing
袒裼	to bare the upper body
袒護	to shield (a miscreant) from punishment, criticism etc
袒露	to expose; to bare
袖	sleeve; to tuck inside one's sleeve
袖口	cuff
袖套	sleeve cover; outer sleeve
袖子	sleeve
袖手旁觀	to watch with folded arms (idiom); to look on without lifting a finger
袖扣	cuff link
袖標	armband; sleeve badge
袖珍	pocket-sized; pocket (book etc)
袖珍人	little person; midget; dwarf
袖珍本	pocket book; paperback
袖珍辭典	pocket dictionary
袖珍音響	pocket stereo; walkman
袖章	armband (e.g. as part of uniform or to show status)
袖筒	sleeve
袖箍	armband
袖管	sleeve
袖箭	spring-loaded arrow concealed in one's sleeve
袗	unlined garment
袚	knee-pads; buskins
袞	imperial robe
袟	surname Zhi
袠	(classifier) ten years
袢	used in 袷袢[qia1 pan4]
袤	length; distance from north to south
袪	sleeve opening
被	quilt; to cover (with); (literary) to suffer (a misfortune)
被上訴人	appellee (side that won in trial court, whose victory is being appealed by losing side)
被乘數	multiplicand
被保人	insured person; insurance policyholder
被保險人	insured party; the person or entity covered under an insurance policy
被優化掉	to be made redundant
被剝削者	person suffering exploitation; the workers in Marxist theory
被加數	augend; addend
被動	passive
被動免疫	passive immunity
被動吸煙	second-hand smoking; passive smoking
被動收入	(finance) passive income
被告	(law) the defendant; the accused
被告人	defendant (in legal case)
被和諧	to be "harmonized" i.e. censored
被單	(bed) sheet; envelope for a padded coverlet
被困	to be trapped; to be stranded
被執行人	(law) person required to fulfill obligations set forth in a written court judgement (e.g. to pay compensation to sb)
被套	duvet cover; quilt cover
被子	blanket; quilt
被子植物	angiosperm (flowering plants with seed contained in a fruit)
被子植物門	angiospermae (phylum of flowering plants with seed contained in a fruit)
被害人	victim
被害者	victim (of a wounding or murder)
被捕	to be arrested; under arrest
被控	to be charged; to be accused (of an offense)
被旅遊	(coll.) (of a dissident) to be taken on a tour, ostensibly a vacation, but actually a trip organized by the authorities where one's every move is watched
被服	bedding and clothing
被毛	coat (of an animal)
被減數	(math.) minuend
被爆者	survivor of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 被爆者 "hibakusha")
被牆	(slang) (of a website) to get blocked
被物化	objectified
被窩	(traditional bedding) quilt wrapped around the body as a tube
被胎	duvet inner; duvet insert (i.e. a duvet without its cover 被套[bei4 tao4])
被臥	quilt; cover
被自殺	a death claimed to be a suicide by the authorities
被褥	bedding; bedclothes
被訪者	respondent (in a survey, questionnaire, study etc)
被譯	translated
被迫	to be compelled; to be forced
被選舉權	the right to be elected; the right to stand for election
被除數	dividend (math.)
被面	quilt
袮	used in rare Japanese place names such as 袮宜町 Minorimachi and 袮宜田 Minorita
袱	(bound form) a cloth used to wrap or cover
袲	place name
袷	used in 袷袢[qia1 pan4]
袷袢	(loanword) chapan, a traditional collarless coat worn in Central Asian countries
袺	lift up a dress
袼	gusset; cloth fitting sleeve under armpit
袼褙	rags used as shoes
袽	old rags
裀	mat; underclothing
裁	to cut out (as a dress); to cut; to trim
裁並	cut down and merge
裁人	to cut staff; to lay off employees
裁兵	to reduce troop numbers; disarmament
裁切	to crop; to trim
裁判	(law) to judge; to adjudicate; verdict; judgement; (sports) to referee
裁判員	referee
裁判官	judge
裁判所	place of judgment; law court
裁剪	to cut out
裁員	to cut staff; to lay off employees
裁奪	to consider and decide
裁定	ruling
裁度	(formal) to make a judgement call; to decide
裁撤	to dissolve (a department etc); to eliminate (positions)
裁斷	to consider and decide
裁汰	to cut back
裁決	ruling; adjudication
裁減	to reduce; to lessen; to cut down
裁答	to reply (to a letter)
裁紙機	trimmer; paper cutter
裁縫	to make an item of clothing; to tailor
裁縫師	tailor
裁縫店	tailor's shop
裁處	to handle
裁製	to tailor; to make clothes
裁軍	disarmament
裁革	to dismiss; to lay off
裂	to split; to crack; to break open
裂化	to crack (fractionally distill oil)
裂口	breach; split; rift
裂殖	schizo-
裂殖菌	Schizomycetes (taxonomic class of fungi)
裂殖菌綱	Schizomycetes (taxonomic class of fungi)
裂片	splinter; chip; tear (split in a surface)
裂璺	to crack; to split; fracture line
裂痕	crack; gap; split
裂紋	crack; flaw
裂縫	crack; crevice
裂罅	rift; crevice; fissure
裂腦人	commissurotomy
裂解	pyrolysis; splitting (chemistry)
裂變	(physics) to undergo nuclear fission
裂變材料	fissionable material
裂變武器	fission weapon
裂變炸彈	fission bomb
裂變產物	fission products
裂變碎片	fission fragment
裂谷	(geology) rift valley
裂谷熱	Rift Valley fever (RVF)
裂開	to split open
裂隙	gap; slit; crack; crevice; fracture
裂體吸蟲	schistosome, parasitic flatworm causing snail fever (bilharzia or schistosomiasis)
裇	used in T裇[T xu4]
裉	side seam in an upper garment
裊	delicate; graceful
裊娜	slim and graceful
裊裊	rising in spirals
裊裊婷婷	(idiom) (of a woman) elegant and supple
裋	used in 裋褐[shu4 he4]
裋褐	(literary) coarse clothing; sackcloth (worn by the poor in former times)
裍	a border or band on the edge of a dress
裎	to take off one's clothes; naked
裏番	erotic anime; pornographic animation (loanword modeled on Japanese 裏番組 ura bangumi, "program aired opposite another", reinterpreted in Chinese ACG usage as "adult anime")
裒	collect
裒多益寡	to take from the rich and give to the poor (idiom)
裒斂無厭	to accumulate wealth without satisfaction
裔	(bound form) descendants
裔胄	descendants; offspring
裕	abundant
裕仁	Hirohito, personal name of the Shōwa 昭和[Zhao1 he2] emperor of Japan (1901-1989), reigned 1925-1989
裕固	Yugur ethnic group
裕固族	Yugur ethnic group
裕安區	Yu'an, a district of Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
裕度	margin; allowance
裕民縣	Yumin, a county in Tacheng Prefecture 塔城地區|塔城地区[Ta3 cheng2 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
裕華區	Yuhua, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
裘	fur; fur coat
裘力斯·愷撒	Julius Caesar, 1599 tragedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚[Sha1 shi4 bi3 ya4]
裙	(bound form) skirt
裙子	skirt
裙帶	waistband of a skirt
裙帶官	official who gained his position through the influence of a female relative
裙帶菜	wakame (Undaria pinnatifida), an edible seaweed
裙帶親	relatives of the wife (slightly pejorative)
裙帶資本主義	crony capitalism
裙帶關係	(idiom) favoritism shown to sb because of the influence of the person's wife or other female relative
裙帶風	the practice of favoring sb because of the influence of the person's wife or other female relative
裙撐	frame worn under a skirt; underskirt
裙樓	podium building (low-rise structure attached to or surrounding a high-rise tower)
裙褲	culottes; pantskirt
裙襬	hem (of a skirt)
裙邊	the edible gelatinous fringe of a softshell turtle's carapace
裛	to wrap and bind; damp; dripping
補	to repair; to patch; to mend
補丁	patch (for mending clothes, tires etc); (software) patch
補交	to hand in after the deadline; to pay after the due date
補休	to take deferred time off (to make up for working during the weekend or holidays)
補偏救弊	to remedy defects and correct errors (idiom); to rectify past mistakes
補償	to compensate; to make up
補償費	compensation
補充	to replenish; to supplement; to complement
補充劑	dietary supplement
補充品	complementary item
補充醫療	complementary medicine
補充量	complement; complementary quantity
補光燈	fill light
補刀	(gaming) to finish off a wounded combatant
補劑	tonic; supplement
補助	to subsidize; subsidy; allowance
補卡	to replace a lost or damaged SIM card, retaining one's original telephone number
補品	tonic
補回	to make up for; to compensate
補報	to make a report after the event; to make a supplementary report
補天浴日	(lit.) Nüwa mends the Heavens and Xihe bathes the Sun (idiom)
補妝	to touch up one's makeup
補強	(engineering) to reinforce (a structure); to strengthen
補救	to remedy
補數	complementary number
補時	(sports) to extend the duration of a game (due to stoppages)
補檔	to reupload digital content (because it expired, was taken down etc)
補法	treatment involving the use of tonics to restore the patient's health
補液	to administer fluids (esp. intravenously)
補滿	to make up for what is lacking; to fill (a vacancy); to replenish
補瀉	reinforcing and reducing methods (in acupuncture)
補爐	fettling
補牙	(dentistry) to fill a tooth; to have a tooth filled
補登	record entry (e.g. into a bank passbook)
補登機	passbook entry machine
補發	to supply again (sth lost); to reissue; to pay retroactively
補白	to fill a gap (e.g. a gap in knowledge or blank space in a print layout)
補益	benefit; help
補眠	to catch up on sleep
補碼	complementary code; binary code with 0 and 1 interchanged
補票	to buy or upgrade a ticket after boarding a train, boat etc
補票處	additional ticket desk; stand-by counter
補稅	to pay a tax one has evaded; to pay an overdue tax
補種	to reseed; to resow; to replant
補給	supply; replenishment; to replenish
補給品	supplies
補給站	depot; supply station; supply point
補給船	supply ship
補給艦	supply ship
補給車	(military) supply vehicle
補綴	to mend (clothes); to patch
補缺	to fill a vacancy; to make up for a shortage; to supply a deficiency
補習	to take extra lessons in a cram school or with a private tutor
補習班	cram class; cram school; evening classes
補考	to sit for a makeup exam; to resit an exam; makeup exam
補胎	to repair a tire
補胎片	tire patch (for puncture repair)
補色	complementary color
補花	applique
補苗	to fill gaps with seedlings
補藥	tonic
補血	to enrich the blood
補裰	to mend clothes
補覺	to make up for lost sleep
補角	supplementary angle
補語	complement (grammar)
補課	to make up missed lesson; to reschedule a class
補貨	to restock (an item); to replenish inventory
補貼	to subsidize; subsidy; allowance
補足	to bring up to full strength; to make up a deficiency
補足音程	complementary interval; addition musical interval adding to an octave
補足額	complement; complementary sum
補辦	to do sth after the time it should have been done
補過	to make up for an earlier mistake; to make amends
補選	by-election
補遺	addendum
補集	complement of a set
補電	to charge (a battery)
補養	to take a tonic or nourishing food to build up one's health
補體	complement (in blood serum)
裝	adornment; to adorn; dress
裝作	to pretend; to feign; to act a part
裝佯	affectation
裝修	to decorate; interior decoration; to fit up
裝備	equipment; to equip; to outfit
裝傻	to act stupid; to pretend to be naive
裝傻充愣	(idiom) to feign ignorance or stupidity; to pretend to be clueless
裝入	to load
裝出	to assume (an air of)
裝卸	to load or unload; to transfer; to assemble and disassemble
裝卸工	docker; longshoreman
裝可愛	to act cute; putting on adorable airs; to pretend to be lovely
裝填	to load; to fill (into a container)
裝好人	to pretend to be nice
裝嫩	to act young; to affect a youthful appearance
裝屄	to act like a pretentious prick
裝幀	binding and layout (of a book etc)
裝彈	to load (a firearm)
裝成	to pretend
裝扮	to decorate; to adorn; to dress up; to disguise oneself
裝料	to load; to charge; to feed (esp. a machine)
裝有	fitted with
裝束	attire; clothing
裝模作樣	(idiom) to put on an act; to show affectation; to indulge in histrionics
裝機	to install; installation
裝死	to play dead
裝殮	to prepare the dead body and place it in a coffin
裝洋蒜	to feign ignorance
裝滿	to fill up
裝潢	to mount (a picture); to dress; to adorn
裝甲	vehicle armor
裝甲車	armored car
裝甲車輛	armored vehicles
裝病	to feign illness; to malinger
裝瘋賣傻	(idiom) to play the fool; to feign madness; to act dumb
裝睡	to pretend to be asleep
裝神弄鬼	(lit.) to pretend to be in contact with supernatural beings (idiom); (fig.) to create a false sense of mystery; to play tricks to deceive or scare others; to engage in hocus-pocus
裝窮叫苦	to feign and complain bitterly of being poverty stricken (idiom)
裝置	to install; installation; equipment
裝置物	fixture; installation
裝聾作啞	to play deaf-mute
裝腔作勢	posturing; pretentious; affected
裝船	to load cargo onto a ship
裝萌	(slang) to act cute
裝蒜	to act stupid; to play dumb; to pretend to not know
裝袋	to bag; to fill (a bag); bagging
裝裹	to dress a corpse; shroud
裝訂	bookbinding; to bind (books etc)
裝設	to install; to fit (e.g. a light bulb)
裝貨	to load sth onto a ship etc
裝車	to load onto a vehicle
裝載	to load; to stow
裝運	to ship; shipment
裝配	to assemble; to fit together
裝配員	assembly worker
裝配工廠	assembly plant
裝配線	assembly line; production line
裝飾	to decorate; decoration; decorative
裝飾品	ornament
裝飾物	ornament; ornamentation
裝飾道具	(theater) set dressing; trim prop
裝點	to decorate; to dress up; to deck
裝點門面	lit. to decorate the front of one's store (idiom)
裟	used in 袈裟[jia1 sha1]
裡	lining; interior; inside
裡出外進	uneven; in disorder; everything sticking out
裡勾外連	to act from inside in coordination with attackers outside
裡外	inside and out; or so
裡外裡	all in all; either way
裡子	lining; (fig.) substance (as opposed to outward appearance)
裡帶	inner tube (of tire)
裡急後重	(medicine) tenesmus
裡應外合	to coordinate outside and inside offensives (idiom)
裡手	expert; left-hand side (of a machine)
裡海	Caspian Sea
裡海地鴉	(bird species of China) Turkestan ground jay; Pander's ground jay (Podoces panderi)
裡脊	(tender)loin (of pork, beef etc)
裡裡外外	inside and out
裡邊	inside
裡院	inner courtyard (in a courtyard house)
裡面	inside; interior; also pr. [li3 mian5]
裡頭	inside; interior
裨	to benefit; to aid; advantageous
裨益	benefit; advantage; profit
裨補	to remedy; to make up for; benefit
裯	bed curtain; coverlet
裰	to mend clothes
裱	to hang (paper); to mount (painting)
裱糊	to paste materials (such as paper, fabric or silk) onto walls or artworks for decoration or preservation
裱花袋	pastry bag
裱褙	to mount a picture
裲	waistcoat
裳	lower garment; skirts; petticoats
裴	(of a garment) long and flowing
裸	naked
裸像	nude (painting, sculpture etc)
裸分	(coll.) raw score (before adjustments such as bonus points for ethnic minority status etc, esp. in college entrance exams)
裸地	bare ground
裸地化	denudation
裸奔	to streak (run naked)
裸女	naked woman
裸婚	lit. naked wedding
裸子植物	gymnosperm (plants with seed contained in a cone)
裸子植物門	gymnosperm (plants with seed contained in a cone)
裸官	Communist Party official whose wife and children have left China to reside in a foreign country
裸岩	bare rock
裸戲	nude scene (in a movie)
裸替	body double (in nude scenes)
裸模	nude model; abbr. for 裸體模特|裸体模特[luo3 ti3 mo2 te4]
裸機	hardware-only device
裸泳	to swim naked; to skinny-dip
裸照	nude photograph
裸男	naked man
裸眼	naked eye
裸睡	to sleep naked
裸絞	(martial arts) rear naked choke
裸聊	to chat naked (online)
裸腳	bare foot; to be barefoot
裸袒	naked; bare
裸裎	to become naked; to undress; to expose (one's body)
裸貸	(of a woman) to take out a loan with a lender who retains nude photos or videos of the borrower as collateral
裸足	bare foot; to be barefoot
裸辭	to quit one's job (without having another one)
裸退	(neologism c. 2007) (of an official) to retire completely from all leadership positions
裸露	naked; bare; uncovered; exposed
裸露狂	exhibitionism
裸騎	to ride (a horse, bicycle etc) naked
裸體	naked
裸體主義	nudism
裸體主義者	nudist
裸鯉	naked carp (Gymnocypris przewalskii)
裸麥	rye (Secale cereale)
裹	to wrap around; bundle; parcel; package
裹包	to wrap up; parcel
裹屍布	shroud; cloth to wrap a corpse
裹挾	to sweep along; to coerce
裹脅	to compel; to coerce
裹腳	foot-binding; long strip of cloth used for foot-binding
裹足不前	to stand still without advancing (idiom); to hesitate and hold back
裼	to bare the upper body
製	to manufacture; to make
製件	workpiece
製作	to make; to manufacture
製作人	(entertainment industry) producer
製作商	maker; manufacturer
製作者	producer; maker; creator
製假	to counterfeit; to manufacture counterfeit goods
製備	to prepare; preparation (chemistry)
製冰機	ice maker
製冷	to produce cold air (to cool a room etc)
製冷劑	refrigerant
製劑	(chemical or pharmaceutical) preparation
製取	(chemistry) to produce
製品	products; goods
製售	to manufacture and sell
製圖	(cartography) to make a map
製成	to manufacture; to turn out (a product)
製成品	manufactured goods; finished product
製模	mold making
製氧機	oxygen concentrator
製油	to extract (vegetable) oil; oil extraction
製熱	to produce heat (to warm up a room etc)
製片	to produce a film; to make a movie; assistant producer
製片人	film producer
製片廠	film studio
製版	to make a plate (printing)
製程	manufacturing process; processing
製藥	to manufacture medicine
製藥企業	pharmaceutical company
製藥廠	pharmaceutical company; drugs manufacturing factory
製衣	clothing manufacture
製表	to tabulate; tabulation; scheduling
製造	to manufacture; to make
製造商	manufacturing company
製造廠	manufacturing plant; factory
製造業	manufacturing industry
製造業者	manufacturer
製造者	maker
製陶	to manufacture pottery
製陶工人	potter
製鞋匠	shoemaker; cobbler
製鞋工人	shoemaker; cobbler
裾	garment
褂	(bound form) Chinese-style unlined garment; gown
褂子	unlined upper garment
複	to repeat; to double; to overlap
複共軛	(math.) complex conjugate
複利	compound interest
複印	to photocopy; to duplicate a document
複印件	photocopy; duplicate
複印機	photocopier
複印紙	photocopier paper
複句	compound phrase
複合	complex; compound; composite
複合元音	diphthong (such as putonghua ɑi, ei etc)
複合弓	composite bow (archery)
複合材料	composite material
複合母音	diphthong; compound vowel
複合肥	compound fertilizer
複合詞	compound word
複姓	two-character surname (such as 司馬|司马[Si1 ma3] or 諸葛|诸葛[Zhu1 ge3])
複寫	to duplicate; to carbon copy
複寫紙	carbon paper
複平面	complex plane
複式	double; multiple; compound
複數	(linguistics) plural; (math.) complex number
複數域	field of complex numbers (math.), usually denoted by C
複數平面	(math.) complex plane; Argand plane
複數形式	plural form (of a countable noun)
複方	compound prescription (involving several medicines)
複本	copy
複殖吸蟲	digenetic trematode worm (i.e. from Order Digenea 複殖目|复殖目)
複殖目	Order Digenea (including trematode worms that parasite humans)
複比	compound ratio (i.e. the product of two or more ratios)
複用	to reuse
複疊	reduplication of words or syllables (as a stylistic device in Chinese)
複眼	compound eye
複線	multiple track (e.g. rail); multilane (e.g. highway)
複聽	double hearing; diplacusis
複葉	compound leaf (botany)
複製	to duplicate; to make a copy of; to copy
複製品	replica; reproduction
複視	double vision; diplopia
複詞	compound word; polysyllabic word
複試	to sit for the second round of a two-stage exam
複讀	(of an audio device) to repeat a recorded phrase (e.g. for language learning)
複變	(math.) complex variable
複變函數	function of a complex variable (math.)
複變函數論	(math.) theory of functions of a complex variable
複購	to buy again
複賽	(sports) semifinal or quarterfinal
複述	to repeat (one's own words or sb else's)
複選框	check box
複雜	complicated; complex
複雜化	to complicate; to become complicated
複雜性	complexity
複雜系統	complex system
複音形	diphthong; liaison
複音詞	disyllabic word; polysyllabic word
複韻母	compound final
褉	short garments
褊	narrow; urgent
褊狹	narrow; small-minded
褌	pants (old)
褎	sleeve; ample flowing robes
褐	brown; gray or dark color; coarse hemp cloth
褐冠山雀	(bird species of China) grey-crested tit (Lophophanes dichrous)
褐冠鵑隼	(bird species of China) Jerdon's baza (Aviceda jerdoni)
褐喉旋木雀	(bird species of China) Sikkim treecreeper (Certhia discolor)
褐喉沙燕	(bird species of China) grey-throated martin (Riparia chinensis)
褐喉食蜜鳥	(bird species of China) brown-throated sunbird (Anthreptes malacensis)
褐山鷦鶯	(bird species of China) brown prinia (Prinia polychroa)
褐岩鷚	(bird species of China) brown accentor (Prunella fulvescens)
褐林鴞	(bird species of China) brown wood owl (Strix leptogrammica)
褐柳鶯	(bird species of China) dusky warbler (Phylloscopus fuscatus)
褐河烏	(bird species of China) brown dipper (Cinclus pallasii)
褐漁鴞	(bird species of China) brown fish owl (Ketupa zeylonensis)
褐灰雀	(bird species of China) brown bullfinch (Pyrrhula nipalensis)
褐煤	lignite; brown coal
褐翅叉尾海燕	(bird species of China) Tristram's storm petrel (Hydrobates tristrami)
褐翅燕鷗	(bird species of China) bridled tern (Onychoprion anaethetus)
褐翅雪雀	(bird species of China) black-winged snowfinch (Montifringilla adamsi)
褐翅鴉雀	(bird species of China) brown-winged parrotbill (Suthora brunnea)
褐翅鴉鵑	(bird species of China) greater coucal (Centropus sinensis)
褐耳鷹	(bird species of China) shikra (Accipiter badius)
褐背地山雀	(bird species of China) ground tit (Pseudopodoces humilis)
褐背鶲鵙	(bird species of China) bar-winged flycatcher-shrike (Hemipus picatus)
褐胸噪鶥	(bird species of China) grey laughingthrush (Garrulax maesi)
褐胸山鷓鴣	(bird species of China) bar-backed partridge (Arborophila brunneopectus)
褐胸鶲	(bird species of China) brown-breasted flycatcher (Muscicapa muttui)
褐脅雀鶥	(bird species of China) rusty-capped fulvetta (Schoeniparus dubius)
褐臉雀鶥	(bird species of China) brown-cheeked fulvetta (Alcippe poioicephala)
褐色	brown
褐頂雀鶥	(bird species of China) dusky fulvetta (Schoeniparus brunneus)
褐頭山雀	(bird species of China) willow tit (Poecile montanus)
褐頭嶺雀	(bird species of China) Sillem's mountain finch (Leucosticte sillemi)
褐頭雀鶥	(bird species of China) Manipur fulvetta (Fulvetta manipurensis)
褐頭鳳鶥	(bird species of China) Taiwan yuhina (Yuhina brunneiceps)
褐頭鵐	(bird species of China) red-headed bunting (Emberiza bruniceps)
褐頭鶇	(bird species of China) grey-sided thrush (Turdus feae)
褐頭鷦鶯	(bird species of China) plain prinia (Prinia inornata)
褐馬雞	(bird species of China) brown eared pheasant (Crossoptilon mantchuricum)
褐鰹鳥	(bird species of China) brown booby (Sula leucogaster)
褐鴉雀	(bird species of China) brown parrotbill (Paradoxornis unicolor)
褒	to praise; to commend; to honor
褒呔	bow tie (loanword) (Cantonese)
褒姒	Baosi, concubine of King You of Zhou 周幽王[Zhou1 You1 wang2] and one of the famous Chinese beauties
褒揚	to praise
褒禪山	Mt Baochan in Anhui; formerly known as Mt Hua 華山|华山
褒義	commendatory sense; positive connotation
褒貶	to appraise; to pass judgment on; to speak ill of
褓	used in 襁褓[qiang3 bao3]; used in 褓姆[bao3 mu3] and 褓母[bao3 mu3]
褔	full up; classifier for items of clothing (old)
褕	loose garment
褘	a queen's ceremonial gowns
褙	paper or cloth pasted together
褚	padding (in garment); to store up; pocket
褚人獲	Chu Renhuo (1635-1682), author of historical novel Dramatized History of Sui and Tang 隋唐演義|隋唐演义[Sui2 Tang2 Yan3 yi4]
褚遂良	Chu Suiliang (596-659), one of Four Great Calligraphers of early Tang 唐初四大家[Tang2 chu1 Si4 Da4 jia1]
褟	inner shirt; to sew onto clothing
褟縧子	lace hemming
褡	pouch; sleeveless jacket
褡褳	cloth pouch open in the middle, forming two bags
褢	to carry in the bosom or the sleeve; to wrap, to conceal
褥	mattress
褥子	cotton-padded mattress
褥瘡	bedsore
褦	ignorant; sun hat
褧	monotone garment with no lining
褪	to take off (clothes); to shed (feathers); (of color) to fade
褪下	to take off (trousers); to drop one's pants
褪光	matte (of a color etc)
褪去	to take off (one's clothes); (fig.) to shed (one's former image etc)
褪套兒	(coll.) to break loose; to shake off responsibility
褪色	(of colors) to fade; also pr. [tui4shai3]
褪黑激素	(biochemistry) melatonin
褪黑素	(biochemistry) melatonin
褫	to strip; to deprive of; to discharge
褫奪	to deprive; to strip of
褯	used in 褯子[jie4 zi5]
褯子	(dialect) diaper
褰	to lift (clothes, sheets); lower garments
褱	to carry in the bosom or the sleeve; to wrap, to conceal
褲	underpants; trousers; pants
褲兜	pants pocket
褲口	trouser leg opening
褲子	trousers; pants
褲帶	belt (in trousers)
褲筒	trouser leg
褲管	trouser leg
褲腰	waist of trousers; waistband
褲腰帶	waistband
褲腳	the bottom of a trouser leg
褲腿	trouser leg
褲衩	underpants
褲裙	culottes; pantskirt
褲裝	pants (trousers, shorts etc); (Tw) pantsuit
褲襠	crotch of trousers
褲襪	pantyhose; tights
褲頭	(dialect) underpants; (swimming) trunks
褳	pouch hung from belt
褵	bride's veil or kerchief
褶	pleat; crease; Taiwan pr. [zhe2]
褶子	pleat; fold; crease
褶子了	to make a mess of sth; to bungle; to mismanage
褶曲	creasing; folding
褶皺	fold; crease; wrinkle; (geology) fold
褶皺山系	fold mountain system (geology)
褶皺山脈	fold mountain range (geology)
褸	used in 襤褸|褴褛[lan2 lu : 3]
褻	obscene; disrespectful
褻慢	irreverent; slighting
褻昵	disrespectful; overly familiar
褻服	informal wear; home clothes (old); women's underwear
褻瀆	(literary) to blaspheme; to desecrate; to profane
褻瀆神明	to blaspheme; to commit sacrilege
褽	collar
褾	cuff; border or edge (of clothing)
襁	cloth for carrying baby on back
襁褓	swaddling clothes; fig. early stage of development; infancy
襄	(literary) to assist
襄助	(literary) to aid; to assist
襄垣縣	Xiangyuan, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
襄城區	Xiangcheng, a district of Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
襄城縣	Xiangcheng, a county in Xuchang City 許昌市|许昌市[Xu3 chang1 Shi4], Henan
襄州區	Xiangzhou, a district of Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
襄汾縣	Xiangfen, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
襄理	assistant manager (in a large enterprise) (Tw); (literary) to assist
襄都區	Xiangdu, a district of Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
襄陽市	Xiangyang, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
襆	used in 襆頭|襆头[fu2 tou2]; Taiwan pr. [pu2]
襉	(dialect) fold or pleat (in clothing)
襋	coat collar
襌	garment without a lining
襏	used in 襏襫|袯襫[bo2 shi4]
襏襫	woven rush raincoat
襖	coat; jacket; short and lined coat or robe
襖子	coat; jacket; short and lined coat or robe
襚	grave-clothes
襛	bright light; warm dress
襜	the front of clothes
襞	creases; folds or pleats in a garment
襟	lapel; overlap of Chinese gown; fig. bosom (the seat of emotions)
襟兄	husband of wife's older sister
襟副翼	flaperon (aeronautics)
襟度	(literary) breadth of mind
襟弟	husband of wife's younger sister
襟懷	bosom (the seat of emotions); one's mind
襟懷坦白	open and candid (idiom); not hiding anything; ingenuous; openhearted
襟懷夷曠	broad-minded
襟抱	ambition; an aspiration
襟素	one's true heart
襟翼	(aircraft) wing flap
襠	crotch; seat of a pair of trousers
襠部	crotch
襡	short skirt or tunic
襢	unadorned but elegant dress
襤	used in 襤褸|褴褛[lan2 lu : 3]
襤褸	(of clothes) ragged; shabby
襦	jacket; short coat
襪	socks; stockings
襪套	leg warmers
襪子	socks; stockings
襪帶	garter
襪褲	leggings; tights
襫	used in 襏襫|袯襫[bo2 shi4]
襬	hem (at the bottom of a garment)
襭	carry with the front of a robe
襮	embroidered collar; expose
襯	(of garments) against the skin; to line; lining
襯墊	pad
襯托	to serve to highlight; to serve as a backdrop or contrasting element
襯線	serif (typography)
襯衣	shirt
襯衫	shirt; blouse
襯裙	petticoat
襯裡	lining
襯褲	underpants
襯頁	endpaper
襲	(bound form) to raid; to attack
襲擊	attack (esp. surprise attack); raid; to attack
襲擊者	attacker
襲胸	to grope the breasts of a woman or girl
襲警	to assault a police officer
襴	full length gown (old)
襶	untidy (in dress)
襻	button loop
襼	sleeve of dress
襽	brocade
襾	cover; radical no 146
西	the West; abbr. for Spain 西班牙[Xi1 ban1 ya2]; Spanish
西乃	Sinai
西乃山	Mount Sinai
西亞	Southwest Asia
西伯利亞	Siberia
西伯利亞銀鷗	(bird species of China) Vega gull (Larus vegae)
西來庵	Xilai Temple (Tainan, Taiwan)
西側	west side; west face
西元	(Tw) Christian era; Gregorian calendar; AD (Anno Domini)
西元前	BCE (before the Common Era); BC (before Christ)
西充縣	Xichong, a county in Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
西冷	(loanword) sirloin
西北	Northwest China (Shaanxi, Gansu, Qinghai, Ningxia, Xinjiang)
西北大學	Northwest University
西北工業大學	Northwestern Polytechnical University
西北方	northwest; northwestern
西北航空公司	Northwest Airlines
西北農林科技大學	Northwest A&F University
西北部	northwest part
西北雨	thundershower (Tw)
西區	Xi District or Xiqu, a district of Panzhihua City 攀枝花市[Pan1 zhi1 hua1 Shi4], Sichuan
西半球	the Western Hemisphere
西南	southwest
西南中沙群島	Xinanzhongsha islands, Hainan
西南亞	southwest Asia
西南交通大學	Southwest Jiaotong University
西南冠紋柳鶯	(bird species of China) Blyth's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus reguloides)
西南大學	Southwest University (Chongqing)
西南官話	Southwestern Mandarin, dialect group of Mandarin spoken primarily in southwestern China
西南栗耳鳳鶥	(bird species of China) striated yuhina (Yuhina castaniceps)
西南部	southwest part
西印度	West Indies (i.e. the Caribbean)
西吉縣	Xiji, a county in Guyuan City 固原市[Gu4 yuan2 Shi4], Ningxia
西周	Western Zhou (1027-771 BC)
西和縣	Xihe, a county in Longnan City 隴南市|陇南市[Long3 nan2 Shi4], Gansu
西哈努克	(King) Sihanouk (of Cambodia)
西單	Xidan neighborhood of central Beijing
西固區	Xigu, a district of Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
西地那非	sildenafil (virility drug) (loanword)
西坡拉	Zipporah, wife of Moses
西城區	Xicheng, a district of central Beijing
西域	Western Regions (Han Dynasty term for regions beyond Yumen Pass 玉門關|玉门关[Yu4 men2 Guan1])
西域記	Report of the regions west of Great Tang
西塔	theta (Greek letter Θθ)
西塞山區	Xisaishan, a district of Huangshi City 黃石市|黄石市[Huang2 shi2 Shi4], Hubei
西塞羅	Marcus Tullius Cicero (106–43 BC), Roman statesman, orator and philosopher
西夏	Western Xia dynasty 1038-1227 of Tangut people 黨項|党项 occupying modern Ningxia and parts of Gansu and Shaanxi, overthrown by Mongols
西夏區	Xixia, a district of Yinchuan City 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4], Ningxia
西外	abbr. for 西安外國語大學|西安外国语大学[Xi1 an1 Wai4 guo2 yu3 Da4 xue2]
西大	(Internet slang) the United States (contrasted with China 東大|东大[Dong1 da4])
西天	the Western Paradise (Buddhism)
西太平洋	the western Pacific Ocean
西奇	sygyt (overtone singing)
西奈	Sinai Peninsula
西奈半島	Sinai Peninsula
西奈山	Mount Sinai
西子	another name for Xishi 西施[Xi1 shi1]
西子捧心	(lit.) Xishi clasps at her heart (idiom)
西孟加拉邦	West Bengal
西學	Western learning (intellectual movement in the late Qing)
西安事變	Xi'an Incident of 12th December 1936 (kidnap of Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石[Jiang3 Jie4 shi2])
西安交通大學	Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)
西安區	Xi'an, a district of Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
西安外國語大學	Xi'an International Studies University (XISU)
西安市	Xi'an, sub-provincial city and capital of Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
西安電子科技大學	Xidian University
西寧市	Xining, prefecture-level city and capital of Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
西屬撒哈拉	Spanish Sahara (former Spanish colony in Africa)
西屯區	Xitun District of Taichung, Taiwan
西山區	Xishan, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
西峰區	Xifeng, a district of Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
西峽縣	Xixia, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
西崗區	Xigang, a district of Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
西嶽	Mt Hua 華山|华山 in Shaanxi, one of the Five Sacred Mountains 五嶽|五岳[Wu3 yue4]
西工區	Xigong, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
西市區	Xishi, a district of Yingkou City 營口市|营口市[Ying2 kou3 Shi4], Liaoning
西平縣	Xiping, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
西康	historic province of Tibet in Kham region and west Sichuan, a province of Republic of China 1928-49 with capital Ya'an 雅安[Ya3 an1]
西康省	western Kham
西廂記	Romance of the West Chamber by Wang Shifu 王實甫|王实甫[Wang2 Shi2 fu3]
西式	Western style
西弗	sievert (Sv), unit of radiation damage used in radiotherapy
西弗吉尼亞	West Virginia, US state
西征	punitive expedition to the west
西德	West Germany
西德尼	Sidney or Sydney (name)
西戎	the Xirong, an ancient ethnic group of Western China from the Zhou Dynasty onwards
西打	cider (loanword)
西拉	Syrah (grape type)
西拉雅族	Siraya, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
西撒哈拉	Western Sahara
西敏	Westminster, a London borough
西文	Spanish; Western language; foreign languages (in Qing times)
西斯塔尼	Sistani (name of a prominent Iraqi Ayatollah)
西斯廷	Sistine (Chapel); also written 西斯汀
西斯汀	Sistine (Chapel); also written 西斯廷
西方	the West; the Occident; Western countries
西方人	Westerner; Occidental
西方松雞	(bird species of China) western capercaillie (Tetrao urogallus)
西方極樂世界	Western Pure Land of Ultimate Bliss or Sukhavati (Sanskrit)
西方濱鷸	(bird species of China) western sandpiper (Calidris mauri)
西方狍	roe deer; capreolus capreolus
西方秧雞	(bird species of China) water rail (Rallus aquaticus)
西方馬腦炎病毒	western equine encephalitis (WEE) virus
西施	Xishi (c. 450 BC), famous Chinese beauty, foremost of the four legendary beauties 四大美女[si4 da4 mei3 nu:3], given by King Gou Jian 勾踐|勾践[Gou1 Jian4] of Yue as concubine to King of Wu as part of a successful plan to destroy Wu
西施犬	shih tzu (dog breed)
西昌	Xichang Satellite Launch Center
西昌市	Xichang, a county-level city in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
西晉	Western Jin dynasty (265-316)
西曆	Gregorian calendar; Western calendar
西替利嗪	(loanword) cetirizine
西服	suit; Western-style clothes (historical usage)
西村	Nishimura (Japanese surname)
西林縣	Xilin, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
西柚	grapefruit
西格瑪	sigma (Greek letter Σ, σ)
西格蒙德	Sigmund (name)
西格馬	sigma (Greek letter Σ, σ)
西梅	European plum (Prunus domestica), esp. prune plum; prune; dried prune
西棕胸佛法僧	(bird species) Indian roller (Coracias benghalensis)
西歐	Western Europe
西歐聯盟	Western European Union (WEU)
西江	Xijiang River
西沉	(of the sun) to set
西沙區	Xisha, a district of Sansha City 三沙市[San1 sha1 Shi4], Hainan
西沙群島	Paracel Islands, in the South China Sea
西洋	the West (Europe and North America)
西洋人	Westerner
西洋參	American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius)
西洋杉	cedar
西洋棋	chess
西洋菜	watercress (Nasturtium officinale)
西洋鏡	(old) peep show; (fig.) hanky-panky; trickery
西洛賽賓	psilocybin
西海	Yellow Sea (Korean term)
西涼	Western Liang of the Sixteen Kingdoms (400-421)
西湖	West Lake in Hangzhou 杭州[Hang2 zhou1], Zhejiang
西湖區	Xihu, a district of Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
西漢	Western Han Dynasty (206 BC-8 AD), also called 前漢|前汉[Qian2 Han4], Former Han Dynasty
西澳大利亞	Western Australia, Australian state
西澳大利亞州	Western Australia, Australian state
西烏珠穆沁旗	West Ujimqin banner or Baruun Üzemchin khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
西爪哇	West Java, province of Indonesia
西牆	Western Wall, or Wailing Wall (Jerusalem)
西王母	Xi Wangmu, Queen Mother of the West, keeper of the peaches of immortality
西班牙	Spain
西班牙人	Spaniard; Spanish person
西班牙文	Spanish (language)
西班牙港	Port-of-Spain, capital of Trinidad and Tobago
西班牙語	Spanish language
西瓜	watermelon
西瓜蟲	pill bug; roly-poly
西甲	La Liga, the top division of the Spanish football league system
西番蓮	passion flower
西番雅書	Book of Zephaniah
西疇縣	Xichou, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
西皮	one of the two chief types of music in Chinese opera
西盟佤族自治縣	Ximeng Va Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
西直門	Xizhimen neighborhood of Beijing; the main northwest gate of Beijing
西秀區	Xixiu, a district of Anshun City 安順市|安顺市[An1 shun4 Shi4], Guizhou
西科爾斯基	Sikorski (name)
西秦	Western Qin of the Sixteen Kingdoms (385-431)
西端	western extremity
西米	sago
西米德蘭茲	West Midlands, UK county, capital Birmingham 伯明翰[Bo2 ming2 han4]
西米德蘭茲郡	West Midlands, UK county, capital Birmingham 伯明翰[Bo2 ming2 han4]
西米露	tapioca pudding; sago pudding
西紅柿	tomato
西紅腳隼	(bird species of China) red-footed falcon (Falco vespertinus)
西紅角鴞	(bird species of China) Eurasian scops owl (Otus scops)
西經	west longitude
西緒福斯	Sisyphus
西耶那	Fiat Siena
西花廳	Xihuating pavilion on west side on Zhongnanhai, home to 周恩來|周恩来
西芹	celery; parsley
西華縣	Xihua, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
西萬尼	Silvaner (grape type)
西葫蘆	zucchini; courgette; baby marrow
西蒙·舒斯特	Simon and Schuster, US publisher
西薩摩亞	Western Samoa
西藏人	Tibetan (person)
西藏毛腿沙雞	(bird species of China) Tibetan sandgrouse (Syrrhaptes tibetanus)
西藏獒犬	Tibetan mastiff
西藏百萬農奴解放紀念日	Serf Liberation Day (PRC)
西藏自治區	Tibet Autonomous Region, capital Lhasa 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4] (short name 藏[Zang4])
西藝	Western skills
西藥	Western medicine
西蘭花	broccoli
西蘭苔	broccolini
西裝	suit; Western-style clothes
西裝革履	dressed in Western-style clothes; impeccably attired
西褲	dress trousers; suit trousers
西西	cubic centimeter (cc) (loanword)
西西弗斯	Sisyphus
西西里	Sicily; Sicilia (Italian Island)
西西里島	Sicily
西語	western language; Spanish (language)
西豐縣	Xifeng, a county in Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
西貢	Saigon, capital of former South Vietnam
西遊補	one of three Ming dynasty sequels to Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记
西遊記	"Journey to the West", a Ming dynasty novel by Wu Cheng'en 吳承恩|吴承恩[Wu2 Cheng2 en1], one of the Four Great Classical Novels of Chinese literature, also known as "Pilgrimage to the West" or "Monkey"
西遼	Western Liao, Khitan kingdom of central Asia 1132-1218
西邊	west; west side; western part
西部	western part
西部片	Western (film)
西鄉塘區	Xixiangtang, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
西鄉縣	Xixiang, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
西醫	Western medicine; a doctor trained in Western medicine
西里爾	Cyril (name); Saint Cyril, 9th century Christian missionary; Cyrillic
西里爾字母	Cyrillic alphabet; Cyrillic letters
西里西亞	Silesia
西門	two-character surname Ximen
西門子	Siemens (company name)
西門子公司	Siemens AG
西門慶	Ximen Qing, a fictional character in the novels "Jin Ping Mei" 金瓶梅[Jin1 ping2 mei2] and "Water Margin" 水滸傳|水浒传[Shui3 hu3 Zhuan4]
西門町	Ximending (neighborhood in Wanhua district, Taipei)
西門豹	Ximen Bao (active around 422 BC), statesman and hydraulic engineer of Wei 魏國|魏国[Wei4 guo2]
西陵區	Xiling, a district of Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
西陵峽	Xiling Gorge on the Changjiang or Yangtze, the lower of the Three Gorges 三峽|三峡[San1 Xia2]
西雅圖	Seattle, city in Washington State
西雙版納傣族自治州	Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
西雙版納粗榧	Cephalotaxus mannii (botany)
西青	Xiqing suburban district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
西青區	Xiqing suburban district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
西非	West Africa
西面	west side; west
西頓	Sidon (Lebanon)
西餐	Western-style food
西魏	Western Wei of the Northern dynasties (535-557), formed from the break-up of Wei of the Northern Dynasties 北魏
西鯡	allis shad (Alosa alosa)
西鵪鶉	(bird species of China) common quail (Coturnix coturnix)
西黃鶺鴒	(bird species of China) western yellow wagtail (Motacilla flava)
西點	Western-style pastry
西點軍校	West Point; United States Military Academy
要	to want; to need; to ask for; will; shall; about to; need to; should
要不	otherwise; or else; how about...?
要不得	intolerable; unacceptable
要不是	if it were not for; but for
要不然	otherwise; or else; or
要之	in brief; in a word
要事	important matter
要人	important person
要件	key document; important condition; criterion
要債	to demand payment of a debt; to collect a debt
要價	to ask a price; to charge
要務	key task; important affair
要命	to cause sb's death; extremely; terribly
要員	key participant; VIP
要嘛	either ...; or ...
要圖	main plan; important program
要地	strategic location
要塞	stronghold; fort; fortification
要好	to be on good terms; to be close friends
要子	straw rope
要害	vital part; (fig.) key point; crucial
要強	eager to excel; eager to get ahead in life; strong-minded
要徑	important path
要得	good; fine
要挾	to threaten; to blackmail
要擊	to intercept; to ambush
要政	important governmental or administrative matter
要旨	the gist (of a text or argument); the main points
要是	(coll.) if
要有	to need; to require; must have
要樞	important hub; key position
要樣兒	(dialect) to care about appearances; to put on a good front
要死	extremely; awfully
要死不活	half dead; more dead than alive
要死要活	terribly; awfully; desperately
要求	to request; to require; requirement
要津	strategic location; important hub; key post; prominent position
要犯	major criminal
要略	roughly; outline; summary
要目	important substance (of a document); key section
要看	(it) depends on ...
要端	the main points
要約	to restrict; to agree to a contract; offer; bid
要素	essential factor; key constituent
要緊	important; urgent
要義	the essentials
要聞	important news story; headline
要職	key job; important position
要臉	(coll.) to have a sense of shame
要著	important thing; crucial thing
要衝	road hub; major crossroad
要西了	(coll.) unbearable (Shanghainese)
要角	significant role; major figure
要言不煩	to explain in simple terms; succinct; concise
要訣	the key trick; the secret of success
要說	as for; when it comes to
要謊	to ask an enormous price (as first negotiating step)
要賬	to demand repayment; to collect debt
要路	important road; main thoroughfare; fig. key position
要道	major road; thoroughfare; main road
要錢	to charge; to demand payment
要隘	strategic pass
要領	main aspects; essentials; gist
要風得風，要雨得雨	to get whatever one wants; to have everything going one's way
要飯	to beg (for food or money)
要麼	or; either one or the other
要點	main point; essential
覂	to throw a rider
覃	surname Qin
覃塘區	Qintang, a district of Guigang City 貴港市|贵港市[Gui4 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
覃第	extensive residence; your house
覅	(dialect) must not; please don't (contracted form of 勿要[wu4 yao4])
覆	to cover; to overflow; to overturn
覆亡	fall (of an empire)
覆巢之下無完卵	lit. when the nest is upset no egg is left intact (idiom)
覆巢無完卵	lit. when the nest overturns no egg remains intact
覆核	to review; to reexamine; review
覆水難收	spilt water is difficult to retrieve (idiom)
覆沒	annihilated; capsized
覆滅	destruction
覆疊	to overlap; to overlay; cascaded (thermodynamic cycle)
覆盆子	raspberry
覆膜	membrane covering sth; coating
覆蓋	to cover
覆蓋物	mulch
覆蓋率	coverage
覆蓋面	coverage
覆轍	the tracks of a cart that overturned
覈	to investigate
見	to see; to meet; to appear (to be sth)
見不得	not fit to be seen by; should not be exposed to; can't bear to see
見不得人	shameful
見世面	to see the world; to broaden one's horizons
見亮	please forgive me
見人說人話，見鬼說鬼話	(fig.) adaptable; able to deal with various kinds of people and situations
見仁見智	opinions differ (idiom)
見光死	(lit.) to wither in the light of day
見利忘義	(idiom) to abandon moral principles in the pursuit of profit
見利思義	to see profit and remember morality (idiom); to act ethically
見到	to see
見告	(literary) to inform (me)
見地	opinion; view; insight
見報	to appear in the news; in the papers
見外	to treat sb with the formal courtesy accorded to a host or a guest
見多識廣	(idiom) experienced and knowledgeable
見天	(coll.) every day
見好就收	(idiom) to quit while one is ahead; to know when to stop
見客	to receive visitors; to receive guests
見得	to seem; to appear
見微知著	(idiom) to examine tiny clues to know general trends; to deduce the whole story from small traces
見怪	to mind; to take offense
見怪不怪	(idiom) to have seen sth so often that it doesn't seem strange at all; to be well accustomed (to sth)
見愛	(literary) to be so good as to show favor (to me); to regard (me) highly
見招拆招	to counter every move; to be full of tricks
見效	to produce the intended effect; to achieve the desired result
見教	I have been enlightened by your teaching (humble)
見方	(measurement) (after a length) square (as in "10 feet square")
見景生情	to be touched by a scene; to adapt to the situation
見機行事	to play it by ear; to use one's discretion
見狀	upon seeing this, ...; in response, ...
見獵心喜	lit. seeing others go hunting, one is excited by memories of the thrill of the hunt (idiom)
見異思遷	to change at once on seeing sth different (idiom); loving fads and novelty
見真章	to see how sb or sth performs when it comes to the crunch; to find out what sb is really made of; to witness true ability or worth revealed under pressure
見票即付	payable at sight; payable to bearer
見笑	to mock; to be ridiculed
見紅	(coll.) to bleed (esp. vaginal bleeding); to suffer a financial loss
見縫就鑽	lit. to squeeze into every crack (idiom)
見縫插針	lit. to see a gap and stick in a needle (idiom); fig. to make use of every second and every inch
見義勇為	(idiom, from the Analects) (usu. of a passer-by who comes across a critical situation) to step in and help; to take brave or selfless action
見習	to learn on the job; to be on probation
見習員	trainee
見習生	trainee; probationer
見習醫師	medical intern
見習醫生	medical intern
見聞	what one has seen and heard; knowledge; one's experience
見背	(formal) (euphemism) (of an elder) to pass away
見色忘友	to neglect one's friends when smitten with a new love
見色忘義	to forget loyalty when in love; hoes before bros
見血封喉樹	Antiaris toxicaria (botany)
見解	opinion; view; understanding
見訪	your visit (honorific); you honor me with your visit
見說	to hear what was said
見諒	please forgive me
見諸	(literary) to appear in (newspapers, the media, a book etc)
見諸行動	to translate sth into action; to put sth into action
見證	to be witness to; witness; evidence
見證人	eyewitness (to an incident); witness (to a legal transaction)
見識	to gain first-hand knowledge of sth; to experience for oneself
見財起意	seeing riches provokes evil designs
見賢思齊	Follow the example of a virtuous and wise teacher.
見錢眼開	to open one's eyes wide at the sight of profit (idiom); thinking of nothing but personal gain
見長	to excel at (typically used after the area of expertise) (Example: 以研究見長|以研究见长[yi3 yan2 jiu1 jian4 chang2] to be known for one's research)
見閻王	(coll.) to meet one's maker; to kick the bucket; to die
見面	to meet; to see each other
見面會	meet and greet; fan meeting
見面禮	gift given to sb when meeting them for the first time
見風使帆	lit. see the wind and set your sails (idiom); fig. to act pragmatically
見風使舵	lit. see the wind and set the helm (idiom); fig. to act pragmatically
見風是雨	lit. see the wind and assume it will rain (idiom); fig. gullible
見風轉舵	lit. see the wind and set the helm (idiom); fig. to act pragmatically
見馬克思	to die; lit. to visit Marx; to pass away
見駕	to have an audience (with the emperor)
見鬼	absurd; strange; (interj.) curse it!
覎	(used in place names)
覎口	Yankou, village in Zhejiang Province
規	compass; a rule; regulation
規例	regulations
規制	to regulate; rules and regulations; regulatory
規則	rule; regulation; regular; orderly; fixed
規則化	regularity
規則性	regularity
規劃	to draw up a plan; to map out a program; a plan; a program
規劃人員	planner
規劃局	planning department
規勉	to advise and encourage
規勸	to advise
規培	(of a medical graduate) to undertake standardized training (as a resident doctor in a hospital) (abbr. for 規範化培訓|规范化培训[gui1 fan4 hua4 pei2 xun4])
規定	to stipulate; to specify; to prescribe; to fix (a price); to set (a quota)
規律	rule (e.g. of science); law of behavior; regular pattern
規律性	regular
規復	to restore (deposed monarch, rule, system of laws, ecological system etc)
規整	according to a pattern; regular; orderly
規格	standard; norm; specification
規條	regulations
規模	scale; scope; extent
規模經濟	economies of scale
規正	to admonish
規率	law; pattern
規矩	lit. compass and set square; fig. established standard; rule
規矩準繩	compasses, set square, spirit level and plumbline (idiom); fig. established standard
規矩繩墨	compasses, set square and straight line marker (idiom); fig. established standard
規程	rules; regulations
規章	rule; regulation
規章制度	rules and regulations
規管	to regulate
規範	norm; standard; specification
規範化	to standardize; standardization
規範性	normal; standard
規範理論	Standard Model (of particle physics)
規約	terms (of an agreement)
規行矩步	to follow the compass and go with the set square (idiom); to follow the rules inflexibly
規訓	to discipline; to regulate through discipline; discipline
規誡	to warn (against some course); to admonish
規誨	to admonish; to instruct
規諫	to remonstrate; to warn earnestly (esp. classical written Chinese)
規避	to evade; to dodge
覓	(literary) to seek; to find
覓取	to seek; to seek out
覓句	to search for the right word (of poet)
覓食	to forage; to hunt for food; to scavenge
覓食行為	foraging
視	(literary, or bound form) to look at
視乎	to be determined by; to depend on
視亮度	apparent brightness (astronomy)
視作	to regard as; to treat as
視像	video (HK)
視力	eyesight; visual acuity
視力測定法	optometry; eyesight testing
視力表	eye chart (used by optician)
視區	field of view
視同	to regard the same as; to regard as being the same as
視同兒戲	to regard sth as a plaything (idiom); to consider unimportant
視同手足	to regard sb as a brother (idiom)
視圖	view
視如土芥	to regard as useless; to view as no better than weeds
視如寇仇	to regard as an enemy
視如己出	to regard someone else's child as one's own
視如敝屣	(lit.) to view as worn-out shoes (idiom)
視如糞土	to look upon as dirt; considered worthless
視姦	(neologism) to obsessively monitor sb's social media posts (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 視姦 "shikan", ogling; leering)
視察	to inspect; an investigation
視屏	screen (of a TV, computer etc)
視差	parallax
視損傷	visual impairment
視效	visual effect (abbr. for 視覺效果|视觉效果[shi4 jue2 xiao4 guo3])
視星等	(astronomy) apparent magnitude
視死如歸	to view death as a return home; to not be afraid of dying
視為	to view as; to see as; to consider to be
視為畏途	to view as dangerous (idiom); afraid to do sth
視為知己	to consider sb as close friend (idiom); to take into one's confidence
視界	field of vision
視盤	optic disc (anatomy); video compact disc (VCD)
視盲	blindness
視神經	optic nerve
視神經乳頭	optic disk (terminal of the optic nerve on the retina)
視神經盤	optic disk (terminal of the optic nerve on the retina)
視窗	Windows (the Microsoft operating system)
視網膜	retina
視線	line of sight
視而不見	(idiom) to turn a blind eye to; to ignore
視聽	what people see and hear; public perception; audiovisual
視聽材料	evidence of material seen and heard; oral testimony
視若無睹	to turn a blind eye to
視若路人	to view as strangers
視藝	visual arts
視覺	sight; vision; visual
視覺方言	(linguistics) eye dialect
視角	angle from which one observes an object
視訊	video (Tw)
視距	visible range
視野	field of view; (fig.) outlook; perspective
視錯覺	optical illusion
視障	visual impairment
視頻	video
視頻會議	videoconferencing; videoconference
視頻點播	video on demand (VOD)
覗	peek
覘	to observe; to spy on; Taiwan pr. [zhan1]
覘標	surveyor's beacon
覜	have an audience
覡	wizard
覥	shameful; shameless
覦	to desire passionately
親	parent; one's own (flesh and blood); relative
親事	marriage
親人	one's close relatives
親代	parent's generation; previous generation
親信	trusted aide; close associate; confidant; to put one's trust in (sb)
親們	darlings; fans; followers
親兄弟，明算帳	even with your own brother, keep clear accounts (idiom)
親切	amiable; cordial; close and dear
親力親為	to do sth oneself
親北京	pro-Beijing (stance, party etc)
親友	friends and relatives
親口	one's own mouth; fig. in one's own words; to say sth personally
親吻	to kiss; kiss
親和	to connect intimately (with); amiable; affable
親和力	(personal) warmth; approachability; accessibility
親和性	compatibility; affinity (biology)
親善	goodwill
親善大使	goodwill ambassador
親嘴	to kiss (on the mouth)
親如一家	family-like close relationship (idiom)
親如手足	as close as brothers (idiom); deep friendship
親媽	biological mother; real mom
親子	parent and child; parent-child (relationship)
親子丼	oyakodon, a donburi topped with chicken and egg (orthographic borrowing from Japanese)
親子遊	family vacation with an emphasis on activities for parents and children
親子鑒定	paternity or maternity test
親家	parents of one's daughter-in-law or son-in-law; relatives by marriage
親家公	father of one's child's spouse
親家母	mother of one's child's spouse
親密	intimate; close
親密無間	(idiom) to have a very close relationship with each other
親屬	kin; kindred; relatives
親征	to take to the field oneself (of emperor)
親情	affection; family love
親愛	dear; beloved; darling
親愛精誠	camaraderie
親戚	a relative (i.e. family relation)
親手	with one's own hands; personally
親族	relatives; members of the same family, clan, tribe etc
親暱	intimate
親朋	relatives and friends
親朋好友	friends and family; kith and kin
親本	(genetics) parent
親歷	to personally experience
親民	in touch with the people; sensitive to people's needs
親民黨	People First Party, Taiwan
親水性	hydrophilic
親水長廊	waterside promenade
親測	to try (sth) oneself
親炙	to be enlightened by direct contact with sb
親熱	affectionate; intimate; warmhearted; to show affection for
親爸	one's own father; biological father
親爹	biological father; real dad
親王	prince
親生	one's own (child) (i.e. one's child by birth); biological (parents)
親生子女	natural child
親生骨肉	one's own flesh and blood
親疏	close and distant (relatives)
親疏貴賤	close and distant, rich and poor (idiom); everyone
親眷	relatives
親眼	with one's own eyes; personally
親眼目睹	to see for oneself; to see with one's own eyes
親睦	friendly; amicable; to keep up harmonious relations (with sb)
親睦鄰邦	friendly neighboring countries
親筆	in one's own handwriting
親緣	blood relationship; genetic relationship; consanguinity
親緣關係	phylogenetic relationship
親美	pro-U.S.
親耳	with one's own ears
親膚	skin-friendly
親臨	to visit in person; to personally attend
親臨其境	to travel to a place personally (idiom)
親自	personally; in person; oneself
親自動手	to do the job oneself
親舊	relatives and old friends
親衛隊	SS or Schutzstaffel, paramilitary organization in Nazi Germany
親親	dear one; to kiss; friendly
親赴	to travel to (a place where duty calls)
親身	personally; oneself; (of experience) first-hand
親近	(of people or relationships) close; intimate
覬	to covet; to long for
覬覦	(literary) to covet; to cast greedy eyes on
覯	complete; meet unexpectedly; see
覲	(history) to have an audience with the Emperor
覲見	to have an audience (with the Emperor)
覷	to spy; watch for
覷合	to squint
覷機會	to watch for an opportunity
覷步	to spy on
覷窺	to peep at
覷糊	to squint
覷著眼	to narrow one's eyes and gaze at something with great attention
覷視	to look; to gaze
覷覷眼	myopia; nearsightedness; shortsightedness
覺	to feel; to find that; thinking
覺察	to sense; to perceive; to come to realize
覺得	to think that ...; to feel that ...; to feel (uncomfortable etc)
覺悟	to come to understand; to realize; consciousness
覺醒	to awaken; to come to realize; awakened to the truth
覽	to look at; to view; to read
覽勝	to visit scenic spots
覽古	to visit historic sites
覿	face to face
觀	Taoist monastery; palace gate watchtower; platform
觀世音	Guanyin, the Bodhisattva of Compassion or Goddess of Mercy (Sanskrit Avalokiteśvara)
觀世音菩薩	Guanyin, the Bodhisattva of Compassion or Goddess of Mercy (Sanskrit Avalokiteśvara)
觀光	to tour; sightseeing; tourism
觀光區	tourist region; sightseeing area
觀光客	tourist
觀塘	Kwun Tong district of Kowloon, Hong Kong
觀客	audience
觀察	to observe; to watch; to survey
觀察人士	observer
觀察力	power of observation; perception
觀察員	observer
觀察哨	sentry post
觀察家	observer (esp. one who analyzes social or political affairs)
觀察者	observer
觀山湖區	Guanshanhu, a district of Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
觀影	to watch a movie
觀後感	impression or feeling after visiting or watching (movies, museums etc)
觀後鏡	mirror showing a view to one's rear (including rearview mirror, side-view mirror, baby view mirror etc)
觀念	notion; thought; concept
觀想	to visualize (Buddhist practice)
觀感	one's impressions; observations
觀戰	to watch from the sidelines
觀摩	to observe and emulate; to study (esp. following sb's example)
觀星台	astronomical observatory (old)
觀景台	lookout; viewing platform; observation deck
觀望	to wait and see; to watch from the sidelines
觀止	incomparably good
觀測	to observe; to survey; observation (scientific etc)
觀測台	observatory
觀測員	observer; spotter
觀測者	observer
觀測衛星	observation satellite
觀瀾湖	Mission Hills Group (Chinese hospitality, sports and leisure company)
觀火	penetrating (vision)
觀看	to watch; to view
觀眾	spectators; audience; visitors (to an exhibition etc)
觀眾席	audience seating area
觀瞻	appearance; view; abiding impression
觀禮	to attend a ritual
觀落陰	a ritual whereby the living soul is brought to the nether world for a spiritual journey
觀覽	to view; to look at; to look sth over
觀護所	probation office
觀象臺	observatory; observation platform
觀賞	to look at sth with pleasure; to watch (sth marvelous); ornamental
觀賽	to watch a match; to attend a sporting event as a spectator
觀釁伺隙	lit. to look for holes, and observe gaps (idiom)
觀音	Guanyin, the Bodhisattva of Compassion or Goddess of Mercy (Sanskrit Avalokiteśvara)
觀音菩薩	Guanyin, the Bodhisattva of Compassion or Goddess of Mercy (Sanskrit Avalokiteśvara)
觀風	on lookout duty; to serve as lookout
觀鳥	birdwatching
觀點	point of view; viewpoint; standpoint
角	role (theater); to compete; ancient three legged wine vessel
角分符號	prime symbol (′) (math., linguistics etc)
角力	to wrestle; (fig.) to lock horns; to tussle; to wrangle
角動量	angular momentum
角化病	(medicine) keratosis
角口	(literary) to quarrel; also pr. [jiao3kou3]
角嘴海雀	(bird species of China) rhinoceros auklet (Cerorhinca monocerata)
角回	angular gyrus (convolution of the brain)
角妓	courtesan
角子	one Jiao coin (Mao, one-tenth of yuan)
角宿一	(astronomy) Spica
角尺	set square (tool to measure right angles)
角平分線	angle bisector
角度	angle; (fig.) point of view
角弓	bow decorated with animal horns
角弓反張	opitoshtonous (med.), muscular spasm of the body associated with tetanus and meningitis
角抵	wrestling; to wrestle
角朊	keratin
角柱體	prism (math.)
角椅	chair designed to fit in corner of a room
角樓	corner (between walls)
角標	subscript or superscript
角球	corner kick (in soccer); free strike in hockey
角百靈	(bird species of China) horned lark (Eremophila alpestris)
角砧	beck iron (corner of anvil)
角磨機	angle grinder
角票	banknote in Jiao units (Mao, one-tenth of yuan)
角秒符號	double prime symbol (″) (math., linguistics etc)
角膜	cornea
角膜接觸鏡	contact lens
角膜炎	keratitis (inflammation of the cornea)
角色	role; part (in a play or movie etc); also pr. [jiao3se4]
角色扮演遊戲	role-playing game (RPG)
角落	corner (of a room, courtyard etc); (fig.) remote spot; nook
角蛋白	keratin (protein forming nails and feathers etc)
角規	angle gauge; clinograph
角質	cutin; keratin
角質層	stratum corneum (outermost layer of the skin)
角質素	keratin
角逐	to tussle; to contend; to contest
角速度	angular velocity
角釘	corner bracket (for securing the corner of a picture frame etc); brad
角鋼	angle iron
角錐	pyramid
角鐵	angle iron
角門	corner gate
角閃石	hornblende (rock-forming mineral, type of amphibole)
角閥	angle valve
角頭	gang leader; mafia boss
角頻率	angular frequency
角馬	gnu; wildebeest
角鬥	to wrestle
角鬥場	wrestling ring
角鬥士	gladiator
角鴞	screech owl (genus Megascops, a.k.a. Otus)
角鷿鷈	(bird species of China) horned grebe (Podiceps auritus)
角龍	ceratopsian
觖	dissatisfied
觚	goblet; rule; law
觜	number 20 of the 28 constellations 二十八宿, approx. Orion 獵戶座|猎户座
觜宿	number 20 of the 28 constellations 二十八宿, approx. Orion 獵戶座|猎户座
觝	to butt; resist
觡	horns; antlers
解	acrobatic display (esp. on horseback) (old)
解㑊	(TCM) fatigue, often associated with muscle atony and emaciation
解乏	to relieve tiredness; to freshen up
解像力	resolving power (of a lens etc)
解像度	resolution (of images, monitors, scanners etc)
解僱	to fire; to sack; to dismiss
解元	first-placed candidate in the provincial imperial examinations (old)
解免	to avoid (difficulties); to open up a siege
解凍	to melt; to thaw; to defrost
解出	to figure out
解剖	to dissect (an animal); to analyze; anatomy
解剖刀	scalpel
解剖學	anatomy
解剖室	a dissecting room
解剖麻雀	to dissect a sparrow
解勸	to soothe; to pacify; to mollify
解包	to unpack (computing)
解厄	(literary) to save from a calamity
解吸	to de-absorb; to get a chemical out of solution
解和	to mediate (in a conflict); to pacify
解嘲	to try to cover up in an embarrassing situation; to justify oneself
解嚴	to lift restrictions (such as curfew or martial law)
解囊	lit. to loosen one's purse; fig. to give generously to help others
解圍	to lift a siege; to help sb out of trouble or embarrassment
解壓	to relieve stress; (computing) to decompress
解壓縮	to decompress; decompression (esp. computer)
解夢	to interpret a dream
解大手	(coll.) to defecate
解密	to declassify; (computing) to decrypt; to decipher
解寒	to relieve cold
解封	to lift a ban; to end a lockdown
解小手	(coll.) to urinate
解悟	to understand; to comprehend; to grasp the meaning
解悶	to relieve boredom or melancholy; a diversion
解惑	to dispel doubts; to clear up confusion
解愁	to relieve melancholy
解手	to relieve oneself (i.e. use the toilet); to solve
解放	to liberate; to emancipate; liberation
解放區	Jiefang, a district of Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
解放巴勒斯坦人民陣線	Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
解放後	after liberation (i.e. after the Communist's victory)
解放戰爭	War of Liberation (1945-49), after which the Communists 共產黨武裝|共产党武装 under Mao Zedong 毛澤東|毛泽东 took over from the Nationalists 國民政府|国民政府 under Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石
解放日	Liberation Day
解放日報	Liberation Daily, newspaper published in Shanghai
解放軍	People's Liberation Army (PRC armed forces) (abbr. for 中國人民解放軍|中国人民解放军[Zhong1 guo2 Ren2 min2 Jie3 fang4 jun1])
解放運動	liberation movement
解救	to rescue; to help out of difficulties; to save the situation
解散	to dissolve; to disband
解數	talent; ability; capability
解暑	to beat the summer heat
解析	to analyze; to resolve; (math.) analysis
解析函數	(math.) an analytic function (of a complex variable)
解析函數論	(math.) complex analytic function theory
解析幾何	analytic geometry; coordinate geometry
解析幾何學	analytic geometry; coordinate geometry
解析度	(Tw) resolution (of an image, monitor etc)
解構	to deconstruct
解毒	to detoxify; to relieve fever (in Chinese medicine)
解毒劑	antidote
解毒藥	antidote
解民倒懸	lit. to rescue the people from hanging upside down (idiom, from Mencius); to save the people from dire straits
解氣	to assuage one's anger
解決	to solve; to resolve; to settle (a problem)
解決辦法	solution; method to settle an issue
解法	solution (to a math problem); method of solving
解深密經	Sandhinir mokcana vyuha sutra, a yogic text on awareness and meditation, translated as the Wisdom of Buddha
解渴	to quench
解熱	to relieve fever
解理	cleavage (splitting of minerals such as slate along planes)
解理方向	direction of cleavage (e.g. of slate)
解理面	cleavage plane (e.g. of slate)
解甲	to remove armor; to return to civilian life
解甲歸田	to remove armor and return to the farm; to return to civilian life
解疑	to dispel doubts; to remove ambiguities
解疑釋惑	(idiom) to solve a problem; to resolve a difficult issue
解痙劑	antispasmodic (pharm.)
解痛	to relieve pain; analgesic
解百納	Cabernet (grape type)
解碼	to decode; to decipher
解碼器	decoder
解禁	to lift a prohibition
解答	to solve (a problem); to resolve (a difficulty); to provide an answer
解約	to terminate an agreement; to cancel a contract
解紛	to mediate a dispute
解綁	to unbind (e.g. a phone number from an account)
解纜	to untie a mooring rope
解耦	decoupling (electronics)
解聘	to dismiss an employee; to sack
解職	to dismiss from office; to discharge; to sack
解脫	to untie; to free; to absolve of
解膩	to relieve the greasy sensation of fatty or oily food
解藥	antidote
解說	to explain (verbally); to give a running commentary
解說員	commentator
解說詞	commentary (for a film etc); caption (for a photo etc)
解調	demodulation; to demodulate
解謎	to solve the riddle
解讀	to decipher; to decode; to interpret
解辣	to relieve the burning sensation of spicy food
解酒	to dissipate the effects of alcohol
解酲	to sober up; to sleep off the effect of drink
解酸藥	antacid
解釋	explanation; to explain; to interpret
解釋器	interpreter (computing)
解釋執行	interpreted (computer)
解釦	to unbutton; (fig.) to solve a dispute
解鈴還須繫鈴人	lit. whoever hung the bell on the tiger's neck must untie it (idiom)
解鎖	to unlock; to release
解開	to untie; to undo; to solve (a mystery)
解除	to remove; to sack; to get rid of
解離	dissociation; to break up a chemical compound into its elements
解離性人格疾患	dissociative identity disorder; multiple personality disorder
解頤	to smile; to laugh
解題	to solve problems; to explicate
解餓	to relieve hunger
解饞	to satisfy one's craving
解體	to break up into components; to disintegrate; to collapse
觥	big; cup made of horn; horn wine container
觥籌交錯	wine goblets and gambling chips lie intertwined
觩	bent upwards; taut
觫	used in 觳觫[hu2 su4]
觭	odd; one horn up and one horn down
觱	fever; tartar horn
觱慄	ancient bamboo reed instrument
觱篥	ancient bamboo reed instrument
觳	ancient measuring vessel (same as 斛); frightened
觳觫	(literary) to tremble with fear
觴	feast; goblet
觶	goblet
觷	to polish horn
觸	to touch; to make contact with sth; to stir up sb's emotions
觸動	to touch; to stir up (trouble or emotions)
觸及	to touch (physically, one's feelings etc); to touch on (a topic)
觸地得分	to score a try (sports); to score a touchdown
觸媒	(Tw) catalyst
觸屏	touchscreen
觸底	to reach the lowest point
觸怒	to anger sb; to enrage
觸感	tactile sensation; touch; feel
觸手	tentacle
觸手可及	within reach
觸手可得	within reach
觸技曲	toccata
觸控屏	touchscreen
觸控屏幕	touchscreen
觸控式螢幕	touchscreen
觸控板	(Tw) (computing) touchpad
觸控筆	(computing) stylus pen
觸控螢幕	touchscreen; touch panel
觸控點	pointing stick (for notebook computer)
觸摸	to touch
觸摸屏	touchscreen
觸摸屏幕	touchscreen
觸摸板	touchpad; trackpad
觸擊	to touch; to tap; to contact
觸景傷情	circumstances that evoke mixed feelings (idiom)
觸景生情	scene which recalls past memories (idiom); evocative of the past
觸毛	tactile hair; vibrissa; whisker
觸法	to break the law
觸犯	to violate; to offend
觸發	to trigger; to spark
觸發器	flip-flop (electronics)
觸發引信	an impact detonator
觸發清單	trigger list
觸目	to meet the eye; eye-catching; conspicuous
觸目傷心	distressing sight (idiom)
觸目驚心	lit. shocks the eye, astonishes the heart (idiom); shocking
觸碰	to touch; (fig.) to touch on (a matter)
觸礁	(of a ship) to strike a reef; (fig.) to hit a snag
觸線	to cross the line; to overdo something; to commit a crime
觸肢	pedipalp
觸腕	cephalopod tentacle
觸處	everywhere
觸覺	sense of touch; tactile sensation
觸角	antenna; feeler (esp. of arthropods)
觸診	body palpation (diagnostic method in TCM); tactile examination
觸酶	catalase (enzyme)
觸電	to get an electric shock
觸霉頭	to cause sth unfortunate to happen (to oneself or sb else)
觸類旁通	to comprehend (new things) by analogy
觸鬚	tentacles; feelers; antennae
觸鬥蠻爭	constant bickering and fighting (idiom); constantly at each other's throats
觺	(of animal horn) sharp
觼	buckle; clasp; ring
觿	ivory bodkin for undoing knots
言	words; speech; to say
言下之意	implication
言不及義	to talk nonsense (idiom); frivolous talk
言不可傳	impossible to put into words; inexpressible
言不由衷	to say sth without meaning it (idiom); to speak tongue in cheek
言不盡意	(conventional letter ending) words cannot fully express what is in my heart (idiom)
言中	to have one's words prove to be prophetic
言之有物	(of one's words) to have substance
言之無物	(of a writing etc) to have no substance (idiom); to carry no weight
言之鑿鑿	(idiom) to speak with conviction
言傳	to convey in words
言傳身教	to teach by words and example (idiom)
言喻	to describe; to put into words
言外之意	(idiom) unspoken implication; the actual meaning of what was said
言多必失	if you say too much, you're bound to slip up at some point (idiom)
言字旁	name of "speech" or "words" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 149)
言官	imperial censor
言必信，行必果	one must be a man of his word and resolute in his work (proverb)
言情	(of a movie, novel etc) portraying a love affair; romantic; sentimental
言情小說	romance novel; romantic fiction
言教	to give verbal instruction
言教不如身教	Explaining in words is not as good as teaching by example (idiom). Action speaks louder than words.
言明	to state clearly
言歸於好	to become reconciled; to bury the hatchet
言歸正傳	to return to the topic (idiom); to get back to the main point
言為心聲	one's words reflect one's thinking (idiom)
言猶在耳	words still ringing in one's ears (idiom)
言簡意賅	concise and comprehensive (idiom)
言者無意，聽者有心	to take a casual remark to heart (idiom)
言者無罪，聞者足戒	don't blame the speaker, take note of his warning (idiom); an exhortation to speak one's mind without fear of reprisals, and with the expectation of being taken seriously
言而有信	to speak and keep one's promise (idiom); as good as one's word
言而無信	(idiom) untrustworthy; not true to one's word
言聽計從	to see, hear and obey (idiom); to take advice; to take sb at his word
言行	words and actions; what one says and what one does
言行一致	(idiom) one's actions are in keeping with what one says
言行不一	(idiom) to say one thing and do another
言行不符	(idiom) to say one thing and do another
言行若一	(idiom) one's actions are in keeping with what one says
言語	words; speech; (spoken) language
言語缺陷	speech defect
言說	to speak of; to refer to
言談	discourse; words; utterance
言談林藪	articulate in speech (idiom); eloquent
言論	expression of opinion; views; remarks
言論機關	the press; the media
言論界	the press; the media
言論自由	freedom of speech
言辭	words; expression; what one says
言近旨遠	simple words with a profound meaning (idiom)
言過其實	(idiom) to exaggerate; to overstate the facts
言重	to speak seriously; to exaggerate
訁	"speech" or "words" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 149)
訂	to agree; to conclude; to draw up
訂位	to reserve a seat; to book a table; reservation
訂做	to make to order; to have sth made to order
訂出	to lay down (a rule, a plan of action); to draw up
訂單	(purchase) order
訂單號	order number
訂婚	to get engaged
訂定	to set; to designate; to stipulate
訂戶	subscriber (to a newspaper or periodical)
訂房	to reserve a room
訂明	to stipulate; to state expressly
訂書機	stapler
訂書釘	staple (stationery)
訂書針	staple
訂正	to make a correction
訂票	to book tickets; to issue tickets
訂立	to conclude (treaty, contract, agreement etc); to set up (a rule etc)
訂製	custom-made; made-to-order; to have sth custom made
訂貨	to order goods; to place an order
訂費	subscription (rate)
訂購	to place an order; to subscribe
訂購者	subscriber
訂金	an initial payment; earnest money; deposit
訂閱	subscription; to subscribe to
訃	to report a bereavement; obituary
訃告	obituary
訃文	obituary notice
訃聞	obituary
訄	(literary) to coerce sb; to compel sb
訇	sound of a crash
計	to calculate; to compute; to count
計件工資	piece rate wage; remuneration based on one's output
計價	to valuate; valuation
計價器	fare meter; taximeter
計分	to calculate the score
計分卡	scorecard
計分環	scoring ring (on shooting target)
計劃	plan; project; program
計劃報廢	planned obsolescence
計劃性報廢	planned obsolescence
計劃生育	family planning
計劃經濟	planned economy
計提	to set aside; to make provision for (capital requirements)
計數	to count; reckoning
計數器	counter; register
計數法	calculation; reckoning
計數率儀	ratemeter
計數管	counter
計時	to measure time; to time; to reckon by time
計時器	timer
計時工資	payment by the hour; time-rate wages (opposite: piece-rate wage 計件工資|计件工资[ji4 jian4 gong1 zi1])
計時比賽	time trial (e.g. in cycle race); timed race
計時法	time reckoning
計時炸彈	time bomb
計時賽	time trial (e.g. in cycle race); timed race
計步	to count steps taken while walking or running
計步器	pedometer
計生	planned childbirth; birth control; family planning
計票	count of votes
計程車	(Tw) taxi; cab
計策	stratagem
計算	to calculate; to compute; to consider; to think over
計算器	calculator; calculating machine
計算尺	slide rule
計算攝影	computational photography
計算數學	computational mathematics; numerical mathematics
計算機	computer; (Tw) calculator
計算機動畫	computer animation
計算機可讀	computer-readable; machine-readable
計算機工業	computer industry
計算機模擬	computer simulation
計算機科學	computer science
計算機科學家	computer scientist
計算機製圖	computer graphics
計算機輔助設計	CAD computer-aided design
計算機集成製造	computer-integrated manufacturing (CIM)
計算複雜性	computational complexity (math.)
計謀	stratagem; scheme
計議	to deliberate; to talk over; to plan
計較	to bother about; to haggle; to bicker
計都	Ketu (Sanskrit), one of the nine celestial bodies of Indian astronomy and astrology, paired with Rahu 羅睺|罗睺[Luo2 hou2]
計酬	to calculate the payment for the work sb has done (based on hours completed or items produced etc)
計量	measurement; to calculate
計量制	system of weights and measures
計量棒	measuring rod; dipstick
訊	(bound form) to ask; to inquire
訊問	to interrogate; to ask about
訊息	information; news; message; text message; SMS
訊框中繼	frame relay (telecommunications)
訊號	signal
訌	strife; disorder; rioting
討	to invite; to provoke; to demand or ask for
討乞	to go begging; to ask for alms
討人	(old) girl trafficked into a brothel to work as prostitute
討人厭	horrid
討人喜歡	to attract people's affection; charming; delightful
討人嫌	unpleasant; disagreeable
討伐	to suppress by armed force; to send a punitive expedition against
討便宜	to look for a bargain; to seek advantage
討俏	deliberately provocative; saucy
討保	to ask for bail money
討債	to demand repayment
討價還價	to haggle over price; to bargain
討厭	to dislike; to loathe; disagreeable
討厭鬼	disgusting person; slob
討取	to ask for; to demand
討吃	to beg for food
討喜	endearing; charming; likable
討好	to get the desired outcome; to win favor by fawning on sb
討好賣乖	to curry favor by showing obeisance (idiom)
討嫌	disagreeable; hateful; a pain in the neck
討小	(coll.) to take a concubine
討巧	to act cleverly to get what one desires
討平	to put down (an uprising); to pacify
討底	to enquire; to demand details
討拍	(Tw) (coll.) to seek sympathy
討擾	I beg to disturb you; I trespass on your hospitality
討教	to consult; to ask for advice
討海	to make one's living from the sea
討生活	to eke out a living; to live from hand to mouth; to drift aimlessly
討究	to investigate
討米	to beg for food
討薪	to seek unpaid wages
討要	to insistently ask for; to demand
討論	to discuss; to talk over
討論區	forum (esp. online); discussion area; feedback
討論會	symposium; discussion forum
討論班	seminar; workshop
討賬	to demand payment; to collect overdue payment
討還	to ask for sth back; to recover
討飯	to ask for food; to beg
討饒	to beg for mercy; to ask for forgiveness
訏	to boast; great; large
訐	to accuse; to pry
訑	arrogant; mean
訒	(literary) slow in speech
訓	to teach; to train; to admonish
訓令	order; instruction
訓導職務	(Christianity) a preaching ministry
訓導處	(Tw) dean of students office; disciplinary office
訓斥	to reprimand; to rebuke; to berate
訓條	instruction; order; maxim
訓民正音	Korean text HunMin JongUm promulgated by Sejong Daewang in 1418 to introduce hangeul
訓獸術	animal training; taming wild beast (e.g. lion-taming)
訓示	to admonish; instructions; orders
訓練	to train; to drill; training
訓練場	training ground
訓練營	training camp
訓練者	trainer
訓育	pedagogy; to instruct and guide
訓詁	to interpret and make glossaries and commentaries on classic texts
訓詁學	study of classic texts, including interpretation, glossaries and commentaries
訓詞	instruction; admonition
訓話	to admonish subordinates
訓誡	to reprimand; to admonish; to lecture sb
訓讀	a reading of a written Chinese word derived from a synonym (typically, a vernacular synonym) (e.g. in Mandarin, 投子[tou2 zi5] may be pronounced as its synonym 色子[shai3 zi5], and in Wu dialects, 二 is pronounced as its synonym 兩|两 "liahn")
訓迪	guidance; to instruct; pedagogy
訓釋	to explain; to interpret; interpretation
訕	to mock; to ridicule; to slander
訕笑	to ridicule; to mock
訕臉	impudent
訕訕	embarrassed
訖	finished
託	to trust; to entrust; to be entrusted with
託夢	(of the spirit of a deceased person) to appear in sb's dream to communicate a message
託詞	to make an excuse; pretext; excuse
記	to record; to note; to memorize
記不住	can't remember
記事	to keep a record of events; record
記事冊	notebook containing a record
記事本	notebook; paper notepad; laptop computer
記事簿	a memo book (recording events)
記仇	to hold a grudge
記住	to remember; to bear in mind; to learn by heart
記作	(math.) to be written using the following notation
記傳	history and biography
記分	to keep score
記在心裡	to keep in mind; to store in one's heart; to remember perfectly
記工	to record work points 工分[gong1 fen1]
記工員	work-point recorder
記帳員	bookkeeper
記得	to remember
記念	to commemorate; to honor the memory of (variant of 紀念|纪念[ji4 nian4])
記性	memory (ability to retain information)
記恨	to bear grudges
記憶	to remember; to recall; memory
記憶力	faculty of memory; ability to remember
記憶化	memoization (computing)
記憶卡	memory card
記憶器	memristor (memory transistor)
記憶廣度	memory span
記憶棒	(Sony) memory stick
記憶猶新	to remain fresh in one's memory (idiom)
記憶電路	memory circuit
記憶體	(Tw) (computer) memory
記掛	(dialect) to keep thinking about (sth); to have (sth) on one's mind
記敘	to narrate; narrative
記敘文	narrative writing; written narration
記法	notation
記為	denoted by
記牢	to commit to memory
記者	reporter; journalist
記者招待會	press conference
記者會	press conference
記者站	correspondent post; correspondent station
記號	mark; symbol; notation
記號筆	(permanent) marker (pen)
記譜	to notate music; to write a score
記譜法	method of music notation
記賬	to keep accounts; to do bookkeeping; to charge to an account
記起	to recall; to recollect
記載	to write down; to record; written account
記述	to write an account (of events)
記過	to give sb a demerit
記錄	to record; record (written account); note-taker
記錄員	recorder
記錄器	recorder
記錯	to remember incorrectly
訛	error; false; to extort
訛人	to blackmail; to extort
訛傳	unfounded rumor; to pass on a mistaken belief to others
訛字	erroneous character; typographical error
訛詐	to extort under false pretenses; to blackmail; to bluff
訛誤	error in a text; text corruption
訛謬	error; mistake
訝	astounded
訝異	to be surprised; to be astonished
訟	litigation
訟案	lawsuit
訟棍	(derog.) person who instigates lawsuits or otherwise exploits litigation for personal gain; legal shyster
訢	pleased; delighted; happy
訣	to bid farewell; tricks of the trade
訣別	to bid farewell; to part (usually with little hope of meeting again)
訣竅	secret; trick; knack
訥	to speak slowly; inarticulate
訥河市	Nehe, a county-level city in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
訥澀	clumsy in speech; tongue tied
訥訥	(of speech) indistinct; mumbling; hesitating
訧	fault; mistake
訪	(bound form) to seek by inquiry; (bound form) to visit; to call on
訪古	to search for ancient relics
訪員	(old) reporter; journalist
訪問	to visit; to call on (a person or place)
訪問者	interviewer
訪問量	(web counter) hits
訪客	visitor; caller
訪尋	to enquire; to search
訪師求學	to seek a teacher desiring to study
訪惠聚	program of visiting Muslim households in Xinjiang to monitor them, begun in 2014 (abbr. for 訪民情、惠民生、聚民心|访民情、惠民生、聚民心[fang3 min2 qing2 , hui4 min2 sheng1 , ju4 min2 xin1])
訪朝	to visit North Korea
訪查	to investigate
訪求	to seek; to search for
訪港	to visit Hong Kong
訪美	to visit the USA
訪臺	to visit Taiwan
訪華	(formal) (international relations) to visit China
訪親問友	to visit friends and relations (idiom)
訪談	to visit and discuss; to interview
訪貧問苦	to visit the poor and ask about their suffering (idiom)
訬	clamor; uproar; annoyance
設	to set up; to put in place; (math.) given; suppose; if
設伏	to prepare an ambush; to waylay
設備	equipment; facilities; installations
設圈套	to scam; to set a trap; to set up a scheme to defraud people
設定	to set; to set up; to install
設宴	to host a banquet
設局	to set a trap
設崗	to post a sentry
設廠	to establish a factory
設得蘭群島	Shetland Islands
設想	to imagine; to assume; to envisage
設或	if
設攤	to set up a vendor's stand
設施	facilities; installation
設有	to have; to incorporate; to feature
設法	to try; to make an attempt; to think of a way (to accomplish sth)
設立	to set up; to establish
設置	to set up; to install
設色	to paint; to color
設若	if
設計	to design; to plan; design; plan
設計師	designer; architect
設計程序	design process
設計者	designer; architect (of a project)
設計規範	design norm; planning regulations
設身處地	to put oneself in sb else's shoes
設防	to set up defenses; to fortify
設限	to set a limit; to impose a restriction
許	to allow; to permit; to promise
許下	to make a promise
許下願心	to express a wish (to a deity)
許久	for a long time; for ages
許仲琳	Xu Zhonglin or Chen Zhonglin 陳仲琳|陈仲琳[Chen2 Zhong4 lin2] (c. 1567-c. 1620), Ming novelist, to whom the fantasy novel Investiture of the Gods 封神演義|封神演义[Feng1 shen2 Yan3 yi4] is attributed, together with Lu Xixing 陸西星|陆西星[Lu4 Xi1 xing1]
許信良	Hsu Hsin-liang (1941-), Taiwanese politician
許可	to allow; to permit
許可協議	licensing agreement (for intellectual property)
許可證	license; authorization; permit
許和	to allow; permit
許地山	Xu Dishan (1893-1941), journalist, publisher and novelist
許多	many; a lot of; much
許婚	to become engaged; to affiance (a daughter)
許嫁	allowed to marry
許字	betrothed
許廑父	Xu Qinfu (1891-1953), journalist and writer
許慎	Xu Shen (-147) the compiler of the original Han dynasty dictionary Shuowen Jiezi 說文解字|说文解字[Shuo1 wen2 Jie3 zi4]
許旺細胞	Schwann cell (support axon of nerve cell); neurolemmocyte
許昌市	Xuchang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
許海峰	Xu Haifeng (1957-), PRC sharpshooter, 50m pistol gold medalist at Los Angeles 1984 Olympics
許親	to accept a marriage proposal
許諾	to promise; to pledge
許配	to betroth a girl (in arranged marriages)
許願	to make a wish; to make a vow; to promise a reward
許願井	wishing well
許願池	wishing pond
訴	to complain; to sue; to tell
訴冤	to complain; to vent one's grievances
訴求	to demand; to call for; to petition; demand; wish; request
訴狀	indictment; plea; complaint
訴苦	to grumble; to complain; grievance
訴訟	lawsuit
訴訟中	pendente lite; during litigation
訴訟法	procedural law
訴說	to recount; to tell of; to relate
訴諸	to appeal (to reason, sentiment, charity etc)
訴諸公論	to appeal to the public
訴述	to narrate; to tell of
訴願	to appeal; an appeal (law)
訶	to scold
訶子	chebulic myrobalan (Terminalia chebula)
訹	to beguile with false stories
診	to examine or treat medically
診室	consulting room
診所	clinic
診斷	to diagnose
診治	to diagnose and treat
診療	diagnosis and treatment
診脈	to feel the pulse (TCM); Taiwan pr. [zhen3 mo4]
診費	medical fees
診間	examination room (in a doctor's office)
註	to annotate; to provide explanatory notes on a written text
註冊	to register; to enroll
註冊商標	registered trademark
註冊會計師	certified public accountant
註定	to foreordain
註疏	commentary and subcommentary (of a book)
註腳	footnote
註解	to annotate; annotation; comment
註銷	to cancel; to annul; to deregister; (accounting) to write off
註音法	phonetic transcription; system of representing spoken sounds
証	to admonish
訾	to calculate; to assess; wealth
詀	garrulous; to whisper; to joke
詁	to comment; to explain
詅	to sell
詆	to defame; to slander
詆毀	to vilify; to slander; vilification
詈	to curse; to scold
詈罵	(literary) to scold; to abuse
詈詞	insult; curse
詊	pleasing; clever talk
詎	how (interj. of surprise)
詐	to cheat; to swindle; to pretend
詐冒	to claim ownership (of stolen goods)
詐取	to swindle; to defraud
詐唬	to bluff; to bluster; to intimidate
詐屍	sudden movement of a corpse (superstition)
詐晴	to clear up (of weather after rain)
詐欺	fraud; deception
詐死	to feign death; to fake death
詐病	to feign illness; to malinger
詐語	falsehood; lies; fabrication
詐降	feigned surrender
詐領	to defraud; to obtain by fraud; to embezzle
詐騙	to defraud; to swindle; to blackmail
詐騙罪	fraud
詑	cheat
詒	(archaic) to present; to bequeath
詔	(literary) to admonish; (bound form) imperial edict
詔令	imperial order
詔安縣	Zhao'an, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
詔旨	imperial edict
詔書	imperial edict
詔獄	imperial prison (for prisoners detained by order of the emperor)
詔諭	imperial decree
評	to discuss; to comment; to criticize
評事	to discuss and evaluate; to appraise
評介	to review (a book)
評估	to evaluate; to assess; assessment
評價	to evaluate; to assess
評價分類	to assess and classify
評價量規	rubric (i.e. a guide listing specific criteria for grading)
評分	to grade; to mark (student's work); grade
評判	to judge (a competition); to appraise
評卷	to grade exam papers
評委	evaluation committee; judging panel
評委會	judging panel; panel of judges; review committee (abbr. for 評審委員會|评审委员会[ping2 shen3 wei3 yuan2 hui4])
評定	to evaluate; to make one's judgment
評審	to appraise; to evaluate; to judge
評審團	jury; panel of judges
評審團特別獎	Special Jury Prize, award at the Venice Film Festival
評彈	pingtan, a traditional Suzhou narrative art that combines storytelling and ballad singing, typically performed by two artists
評斷	to judge
評書	pingshu, a folk art where a single performer narrates stories from history or fiction
評比	to evaluate (by comparison)
評為	to elect as; to choose as; to consider as
評獎	to determine the recipient of an award through discussion
評理	to judge between right and wrong; to reason things out
評章	to appraise
評級	rating
評註	to annotate; annotation; commentary
評話	storytelling dramatic art dating back to Song and Yuan periods, single narrator without music, often historical topics with commentary
評語	comment; evaluation
評說	to comment; to evaluate
評論	to comment on; to discuss; comment
評論區	comments section
評論員	commentator
評論家	critic; reviewer
評議	to appraise through discussion
評議會	council
評述	to comment on; commentary
評選	to select on the basis of a vote or consensus
評鑑	evaluation; assessment
評閱	to read and appraise
評頭品足	to make idle remarks about a woman's appearance (idiom)
評頭論足	lit. to assess the head and discuss the feet (idiom); minute criticism of a woman's appearance
評騭	to evaluate; to appraise
評點	to comment; a point by point commentary
詖	unfair; to flatter
詗	(literary) to spy; to pry into
詘	to bend; to yield; to exhaust
詛	curse; swear (oath)
詛咒	to curse
詝	wisdom
詞	word; statement; speech; lyrics
詞不達意	words do not convey the meaning; poorly expressed; senseless
詞人	writer of 詞|词[ci2] (a kind of Classical Chinese poem)
詞人墨客	(idiom) writer; wordsmith
詞位	lexeme
詞元	(computing) token (in NLP and AI)
詞典	dictionary
詞典學	lexicography
詞句	words and sentences
詞尾	suffix
詞幹	word stem (in linguistics)
詞序	word order
詞庫	word stock; lexicon
詞彙	vocabulary; list of words (e.g. for language teaching purposes); word
詞彙學	lexicology (linguistics)
詞形	form of words (e.g. inflection, conjugation); morphology (linguistics)
詞性	part of speech (noun, verb, adjective etc); lexical category
詞性標註	part-of-speech tagging
詞意	meaning of word; sense
詞族	word family (cognate words within a given language)
詞根	(linguistics) root
詞根語	(linguistics) analytic language
詞條	entry (in a dictionary)
詞法	morphology (linguistics); word formation and inflection
詞源	etymology; origin of a word
詞牌	names of the tunes to which 詞|词[ci2] poems are composed
詞目	headword (in a dictionary)
詞眼	key word
詞窮	to not know what to say; to be lost for words
詞約指明	concise but unambiguous (idiom)
詞素	morpheme
詞組	phrase (grammar)
詞綴	prefix or suffix of a compound word; affix (linguistics)
詞義	meaning of a word
詞翰	book; written composition; (literary) penned words
詞藻	rhetoric; flowery language
詞訟	lawsuit; legal case
詞訟費	legal fees; costs (of a lawsuit)
詞話	form of writing novels that comprise lots of poetry in the body of the text, popular in the Ming Dynasty
詞語	word (general term including monosyllables through to short phrases)
詞項	lexical item
詞項邏輯	(philosophy) term logic; syllogistic logic
詞頭	prefix; headword (in a dictionary)
詞頻	word frequency
詞類	(linguistics) part of speech; word class; lexical category
詠	to sing
詠嘆調	aria
詠春	Wing Chun; same as 詠春拳|咏春拳[yong3 chun1 quan2]
詠春拳	Yongchun - "Singing Spring Fist" (Chinese martial art)
詡	to brag; popular; lovely
詢	to ask about; to inquire about
詢價	quotation request; price inquiry; price check
詢問	to inquire; to ask about
詢問台	information desk
詢查	to make inquiries
詢根問底	lit. to examine roots and inquire at the base (idiom); to get to the bottom of sth
詢盤	inquiry
詣	to go (to visit a superior)
詣謁	to pay a visit to
詣門	to visit sb
詣闕	(old) to go to the palace to see the emperor
試	to test; to try; experiment
試一試	to have a try
試乘	test drive
試作	to attempt; test run
試做	to try doing (sth) to see how well it turns out; to experiment
試劑	reagent
試卷	examination paper; test paper
試吃品	food sample
試問	I would like to ask (usually used rhetorically); one might well ask
試圖	to attempt; to try
試場	exam room
試婚	trial marriage; to live together before deciding whether to marry
試客	product tester; trial user (often receiving free or discounted items in exchange for feedback)
試射	to test-fire; to conduct a missile test
試工	to work for a trial period; worker on probation
試想	to consider (a cogent point) (usu. used as an imperative – "Think about it: ...")
試手	to work for a trial period; worker on probation
試探	to sound out; to probe; to feel out
試探性	exploratory; tentative
試播	trial broadcast
試映	preview (of a movie); trial screening
試杯	Petri dish; test dish; trial slide
試樣	style; type; model
試水	to run water through a system to test it (for leakages etc)
試水溫	to test the waters
試液	reagent; test solution; experimental liquid
試演	audition; dress rehearsal; preview (of a theatrical performance)
試煉	to refine with fire
試爆	trial explosion; nuclear test
試玩	to try out (a game, toy etc)
試用	to try sth out; to be on probation
試用品	trial product
試用期	trial period; probationary period
試用本	inspection copy (of a textbook etc); trial edition
試種	test planting; crop grown on a trial basis
試穿	to try wearing clothes; fitting trial
試算表	spreadsheet; trial balance (accountancy)
試管	test tube
試管受孕	in vitro fertilisation; test tube fertilisation
試管嬰兒	test tube baby
試紙	(chemistry, medicine) test strip
試聽	audition; to give sb an audition; to check by listening
試聽帶	demo recording (music)
試航	test flight (of aircraft); sea trial (of ship)
試著	(coll.) to try to
試藥族	people who participate in clinical trials
試行	to try out; to test
試衣	to try on (clothes); fitting
試衣間	fitting room
試表	to take temperature
試製	to try out a new product (or manufacturing process); prototype
試試看	to give it a try
試讀	to read a sample chapter of a book
試車	to test drive; a trial run
試辦	to try sth out; trial; pilot scheme
試金	assay
試金石	touchstone; fig. test that sth is genuine
試銷	trial sale; test marketing
試錯	trial and error (abbr. for 嘗試錯誤法|尝试错误法[chang2 shi4 cuo4 wu4 fa3])
試鏡	to take a screen test; to audition; screen test
試鏡頭	screen test
試題	exam question; test topic
試飛員	test pilot
試飲	to taste (wine etc)
試驗	experiment; test; to experiment
試驗場	experimental station
試驗性	experimental
試驗間	test room
試點	test point; to carry out trial; pilot scheme
詨	kind of cicada, cosmopsaltria
詩	abbr. for Shijing 詩經|诗经[Shi1 jing1], the Book of Songs
詩人	bard; poet
詩仙	"immortal of poetry", epithet of Li Bai 李白[Li3 Bai2]
詩作	poem; poetic works
詩句	verse
詩壇	poetry circles; poetry world
詩律	meters and forms of versification; prosody
詩情畫意	picturesque charm; idyllic appeal; poetic grace
詩意	poetry; poetic quality or flavor
詩文	poetry and literature
詩曰	a poem goes:
詩書	the Book of Songs 詩經|诗经[Shi1 jing1] and the Book of History 書經|书经[Shu1 jing1]
詩歌	poem
詩畫	poetry and pictorial art; work of art combining pictures and poetry
詩禮	the classics a Confucian scholar must read (such as The Book of Songs 詩經|诗经[Shi1 jing1] and The Book of Rites 禮記|礼记[Li3 ji4])
詩稿	verse manuscript
詩節	stanza
詩篇	a poem; a composition in verse
詩經	Shijing, the Book of Songs, early collection of Chinese poems and one of the Five Classics of Confucianism 五經|五经[Wu3 jing1]
詩聖	"sage of poetry", epithet of Du Fu 杜甫[Du4 Fu3]
詩詞	verse
詩話	notes on poetry, an essay genre consisting of informal commentary on poems and poets and their lives (old)
詩集	poetry anthology
詩體	poetic form or genre
詫	to be surprised; to be astonished
詫異	flabbergasted; astonished
詬	disgrace; to revile
詬病	to denounce; to castigate
詬罵	to revile; to abuse verbally
詭	(bound form) sly; crafty; (literary) weird; bizarre
詭異	strange; weird
詭祕	secretive; furtive; surreptitious
詭笑	smirk; insincere smile
詭計	trick; ruse; crafty scheme
詭計多端	deceitful in many ways (idiom); wily and mischievous
詭詐	sly; treacherous
詭譎	(literary) strange; unpredictable
詭譎多變	(idiom) unpredictable; ever-changing
詭辯	specious arguments; sophistry
詭辯家	sophist; one who relies on specious arguments
詭辯術	specious arguments; sophistry
詮	to explain; to comment; to annotate
詮解	to explain (a text)
詮註	notes and commentary; exegesis
詮釋	to interpret; to comment and explain; to annotate
詮釋學	hermeneutics
詮釋資料	metadata
詰	(bound form) to question closely; to interrogate
詰問	to ask questions; to interrogate
話	dialect; language; spoken words
話不投機	(idiom) not on the same wavelength; unable to have a congenial conversation; to not see eye to eye
話不投機半句多	(idiom) when views are irreconcilable, it's a waste of breath to continue discussion
話中有刺	one's words carry barbs; one's remarks are sarcastic
話中有話	one's words carry an implicit meaning
話事人	(coll.) (from Cantonese) the boss; the big cheese; the top dog
話亭	telephone booth
話別	to say a few parting words; to bid goodbye
話到嘴邊	to be on the verge of saying what is on one's mind
話到嘴邊留三分	A still tongue makes a wise head. (idiom)
話劇	stage play; modern drama
話務員	phone operator
話匣子	phonograph or radio (old term); chatterbox; talkative person
話卡	calling card (telephone)
話又說回來	(but) then again; (but) on the other hand
話本	Song and Yuan literary form based on vernacular folk stories
話柄	a pretext for gossip; a matter for derision
話梅	plum candy; preserved plum
話癆	chatterer
話筒	microphone; (telephone) receiver; handset; megaphone
話舊	to reminisce
話茬	tone of voice; topic; subject under discussion
話術	manipulative talk; (sales) patter
話裡套話	to use seemingly innocent conversation topics as a pretext to glean information
話裡有話	one's words carry an implicit meaning
話語	words; speech; utterance
話語權	ability to have one's say and be listened to; influence; clout
話說	It is said that ... (at the start of a narrative)
話說回來	(but) then again; (but) on the other hand
話費	call charge
話鋒	topic under discussion; direction or tone of the conversation
話鋒一轉	to change the direction or tone of a conversation
話雖如此	be that as it may
話音	one's speaking voice; tone; implication
話頭	subject (under discussion); thread (of an argument)
話題	subject (of a talk or conversation); topic
該	should; ought to; probably
該亞	Gaea, the Earth Goddess and mother of the Titans
該博	erudite; broad and profound; learned
該應	should
該死	Damn it!; damned; wretched
該當	should; to deserve
該隱	Cain (name)
詳	detailed; comprehensive
詳備	detailed
詳和	serene; calm
詳夢	to analyze dreams (for fortune-telling)
詳密	detailed; meticulous
詳實	detailed and reliable; full and accurate
詳情	details; particulars
詳略	concise; the details in brief
詳盡	thorough and detailed; exhaustive; the tedious details in full
詳盡無遺	exhaustive; thorough
詳細	detailed; in detail; minute
詳見	for further details, refer to
詳解	to explain in detail; detailed answer
詳述	to recount
詵	to inform; to inquire
詹	(literary) verbose; (literary) to arrive, to reach
詹天佑	Zhan Tianyou (1861-1919), Chinese railroad engineer
詹姆斯	James (name); LeBron James (1984-), NBA player
詹姆斯·喬伊斯	James Joyce (1882-1941), Irish modernist writer, author of Ulysses and Finnegans Wake
詹姆斯·高斯林	James Gosling (1955-), Canadian computer scientist, co-inventor of the Java programming language
詹姆斯·龐德	James Bond
詹森	Johnson
詹江布爾	Janjanbureh river and city in Gambia
詻	harsh; forbidding
詼	whimsical; humorous
詼諧	humorous; jocular; zany
詿	to deceive; to disturb
誂	to tempt
誃	to separate
誄	to eulogize the dead; eulogy
誅	to put (a criminal) to death; to punish
誅九族	to execute all of sb's relatives (as punishment) (old)
誅心	to criticize sb for what one believes to be their ulterior motive
誅心之論	a devastating criticism; to expose hidden motives
誅戮	to put to death
誅暴討逆	to wipe out the villains (e.g. insurgents, or people of another race)
誅殺	to kill; to murder
誅求	exorbitant demands; demanding with menaces; extortion
誅求無厭	(idiom) to relentlessly make excessive demands
誅求無已	to make endless exorbitant demands
誅流	to kill and banish
誅滅	to wipe out; to exterminate
誅盡殺絕	to wipe out; to exterminate
誅鋤	to uproot; to eradicate (traitors)
誅鋤異己	to wipe out dissenters; to exterminate those who disagree
誅除	to wipe out; to exterminate
誆	to mislead; to swindle
誆騙	to defraud; to swindle
誇	to boast; to exaggerate; to praise
誇休可爾症	kwashiorkor (medicine)
誇口	to boast
誇多鬥靡	(idiom) to use literary phrases in one's writing to show off one's erudition
誇大	to exaggerate
誇大之詞	hyperbole; exaggeration
誇大其詞	to exaggerate
誇張	to exaggerate; overstated; exaggerated; hyperbole
誇海口	to boast; to talk big
誇獎	to praise; to applaud; to compliment
誇稱	to praise; to acclaim; to commend
誇耀	to brag about; to flaunt
誇誇其談	(idiom) to talk big; to sound off; to be full of hot air
誇贊	to praise; to speak highly of; to commend
誌	sign; mark; to record
誌哀	to pay respects to the dead; to mark sb's passing
認	to recognize; to know; to admit
認人	to recognize people (of babies); to be able to tell people apart
認作	to regard as; to view; to consider sth as
認出	recognition; to recognize
認可	to approve; approval; acknowledgment
認同	to approve of; to endorse; to acknowledge
認命	to accept misfortunes as decreed by fate; to be resigned to sth
認字	to learn to read; able to read; literate
認定	to maintain (that sth is true); to determine (a fact)
認床	to have difficulties sleeping in a bed other than one's own
認得	to recognize; to remember sth (or sb) on seeing it; to know
認慫	(coll.) to back down; to concede defeat; to lose one's nerve
認明	to identify; to authenticate
認栽	to admit defeat
認死扣兒	stubborn
認死理	obstinate; opinionated
認清	to see clearly; to recognize; to realize
認準	to identify clearly; to make sure of; to believe firmly
認為	to believe; to think; to consider; to feel
認生	shy with strangers
認真	conscientious; earnest; serious
認知	cognition; cognitive; understanding
認知失調	cognitive dissonance
認知心理學	cognitive psychology
認知戰	cognitive warfare
認知神經心理學	cognitive neuropsychology
認繳資本	subscribed capital (finance)
認罪	to admit guilt; to plead guilty
認罪協商	plea bargain
認罰	to accept punishment
認腳	(of a shoe) designed to be worn on a specific foot – either the left or the right
認腳鞋	a left-and-right pair of shoes (distinguished from 直腳鞋|直脚鞋[zhi2 jiao3 xie2], shoes that can be worn on either foot)
認親	to acknowledge sb as one's relative; to acknowledge kinship
認證	to authenticate; to approve
認識	to know; to recognize; to be familiar with
認識不能	agnosia
認識論	epistemology (in philosophy, the theory of how we know things)
認負	to admit defeat
認賊作父	lit. to acknowledge the bandit as one's father (idiom); fig. a complete betrayal
認賠	to agree to pay compensation; to accept liability
認賬	to own up to a fault; to admit the truth; to acknowledge a debt
認購	to undertake to purchase sth; to subscribe (to share issue)
認輸	to concede; to admit defeat
認錯	to admit an error; to acknowledge one's mistake
認雞作鳳	(lit.) to mistake a chicken for a phoenix (idiom)
認領	to claim (as one's property); to adopt (a child)
認頭	to admit defeat; to accept having lost
認養	to sponsor
誑	to deceive; to dupe; falsehood; lie; (dialect) to amuse
誑語	a lie; a falsehood
誒	sigh (to express regret)
誓	oath; vow; to swear
誓不兩立	the two cannot exist together (idiom); irreconcilable differences
誓不反悔	to vow not to break one's promise
誓師	to vow before one's troops
誓死	to pledge one's life
誓死不從	to vow to die rather than obey (idiom)
誓死不降	to vow to fight to the death
誓約	oath; vow; pledge
誓絕	to abjure; to swear to quit
誓言	to pledge; to promise; oath
誓詞	oath; pledge
誕	birth; birthday; brag
誕生	to be born
誕育	to give birth to; to give rise to
誕辰	birthday
誘	(literary) to induce; to entice
誘人	attractive; alluring; captivating
誘使	to lure into; to entrap; to trick into
誘因	cause; triggering factor; incentive
誘姦	to seduce (into sex)
誘導	to induce; to encourage; to provide guidance
誘惑	to entice; to lure; to induce
誘拐	to abduct; to kidnap
誘捕	to trap (an animal); to lure (a suspect) into a trap
誘掖	to help and encourage
誘發	to induce; to cause; to elicit
誘變劑	mutagen
誘陷	to lure into a trap
誘食劑	feeding attractant; phagostimulant
誘餌	bait
誘騙	to entice; to lure; to scam
誙	(arch.) definitely; sure!
誚	ridicule; to blame
語	(literary) to tell; to let (sb) know
語云	as the saying goes...
語助詞	auxiliary word
語句	sentence
語域	(linguistics) linguistic field; register
語塞	to be at a loss for words; speechless
語境	context
語失	indiscreet remark; indiscretion; slip of the tongue
語尾	(grammar) suffix
語序	word order
語彙	vocabulary
語意	meaning; content of speech or writing; semantic
語意性	semantic
語感	instinctive feel for the language
語態	voice (grammar)
語支	language branch
語數外	Chinese, math & English (school subjects)
語文	literature and language; (PRC) Chinese (as a school subject)
語料	(linguistics) language material; language data
語料庫	corpus
語族	language branch
語氣	tone; manner of speaking; mood
語氣助詞	modal particle
語氣詞	modal particle
語法	grammar; (computing) syntax
語法糖	(computing) syntactic sugar
語流	(linguistics) flow of speech
語源	etymology
語焉不詳	to mention sth without elaborating (idiom); not giving details
語無倫次	incoherent speech; to talk without rhyme or reason (idiom)
語用學	pragmatics
語畫	picture in words
語病	faulty wording; mispronunciation due to a speech defect
語種	language type (in a classification)
語篇	discourse; text
語系	language family
語素	morpheme
語義	meaning of words; semantic
語義分析	semantic analysis
語義分類	semantic categorization
語義學	semantics
語義空間	semantic space
語者	(linguistics) speaker
語聲	spoken language; sound of speaking
語言	language
語言匱乏	language deficit (linguistics)
語言學	linguistics
語言學家	linguist
語言實驗室	language laboratory
語言能力	verbal ability
語言訓練	language training
語言障礙	language barrier; speech impediment
語詞	word; phrase; (old) (grammar) function word
語調	intonation; tone of voice
語速	speaking speed
語重心長	meaningful and heartfelt words (idiom); sincere and earnest wishes
語鋒	thread of discussion; topic
語錄	quotation (from a book or existing source)
語音	speech sounds; pronunciation
語音信箱	voice mailbox; voicemail
語音信號	voice signal
語音助手	voice assistant
語音合成	speech synthesis
語音學	phonetics
語音意識	phonetic awareness
語音指令	speech command (for computer speech recognition)
語音識別	speech recognition
語驚四座	to make a remark that startles everyone present (idiom)
誠	(bound form) sincere; authentic; (literary) really; truly
誠信	honesty; trustworthiness; good faith
誠如	it is exactly as
誠實	honest
誠心	sincerity
誠心實意	earnestly and sincerely (idiom); with all sincerity
誠心所願	so be it; amen
誠心誠意	earnestly and sincerely (idiom); with all sincerity
誠惶誠恐	in fear and trepidation (idiom); in reverence before your majesty (court formula of humility)
誠意	sincerity; good faith
誠懇	sincere; honest; cordial
誠摯	sincere; cordial
誠服	to be completely convinced; to fully accept another person's views
誠樸	simple and sincere
誠然	indeed; true! (I agree with you)
誠篤	honest; sincere and serious
誠聘	to seek to recruit; to invite job applications from
誠邀	we warmly invite (you to participate, attend, collaborate etc)
誡	commandment; to prohibit
誡命	commandment
誣	to accuse falsely
誣告	to frame sb; to accuse falsely
誣害	to damage by calumny
誣衊	to slander; to smear; to vilify
誣賴	to accuse falsely
誣陷	to entrap; to frame; to plant false evidence against sb
誤	mistake; error; to miss
誤上賊船	lit. to mistakenly board a pirate ship
誤事	to hold things up; to make a botch of things
誤人子弟	(of a lazy or incompetent teacher) to hamper students' progress
誤作	to consider erroneously; incorrectly attributed to sb
誤信	to falsely believe; to be mislead; to fall for (a trick etc)
誤傷	to injure accidentally; accidental injury
誤入歧途	to take a wrong step in life (idiom); to go astray
誤判	to misjudge; error of judgment; incorrect ruling
誤判案	miscarriage of justice
誤區	mistaken ideas; misconceptions; the error of one's ways
誤寫	to unwittingly write the wrong thing
誤導	to mislead; to misguide; misleading
誤工	to be late for or absent from work
誤差	difference; error; inaccuracy
誤打誤撞	accidentally; to act before thinking
誤會	to misunderstand; to mistake; misunderstanding
誤植	to write a word incorrectly; typo
誤機	to miss a plane
誤殺	to mistakenly kill; manslaughter
誤用	to misuse
誤繕	to miswrite (while copying written material); to transcribe incorrectly; to make a clerical error
誤置	to put sth in the wrong place
誤解	to misunderstand; misunderstanding
誤觸	to touch by mistake; to accidentally activate or trigger; (fig.) to unwittingly run afoul of
誤診	to misdiagnose; to be late in giving medical treatment
誤讀	to misread; (fig.) to misunderstand; to misinterpret
誤車	to miss (bus, train etc)
誤食	to accidentally eat; to inadvertently ingest
誤點	not on time; late (public transport, airlines); overdue
誥	to enjoin; to grant (a title)
誦	to read aloud; to recite
誦經	to chant the sutras
誦讀	to read aloud
誦讀困難症	dyslexia
誧	huge; to admonish
誨	to teach; to instruct; to induce
誨人不倦	instructing with tireless zeal (idiom, from Analects)
誨淫	to stir up lust; to promote sex; to encourage licentiousness
誨淫性	licentious
誨淫誨盜	to promote sex and violence; to stir up lust and covetousness
說	to speak; to talk; to say; to explain; to comment
說一不二	to say one and mean just that (idiom); to keep one's word
說一千，道一萬	when all is said and done; at the end of the day
說七說八	after all
說三道四	to make thoughtless remarks (idiom); to criticize; gossip
說上	to say; to speak; to talk
說不上	to be unable to say or tell; to not be worth mentioning
說不出	unable to say
說不出話來	speechless
說不定	can't say for sure; maybe
說不得	to be unmentionable; be unspeakable; must
說不準	unable to say; can't say precisely
說不通	it does not make sense
說不過去	cannot be justified; inexcusable
說中	to hit the nail on the head; to predict correctly
說也奇怪	strangely enough; oddly enough; strange to say
說了算	to have the final say; to be the one in charge
說你胖你就喘	lit. when someone tells you you're fat, you pant (as if you were actually fat) (idiom)
說來話長	start explaining and it's a long story (idiom); complicated and not easy to express succinctly
說來說去	(idiom) when all is said and done
說出	to speak out; to declare (one's view)
說到	to talk about; to mention; (preposition) as for
說到做到	to be as good as one's word (idiom); to keep one's promise
說到底	in the final analysis; in the end
說動	to persuade
說合	to bring together; to mediate; to arrange a deal
說哭	to make (sb) cry (with one's harsh words)
說唱	speaking and singing, as in various forms of storytelling such as 彈詞|弹词[tan2 ci2] and 相聲|相声[xiang4 sheng5]
說嘴	to boast
說好	to come to an agreement; to complete negotiations
說媒	to act as a matchmaker
說定	to agree on; to settle on
說客	(old) itinerant political adviser; (fig.) lobbyist; go-between
說實話	to speak the truth; truth to tell; frankly
說岳全傳	"The Story of Yue Fei", biography of Song dynasty patriot and general Yue Fei 岳飛|岳飞[Yue4 Fei1]
說帖	memorandum; note (i.e. written statement)
說幹就幹	to do what needs to be done, without delay
說廢話	to talk nonsense; to bullshit
說得上	can be counted or regarded as; to be able to tell or answer
說得過去	acceptable; passable; justifiable
說情	to intercede; to plead for sb else
說教	to preach
說文解字	Shuowen Jiezi, the earliest systematic Chinese character dictionary, compiled by Xu Shen 許慎|许慎[Xu3 Shen4] in the Eastern Han dynasty (2nd century), containing 10,516 entries
說文解字註	Commentary on Shuowen Jiezi (1815) by Duan Yucai 段玉裁[Duan4 Yu4 cai2]
說明	to explain; to illustrate; to indicate
說明書	(technical) manual; (book of) directions; synopsis (of a play or film)
說明會	information meeting
說時遲，那時快	(idiom) no sooner said than done; before you know it
說書	folk art consisting of storytelling to music
說曹操曹操就到	lit. speak of Cao Cao and Cao Cao arrives
說服	to persuade; to convince; to talk sb over
說服力	persuasiveness
說東道西	to chat about this and that; to talk about anything and everything
說死	to say definitely; to commit (to a proposition)
說法	way of speaking; wording; formulation
說溜嘴	to make a slip of the tongue
說漏嘴	to blurt out; to let slip
說理	to reason; to argue logically
說白了	to speak frankly
說真的	to tell the truth; honestly; in fact
說破	to lay bare (actual facts, secrets etc); to reveal
說笑	to chat and laugh; to crack jokes; to banter
說老實話	to be honest; to tell the truth; to be frank
說著玩	to say sth for fun; to be kidding; to joke around
說葡萄酸	sour grapes (set expr. based on Aesop)
說親	to act as a matchmaker
說話	to speak; to say; to talk
說話不當話	to fail to keep to one's word; to break a promise
說話算數	to keep one's promise; to mean what one says
說話算話	to do as promised; to be as good as one's word; to honor one's word
說話要算數	promises must be kept
說說	to say sth
說說而已	nothing serious; just hot air
說謊	to lie; to tell an untruth
說謊者	liar
說起	to mention; to bring up (a subject); with regard to
說辭	excuse; pretext; entreaties
說通	to get sb to understand; to persuade
說道	to state; to say (the quoted words)
說部	(old) works of literature, including novels, plays etc
說長道短	lit. to discuss sb's merits and demerits (idiom); to gossip
說閒話	to chat; to gossip
說風涼話	to sneer; to make cynical remarks; sarcastic talk
誰	who; also pr. [shui2]
誰人樂隊	The Who (1960s UK rock band)
誰怕誰	bring it on!; who's afraid?
誰料	who would have thought that; who would have expected that
誰知	who would have thought; unexpectedly
誰知道	God knows...; Who would have imagined...?
誰笑到最後，誰笑得最好	He laughs best who laughs last.
誰笑在最後，誰笑得最好	He laughs best who laughs last.
課	subject; course; class
課件	courseware (abbr. for 課程軟件|课程软件[ke4 cheng2 ruan3 jian4])
課堂	classroom (CL:間|间[jian1]); class session
課外	extracurricular
課外讀物	extracurricular reading material
課室	classroom
課徵	to levy (a tax)
課文	text
課時	class; period
課本	textbook
課桌	school desk
課業	lesson; schoolwork
課程	course; academic program
課程表	class timetable
課表	school timetable
課金	tax levied on a conquered people by an army
課長	section chief (of an administrative unit); head (of a department)
課間	interval between lessons
課間操	setting-up exercises during the break (between classes)
課題	task; problem; issue
課餘	after school; extracurricular
誶	abuse
誹	slander
誹聞	scandal; gossip
誹謗	to slander; to libel
誼	friendship; also pr. [yi2]
誾	respectful; to speak gently
調	to transfer; to move (troops or cadres); to investigate
調三窩四	to sow the seeds of discord everywhere (idiom)
調任	to transfer; to move to another post
調休	to compensate for working on a holiday by resting on a workday
調侃	to ridicule; to tease; to mock
調值	pitch of tones
調停	to reconcile; to mediate; to bring warring parties to agreement
調停者	mediator; intermediary; go-between
調價	to raise or lower the price; price adjustment
調光器	dimmer
調入	to bring in; to call in; to transfer (a person, data)
調兵山市	Diaobingshan, a county-level city in Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
調兵遣將	to move an army and send a general (idiom); to deploy an army
調制	to modulate; modulation
調制波	modulated wave (elec.)
調制解調器	modem
調劑	to adjust; to redistribute (resources etc)
調動	to transfer; to maneuver (troops etc); movement of personnel
調勻	to blend (cooking); to mix evenly
調包	to steal sb's valuable item and substitute a similar-looking but worthless item; to sell a fake for the genuine article; to palm off
調升	to adjust upward; to upgrade; (price) hike
調協	to harmonize; to match
調卷	to consult the archives; to check the records (usually of legal proceedings)
調取	to obtain (information from an archive etc)
調味	seasoning; condiment; flavoring
調味劑	flavoring agent
調味品	seasoning; flavoring
調味料	seasoning; condiment; flavoring
調味汁	dressing; sauce
調味肉汁	gravy
調和	harmonious; to mediate; to reconcile; mediation
調和分析	harmonic analysis (math.)
調和平均數	harmonic mean
調和振動	harmonic oscillation
調唆	to provoke; to stir up (trouble); to instigate
調嘴	to hold forth; to quibble
調嘴學舌	to incite trouble between people (idiom)
調子	tune; melody; tuning
調崗	to transfer an employee to another post; reassignment
調幅	amplitude modulation (AM); size of an adjustment
調幹	to reassign a cadre; to choose a worker to be promoted to cadre
調幹生	worker chosen to become a cadre and sent to complete his schooling
調度	to dispatch (vehicles, staff etc); to schedule; to manage
調弄	to tease; to make fun of; to provoke
調式	(musical) mode
調律	to tune (e.g. piano)
調性	(music) tonality
調情	to flirt
調戲	to take liberties with a woman; to dally
調控	to regulate; to control
調換	to exchange; to change places; to swap
調撥	to send (products); to allocate; to commit (funds)
調擋	gear shift
調攝	(literary) to nurse to health; to recuperate
調教	to instruct; to teach; to train
調整	to adjust; to revise; to reorganize
調料	condiment; seasoning; flavoring
調查	investigation; inquiry; to investigate
調查人員	investigator
調查員	investigator
調查團	investigating team
調查核實	to investigate; investigation
調查結果	results (of an investigation, poll)
調查者	investigator
調查表	questionnaire; inventory list
調查記者	investigative reporter
調檔	to transfer a dossier; to consult a dossier
調派	to send on assignment; to deploy (troops)
調準	to adjust to the right value; to tune; to focus (a camera etc)
調焦	to focus
調理	to nurse one's health; to recuperate; to take care of
調理食品	precooked food
調用	to transfer (for a specific purpose); to allocate
調發	to requisition; to dispatch
調皮	naughty; mischievous; unruly
調皮搗蛋	naughty; mischievous; to act up
調相	phase modulation
調研	to investigate and research; research; investigation
調研人員	research workers; survey and research workers
調笑	to tease; to poke fun at
調節	to adjust; to regulate; to harmonize
調節器	regulator
調羹	spoon; (esp.) Chinese soup spoon (often ceramic)
調職	to be transferred to another post; to post away
調色	to blend colors; to mix colors
調色板	palette
調色盤	palette
調藥刀	spatula
調虎離山	to lure the tiger from its domain in the mountains (idiom)
調號	tone mark on a Chinese syllable (i.e. accents on ā á ǎ à)
調製	to concoct by mixing ingredients; to prepare according to a recipe; to make (a salad, a cocktail, cosmetics etc)
調解	to mediate; to bring parties to an agreement
調訓	to train; to care for and educate
調試	to debug; to adjust components during testing; debugging
調諧	harmonious; to adjust; to tune (e.g. wireless receiver)
調謔	to make fun of; to mock
調變	modulation; to modulate (electronics)
調資	wage adjustment; to raise or lower wages
調赴	to dispatch (troops to the front)
調車場	(railroad) classification yard; marshalling yard; shunting yard
調轉	to reassign sb to a different job; to turn around; to change direction
調速	to adjust the speed
調遣	to dispatch; to assign; a dispatch
調適	to adapt (to an environment etc); to make sth suitable; adaptation
調遷	to transfer; to move; to shift
調配	to blend (colors, herbs); to mix
調酒	to mix drinks; cocktail
調酒器	(cocktail) shaker
調酒師	bartender
調門	melody; pitch or key (music); tone
調閱	to access (a document); to consult
調防	to relieve a garrison
調降	to lower; to reduce; to cut (prices, interest rates etc)
調集	to summon; to muster; to assemble
調音	to tune (a musical instrument)
調頭	tone (of voice); tune
調頻	frequency modulation; FM
調養	to take care of (sb's health); to nurse
調馴	to look after and train (animals)
諂	to flatter; to cajole
諂媚	to flatter
諂媚者	flatterer
諄	repeatedly (in giving advice); sincere; earnest
諄諄	earnest; devoted; tireless
諄諄告誡	to repeatedly advise sb earnestly (idiom); to admonish
諆	to deceive; to cheat
談	to speak; to talk; to converse
談不上	to be out of the question
談不攏	can't come to an agreement
談何容易	easier said than done (idiom)
談價	to negotiate (prices); to haggle
談判	to negotiate; negotiation; talks
談判地	place for negotiations
談判地位	bargaining position
談判桌	conference table
談到	to refer to; to speak about; to talk about
談及	to talk about; to mention
談古論今	to talk of the past and discuss the present (idiom); to chat freely
談吐	style of conversation
談天	to chat
談天說地	to talk endlessly; to talk about everything under the sun
談妥	to come to terms; to reach an agreement
談婚論嫁	(idiom) (of a couple) to discuss getting married
談崩	(of negotiations) to break down
談得來	to be able to talk to; to get along with; to be congenial
談心	to have a heart-to-heart chat
談性色變	to turn pale at the mention of sex; prudish
談情說愛	to murmur endearments (idiom); to get into a romantic relationship
談戀愛	to be in a romantic relationship; to go steady; to be dating
談攏	to reach an agreement
談星	astrology; fortune-telling
談朋友	to be dating sb
談笑自若	to talk and laugh as though nothing had happened
談笑風生	to talk cheerfully and wittily; to joke together
談經	to explain a sutra; to expound the classics
談虎色變	(lit.) to turn pale at the mention of a tiger (idiom)
談話	to talk (with sb); to have a conversation; talk
談談	to discuss; to have a chat
談論	to discuss; to talk about
談資	sth that people like to chat about; topic of idle conversation
談起	to mention; to speak of; to talk about
諉	to shirk; to give excuses
諉過	to put the blame on sb else
請	to ask; to invite; please (do sth)
請便	Please do as you wish!; You are welcome to do whatever you like!
請假	to request leave of absence
請假條	leave of absence request (from work or school)
請別見怪	please don't be upset; no hard feelings; absit iniuria verbis
請功	to request recognition for sb's merits
請勿	please don't
請勿吸煙	No smoking; Please do not smoke
請勿打擾	please do not disturb
請君入甕	lit. please Sir, get into the boiling pot (idiom)
請問	Excuse me, may I ask...?
請坐	please, have a seat
請多關照	please treat me kindly (conventional greeting on first meeting)
請安	to pay respects; to wish good health
請客	to give a dinner party; to entertain guests; to invite to dinner
請將不如激將	lit. to dispatch a general is not as effective as to excite a general
請帖	invitation card; written invitation
請戰	to request to be sent into battle; (by extension) to volunteer for a dangerous or arduous task
請援	to request help; to appeal (for assistance)
請教	to ask for guidance; to consult
請柬	invitation card; written invitation
請款	to request payment (or reimbursement); to invoice
請求	to request; to ask; request (CL:個|个[ge4])
請求寬恕	to sue for mercy; to ask for forgiveness; begging for magnanimity
請看	please see ...; vide
請示	to ask for instructions
請神容易送神難	it's easier to invite the devil in than to send him away
請纓	to volunteer for military service; to offer oneself for an assignment
請罪	to apologize humbly; to beg forgiveness
請調	to request a transfer
請辭	to tender one's resignation
請進	"please come in"
請領	to apply for (a subsidy, unemployment benefit etc)
請願	to petition
請願書	petition
諍	to admonish; to warn sb of their errors; to criticize frankly
諍人	dwarf in legends
諍友	a friend capable of direct admonition
諍臣	official who dares speak frankly before the emperor
諍言	to reprove; forthright admonition
諍訟	to contest a lawsuit
諍諫	to criticize frankly; to admonish
諏	to choose; to consult
諑	to complain
諒	to show understanding; to excuse; to presume
諒解	to understand; to make allowances for; understanding
諒解備忘錄	memorandum of understanding
諕	to intimidate
論	abbr. for 論語|论语[Lun2 yu3], The Analects (of Confucius)
論功	to evaluate the merit of sth
論功行賞	(idiom) to assess merit and confer rewards
論及	to make reference to; to mention
論壇	forum (for discussion)
論壇報	Tribune (in newspaper names)
論定	to make a definitive judgment; to come to a firm conclusion
論戰	to debate; to contend; polemics
論據	grounds (for an argument); contention; thesis
論文	paper; treatise; thesis
論斷	to infer; to judge; inference
論法	argumentation
論爭	argument; debate; controversy
論理	normally; as things should be; by rights
論理學	logic
論著	treatise; study
論語	The Analects of Confucius 孔子[Kong3 zi3]
論調	argument; view (sometimes derogatory)
論證	to prove a point; to expound on
論述	treatise; discourse; exposition
論長道短	lit. to discuss sb's merits and demerits (idiom); to gossip
論題	topic
論點	argument; line of reasoning; thesis
諗	to know; to reprimand; to urge
諛	to flatter
諛辭	flattering words
諜	to spy
諜報	spy report; intelligence
諜戰	(movie genre) espionage thriller (typically involving Chinese agents opposing the Japanese in the 1930s and 40s)
諜照	spy shot; leaked photo of a yet-to-be-released product
諝	(literary) ability and wisdom; scheme; stratagem
諞	to brag; Taiwan pr. [pian2]
諟	to examine; to judge
諠呼	to shout loudly; to bawl; to vociferate
諡	(bound form) posthumous name or title
諡號	honorary posthumous name; posthumous title
諢	jest; nickname
諢名	humorous or mocking nickname
諢號	humorous or mocking nickname
諤	honest speech
諦	to examine; truth (Buddhism)
諦聽	to listen carefully
諦視	to look carefully
諧	(bound form) harmonious; (bound form) humorous
諧劇	Xieju opera (ballad and dancing monologue, popular in Sichuan)
諧和	concordant; harmonious
諧婉	mild and harmonious
諧戲	to joke
諧振	resonance; sympathetic vibration
諧振動	harmonic oscillation (e.g. sound wave)
諧振子	harmonic oscillator (physics)
諧星	popular comedian; comic star
諧波	harmonic (wave with frequency an integer multiple of the fundamental)
諧稱	humorous nickname
諧美	harmonious and graceful
諧聲	combination of a signific component and a phonetic element to form a phono-semantic character, as in 功[gong1], which has signific 力[li4] and phonetic 工[gong1] (also referred to as 形聲|形声[xing2 sheng1])
諧談	joking; humorous talk
諧謔	banter; humorous repartee
諧趣	humor; amusing
諧音	homonym; homophone; harmonic (component of sound)
諧音列	harmonic series
諧音梗	homophonic pun
諫	to remonstrate; to admonish
諫征	to send or go on a punitive expedition
諫書	written admonition from an official to his sovereign (old)
諫言	advice; to advise
諭	order (from above)
諭旨	imperial edict
諭示	to issue a directive; to instruct (that sth be done)
諮	(bound form) to consult; to seek advice; to take counsel
諮商	(Tw) consultation (on policy, trade etc); (psychological) counseling
諮客	(service industry) reception staff
諮詢	to inquire; to consult; to seek advice from
諮詢員	advisor; consultant
諱	to avoid mentioning; taboo word; name of deceased emperor or superior
諱名	taboo name; name of deceased
諱疾忌醫	hiding a sickness for fear of treatment (idiom); fig. concealing a fault to avoid criticism
諱稱	euphemism; word used to avoid a taboo reference
諱莫如深	(idiom) to steadfastly refuse to discuss the matter; to treat it as an untouchable subject
諱言	to avoid stating openly (esp. sensitive or unpleasant matters, usu. in the negative, as in 不諱言|不讳言[bu4 hui4 yan2] "to state frankly")
諳	to be versed in; to know well
諳事	(often used in the negative in describing a young person) to have an understanding of things
諳熟	to be proficient in
諳練	conversant; skilled; proficient
諴	to bring into accord; sincerity
諵	mumble in repetition
諶	faithful; sincere
諷	to satirize; to mock; to recite
諷刺	to satirize; to mock; irony
諷喻	parable; allegory; satire
諷諫	(literary) to remonstrate with one's superior tactfully
諸	all; various
諸事	everything; every matter
諸位	(pron) everyone; Ladies and Gentlemen; Sirs
諸侯	dukes or princes who rule a part of the country under the emperor; local rulers
諸侯國	vassal state
諸公	gentlemen (form of address)
諸凡百事	everything
諸君	Gentlemen! (start of a speech); Ladies and Gentlemen!
諸城市	Zhucheng, a county-level city in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
諸多	(used for abstract things) a good deal, a lot of
諸如	(various things) such as; such as (the following)
諸如此類	things like this (idiom); and so on; and the rest; etc
諸子	various sages
諸子十家	various sages and ten schools of thought
諸子百家	the Hundred Schools of Thought, the various schools of thought and their exponents during the Spring and Autumn and Warring States Periods (770-220 BC)
諸廣山	Mt Zhuguang between Jiangxi and Hunan
諸暨市	Zhuji, a county-level city in Shaoxing City 紹興市|绍兴市[Shao4 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
諸柘	sugarcane
諸生	Imperial scholar from the Ming Dynasty onwards
諸相	the appearance of all things (Buddhism)
諸般	various; many different kinds of
諸色	various; all kinds
諸葛	two-character surname Zhuge; Taiwan pr. [Zhu1ge2]
諸葛亮	Zhuge Liang (181–234), military leader and prime minister of Shu Han 蜀漢|蜀汉[Shu3 Han4] during the Three Kingdoms period
諺	proverb
諺文	hangul, Korean phonetic alphabet
諺語	proverb
諼	to deceive; to forget
諾	to consent; to promise; (literary) yes!
諾丁漢	Nottingham (city in England)
諾丁漢郡	Nottinghamshire (English county)
諾亞	Noah
諾亞方舟	Noah's ark
諾伊曼	John von Neumann (1903–1957), Hungarian-born American mathematician and polymath
諾克少	Nouakchott, capital of Mauritania (Tw)
諾基亞	Nokia (company name)
諾夫哥羅德	Novgorod, city in Russia
諾如病毒	norovirus (loanword)
諾姆·喬姆斯基	Noam Chomsky (American linguist and political activist)
諾曼人	Normans (people)
諾曼底	Normandy, France
諾曼底人	Norman (people)
諾曼底半島	Normandy Peninsula (i.e. Cotentin Peninsula)
諾曼征服	the Norman conquest of England (1066)
諾曼第	Normandy, France
諾格	Northrop Grumman (aerospace arm of Boeing)
諾特	Noether (name); Emmy Noether (1882-1935), German mathematician
諾獎	Nobel Prize; abbr. for 諾貝爾獎|诺贝尔奖[Nuo4 bei4 er3 Jiang3]
諾矩羅	Nuojuluo, monk at start of Tang dynasty, possibly originally immigrant, lived in Qingshen county 青神[Qing1 shen2], Sichuan
諾福克島	Norfolk Island
諾維喬克	Novichok (nerve agent)
諾羅病毒	norovirus (Tw) (loanword)
諾美克斯	Nomex (brand)
諾言	promise
諾貝爾	Nobel (Prize)
諾貝爾和平獎	Nobel Peace Prize
諾貝爾文學獎	Nobel Prize in Literature
諾貝爾物理學獎	Nobel Prize in Physics
諾貝爾獎	Nobel Prize
諾魯	Nauru, island country in the southwestern Pacific (Tw)
謀	to plan; to seek; scheme
謀事	to plan matters; to look for a job
謀事在人，成事在天	planning is with man, accomplishing with heaven (idiom); Man proposes but God disposes.
謀利	to make a profit; to gain; to get an advantage
謀刺	to plot to assassinate
謀劃	to scheme; to plot; conspiracy
謀反	to plot a rebellion; to conspire against the state
謀取	to seek; to strive for; to obtain
謀士	skilled manipulator; tactician; strategist
謀害	to conspire to murder; to plot against sb's life
謀得	to get; to obtain
謀慮	to plan and consider; to reflect on one's best strategy
謀智	Mozilla China, software company founded in 2005, headquartered in Beijing
謀殺	to murder; to assassinate; intentional homicide
謀殺案	murder case
謀殺罪	murder
謀求	to seek; to strive for
謀生	to seek one's livelihood; to work to support oneself; to earn a living
謀略	stratagem; strategy; resourcefulness
謀職	to look for a job; to seek employment
謀臣	imperial strategic adviser; expert on strategy
謀臣如雨	strategic experts as thick as rain (idiom); no shortage of advisers on strategy
謀臣武將	strategic experts and powerful generals (idiom)
謀臣猛將	strategic experts and powerful generals (idiom)
謀計	stratagem; scheme
謀財害命	to plot and kill sb for his property (idiom); to murder for money
謀面	to meet
謀食	to make a living; to strive to earn a living
謁	to visit (a superior)
謁訪	to pay one's respects; to visit (ancestral grave)
謁陵	to pay homage at a mausoleum
謂	to speak; to say; to name
謂詞	predicate (in logic and grammar)
謂語	(grammatical) predicate
謄	to transcribe; to copy out
謄寫	to transcribe; to make a fair copy
謄錄	to copy out
謅	to make up (a story); Taiwan pr. [zou1]
謆	to beguile; to cajole
謇	to speak out boldly
謊	lies; to lie
謊價	inflated price; exorbitant price
謊報	to lie
謊稱	to claim; to pretend
謊言	lie
謊話	lie
謊騙	to deceive; to cheat
謋	sound of flesh being separated from the bone
謍	humming sound
謎	riddle
謎之	(neologism) (slang) (attributive) mysterious; enigmatic (calque from Japanese 謎の "nazo no")
謎兒	riddle
謎團	riddle; enigma; unpredictable situation
謎底	answer to a riddle
謎樣	enigmatic
謎語	riddle; conundrum
謎面	riddle
謎題	puzzle; riddle
謏	to induce
謐	(literary) quiet; peaceful; tranquil
謑	shame; disgrace
謔	joy; to joke; to banter
謔劇	fun and mockery
謔戲	fun and mockery
謔稱	playful appellation
謔而不虐	to tease; to mock sb without offending; to banter
謔語	words to tease sb
謖	composed; rise; to begin
謗	to slander; to defame; to speak ill of
謙	modest
謙卑	humble
謙和	meek; modest; amiable
謙恭	polite and modest
謙稱	modest appellation
謙虛	modest; self-effacing; to make modest remarks
謙詞	modest word (grammar)
謙語	humble expression
謙誠	modest and sincere; humble
謙讓	to modestly decline
謙辭	humble words; self-deprecatory expression; to modestly decline
謙遜	humble; modest; unpretentious
講	to speak; to explain; to negotiate
講不通	it does not make sense
講價	to bargain (over price); to haggle
講到	to talk about sth
講史	historical tales
講和	to make peace; to reconcile
講堂	lecture hall
講壇	a platform (to speak)
講學	to lecture (on branch of learning)
講師	instructor; lecturer
講座	course of lectures; lecture series; chair (academic position)
講授	to lecture; to teach
講明	to explain
講桌	lectern; podium
講求	to stress; to emphasize; particular about sth
講演	to lecture; to speak publicly
講理	to argue; to reason with sb; to talk sense
講究	to pay particular attention to; carefully selected for quality
講筵	the teacher's seat
講義	teaching materials
講義氣	to be loyal (to one's friends); to value loyalty
講習	to lecture; to instruct
講習會	discussion forum; seminar; assembly
講習班	instructional workshop
講臺	platform; podium; rostrum; lectern; (teacher's) desk
講解	to explain
講解員	guide
講評	to criticize; to evaluate
講話	a speech; to speak; to talk
講課	to give a lecture; to teach a class
講論	to discuss
講辭	lectures
講述	to talk about; to narrate; to give an account
講道	to preach; a sermon
講閒話	to gossip; to make unfavorable comments
講題	topic of a lecture
謝	to thank; (bound form) to apologize
謝世	(literary) to pass away; to die; to depart from this world
謝候	to thank sb for favor or hospitality
謝儀	honorarium; gift as thanks
謝卻	to decline; to refuse politely
謝天謝地	(idiom) thank goodness
謝媒	to thank the matchmaker
謝孝	to visit friends to thank them after a funeral
謝客	to decline to meet a visitor
謝家集區	Xiejiaji, a district of Huainan City 淮南市[Huai2 nan2 Shi4], Anhui
謝帖	letter of thanks
謝師宴	banquet hosted by students in honor of their teachers
謝幕	to take a curtain call; (fig.) to come to an end
謝忱	gratitude
謝恩	to thank sb for favor (esp. emperor or superior official)
謝意	gratitude; thanks
謝拉	Zerah (son of Judah in the Old Testament)
謝爾巴人	Sherpa
謝爾蓋	Sergei (name)
謝特	shit! (loanword)
謝病	to excuse oneself because of illness
謝禮	honorarium; gift as thanks
謝絕	to refuse politely
謝絕參觀	closed to visitors; no admittance
謝罪	to apologize for an offense; to offer one's apology for a fault
謝肉節	carnival (esp. Christian)
謝詞	speech of thanks
謝謝	to thank; thanks; thank you
謝赫	Xie He (479-502), portrait painter from Qi of Southern dynasties 南齊|南齐[Nan2 Qi2]
謝辛	Chea Sim, president of Cambodian National Assembly
謝通門縣	Xaitongmoin, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
謝里夫	Sharif (name); Nawaz Sharif (1949-), Pakistani politician
謝長廷	Frank Chang-ting Hsieh (1946-), Taiwanese DPP politician, mayor of Kaohsiung 1998-2005
謝霆鋒	Tse Ting-Fung or Nicholas Tse (1980-), Cantopop star
謝靈運	Xie Lingyun (385-433) poet during Song of the Southern Dynasties 南朝宋
謝頂	to go bald
謠	popular ballad; rumor
謠傳	rumor
謠言	rumor
謠言惑衆	to mislead the public with rumors; to delude the people with lies
謦	cough slightly
謨	plan; to practice
謪	to discuss (old variant of 商[shang1])
謫	to relegate a high official to a minor post in an outlying region (punishment in imperial China)
謫仙	a genius (literally, an immortal who has been banished from heaven to live on earth), an epithet for exceptional individuals such as the Tang poet Li Bai 李白[Li3 Bai2]
謫居	(of officials in imperial China) to live in banishment
謫戍	in exile as penal servitude
謬	(bound form) false; erroneous; absurd; mu (Greek letter Μ, μ)
謬獎	to overpraise; You praise me too much!
謬種	error; fallacy; misconception
謬種流傳	to pass on errors or lies (idiom); the propagation of misconceptions
謬耄	feeble-minded and senile
謬見	erroneous views; false idea; false opinion
謬誤	error; mistaken idea; falsehood
謬論	misconception; fallacy
謭	shallow; superficial
謳	to sing; ballad; folk song
謳吟	song; chant; rhythmic declamation
謳歌	(literary) to celebrate in song; to eulogize
謷	greatness; slander; sound of weeping
謹	cautious; careful; solemnly
謹上	respectfully yours (in closing a letter)
謹啟	to respectfully inform (used at the beginning or end of letters)
謹嚴	meticulous; rigorous
謹守	to adhere strictly (to the rules)
謹慎	cautious; prudent
謹訂	would like to invite (epistolary style)
謹記	to remember with reverence; to bear in mind; to keep in mind
謹防	to guard against; to beware of
謼	to shout; to mourn; to invoke
謾	to slander; to be disrespectful; to slight
謾罵	to hurl abuse; to deride; to call sb names
譅	talkative; loquacious
譆	(interjection expressing surprise, grief etc)
譈	dislike; hate
證	certificate; proof; to prove
證交所	stock exchange
證人	witness
證人席	witness stand or box
證件	certificate; papers; credentials; document; ID
證件照	ID photo
證供	(law) testimony; evidence (given by a witness)
證偽	to disprove; to confirm (sth) to be false
證券	negotiable security (financial); certificate; stocks and bonds
證券交易所	stock exchange
證券代銷	proxy sale of securities
證券公司	securities company; share company
證券化率	securitization ratio
證券商	share dealer; broker
證券委	securities commission; abbr. for 證券委員會|证券委员会
證券委員會	securities commission (of the State Council)
證券市場	financial market
證券櫃檯買賣中心	GreTai Securities Market (GTSM)
證券經營	share dealing; brokering
證券經紀人	stockbroker
證券行	(HK, Tw) securities house; brokerage firm
證奴	"a slave to certificates", sb who does one's utmost to obtain as many certificates as possible so to be more employable
證婚	to be witness (at a wedding)
證婚人	wedding witness
證實	to confirm (sth to be true); to verify
證實禮	confirmation
證據	evidence; proof; testimony
證明	proof; certificate; identification
證明力	probative value; strength of evidence in legal proof; relevance
證明完畢	(math.) end of proof; QED (quod erat demonstrandum)
證明文件	identification document; documentary proof
證明書	certificate
證書	credentials; certificate
證照	license; permit; ID photo; passport photo
證物	exhibit (law)
證監會	China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) (abbr. for 中國證券監督管理委員會|中国证券监督管理委员会[Zhong1 guo2 Zheng4 quan4 Jian1 du1 Guan3 li3 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
證章	badge
證言	testimony
證詞	testimony
證驗	real results; to verify
譊	wrangling, contention, to dispute
譎	(literary) deceitful
譏	to ridicule
譏刺	to ridicule; to mock
譏笑	to sneer
譏誚	to deride; to mock
譏諷	to satirize; to ridicule; to mock
譒	to promulgate; to spread
譖	to slander
譖言	to slander
識	to know; knowledge; Taiwan pr. [shi4]
識別	to distinguish; to discern; to identify; to recognize
識別碼	identifier
識別號	identifier
識別證	ID badge (on a lanyard etc) (Tw)
識力	discernment; the ability to judge well
識多才廣	knowledgeable and versatile
識字	to learn to read; able to read; literate
識字率	literacy rate
識度	knowledge and experience
識得	to know
識才	to recognize talent
識才尊賢	to recognize talent and have great respect for it
識數	to know how to count and do sums; numerate; numeracy
識文斷字	(idiom) able to read; literate
識時務	to have a clear view of things; to adapt to circumstances
識時務者為俊傑	(idiom) a wise person adapts to changing circumstances
識時通變	understanding and adaptable
識時達務	understanding; to know what's up
識相	sensitive; tactful
識破	to penetrate; to see through
識破機關	to see through a trick
識羞	to know shame; to feel shame (often with a negative, shameless)
識荊	It is a great honor to meet you.
識荊恨晚	It is a great honor to meet you and I regret it is not sooner
識見	knowledge and experience
識貨	to know what's what
識趣	tactful; discreet
識途老馬	lit. an old horse knows the way home (idiom); fig. in difficulty, trust an experience colleague
譙	ridicule; to blame
譙城區	Qiaocheng, a district of Bozhou City 亳州市[Bo2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
譚	surname Tan
譚嗣同	Tan Sitong (1865-1898), Qing writer and politician, one of the Six Gentlemen Martyrs 戊戌六君子 of the unsuccessful reform movement of 1898
譚富英	Tan Fuying (1906-1977), Beijing opera star, one of the Four great beards 四大鬚生|四大须生
譚盾	Tan Dun (1957-) Chinese composer
譚詠麟	Alan Tam (1950-), Hong Kong Canto-pop singer and actor
譚鑫培	Tan Xinpei (1847-1917), noted opera actor
譚震林	Tan Zhenlin (1902-1983), PRC revolutionary and military leader, played political role after the Cultural Revolution
譜	chart; list; table
譜分析	spectral analysis (physics)
譜子	musical score
譜學	spectroscopy
譜寫	to compose (a piece of music)
譜帶	band of a spectrum
譜曲	to compose a piece of music
譜架	music stand
譜氏	family tree; ancestral records
譜牒	genealogical record; record of ancestors; family tree
譜系	pedigree
譜線	spectral line
譜表	musical stave
譞	usually used in a name; clever; intelligent
警	to alert; to warn; police
警世通言	Stories to Caution the World, vernacular short stories by Feng Menglong 馮夢龍|冯梦龙[Feng2 Meng4 long2] published in 1624
警備	guard; garrison
警備區	garrison area; command
警力	police force; police officers
警匪	police and criminals; (genre of fiction) crime
警區	policeman's round; patrol; beat
警句	aphorism
警告	to warn; to admonish
警員	police officer; policeman (general term for any police officer)
警報	(fire) alarm; alert signal; alarm
警報器	siren
警官	constable; police officer
警察	police; police officer
警察局	police station; police department; police headquarters
警察廳	National Police Agency (Japan)
警察署	police station
警局	police department; police station; abbr. of 警察局
警徽	police badge
警悟	on the alert; keenly aware
警惕	to be on the alert; vigilant; alert
警惕性	vigilance; alertness
警戒	to warn; to alert; to be on the alert
警戒線	police cordon; alert level
警探	police detective
警政署	National Police Agency (Taiwan)
警方	police
警服	police uniform
警械	police gear
警棍	police truncheon
警標	buoy; navigation marker
警民	the police and the community
警犬	police dog
警示	to warn; to alert; warning
警種	police classification
警笛	siren
警署	police station (abbr. for 警察署[jing3 cha2 shu3])
警花	attractive policewoman; young female cop
警號	alarm; alert; warning signal
警衛	to stand guard over; (security) guard
警覺	to be on guard; alert; vigilance; alertness
警訊	warning sign; police call
警車	police car
警醒	to be alert
警鈴	alarm bell
警銜	police rank
警鐘	alarm bell
警闢	profound, thorough and moving
譩	to belch
譫	(literary) to rant; to rave; to be delirious
譫妄	delirium
譬	to give an example
譬喻	analogy; metaphor; simile
譬如	for example; for instance; such as
譬如說	for example
譭	to defame; to slander
譯	to translate; to interpret
譯介	to introduce (a book etc) to people who don't read the language in which it was written by translating it
譯入語	target language (for translation)
譯出語	source language (for translation)
譯名	translated names; transliteration
譯員	interpreter; translator (esp. oral)
譯寫	to translate; to render foreign words; to transliterate
譯意風	simultaneous interpretation facilities (loanword from "earphone")
譯成	to translate into (Chinese, English etc)
譯文	translated text
譯本	translation (translated version of a text)
譯碼器	decoder
譯者	translator (of writing)
譯著	translated work
譯詞	(linguistics) an equivalent; a translation of a term into the target language
譯語	target language (linguistics)
譯音	phonetic transcription; transliteration
議	to comment on; to discuss; to suggest
議事	to discuss official business
議事日程	agenda
議付	negotiation (finance)
議價	to bargain; to negotiate a price
議和	to negotiate peace
議員	member (of a legislative body); representative
議定	to reach an agreement; to agree upon
議定書	protocol; treaty
議席	seat in a parliament or legislative assembly
議政	to discuss politics
議會	parliament; legislative assembly
議會制	parliamentary system
議案	proposal; motion
議決	to decide (in a meeting); to resolve (i.e. pass a resolution)
議程	agenda; agenda item
議論	to comment; to talk about; to discuss
議論紛紛	to discuss spiritedly (idiom); tongues are wagging
議長	chairman (of a legislative assembly); speaker
議院	parliament; congress; legislative assembly
議題	topic of discussion; topic; subject
譴	to censure; to reprimand
譴訶	to reprimand
譴責	to denounce; to condemn; to criticize
譴責小說	novel of denunciation (according to Lu Xun's 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4] classification)
譶	to talk fast
護	to protect
護佑	to bless and protect; to protect
護國戰爭	National Protection War or Campaign to Defend the Republic (1915), a rebellion against the installation of Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3] as emperor
護國軍	National Protection Army of 1915 (in rebellion against Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3])
護國運動	Campaign to Defend the Republic (1915) or National Protection War, a rebellion against the installation of Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3] as emperor
護城河	moat (surrounding the city wall)
護士	nurse
護士站	nurses' station (in a hospital or clinic)
護孔環	(Tw) grommet
護封	dust jacket (of a book); protective cover; document seal
護工	nurse's aide; nursing assistant; care worker
護師	senior nurse (nursing rank)
護手盤	hand guard (e.g. on saber)
護手霜	hand cream; hand lotion
護林員	forest ranger
護欄	guardrail; railing
護法	to keep the law; to protect Buddha's teachings
護法戰爭	National protection war or Campaign to defend the republic (1915), a rebellion against the installation of Yuan Shikai as emperor
護法神	protector deities of Buddhist law
護照	passport
護犢子	(of a woman) to be fiercely protective of one's children
護理	to nurse; to care for
護理學	nursing
護理師	nurse
護生	nursing student; (Buddhism) to preserve the lives of all living beings
護甲	armor; bulletproof vest
護目鏡	goggles; protective glasses
護盾	(historical weaponry) shield
護短	to defend sb (a relative, friend or oneself) despite knowing that that person is in the wrong
護翼	to provide protection; to take under one's wing
護老者	carer of elderly persons; aged care worker
護肘	elbow pad; elbow support
護脛	shin pad; shin guard
護膚	skincare
護膝	kneepad; knee brace
護航	a naval escort; to convoy
護航艦	escort vessel
護著	to protect; to guard; to shield
護衛	to guard; to protect; bodyguard (for officials in ancient times)
護衛艇	escort vessel; corvette
護衛艦	escort vessel; frigate; corvette
護貝	(Tw) (stationery) to laminate
護貝機	laminating machine; laminator
護貝膠膜	(Tw) laminating film; laminating pouch
護身符	amulet; protective talisman; charm
護身符子	amulet; protective talisman; charm
護軌	(railway) guard rail
護送	to escort; to accompany
護頸套	cervical collar
護食	(of a dog etc) to guard its food
護髮乳	hair conditioner
護髮素	hair conditioner
譸	(literary) to curse; to deceive; to lie
譹	to shout; to roar; to terrify
譽	to praise; to acclaim; reputation
讀	to read out; to read aloud; to read
讀出	to read out loud; (computing) to read (data)
讀卡器	card reader
讀取	(of a computer etc) to read (data)
讀報	to read newspapers
讀寫	reading and writing
讀寫能力	literacy
讀後感	impression of a book; opinion expressed in a book review
讀心	to read sb's mind
讀懂	to read and understand
讀數	reading; data from meter
讀書	to read a book; to study; to attend school
讀書人	scholar; intellectual
讀書會	study group
讀書機	audio-output reading machine
讀本	reader; an instructional book
讀法	pronunciation; reading (of a Chinese character)
讀物	reading material
讀研	to attend graduate school
讀破	to read extensively and thoroughly
讀破句	incorrect break in reading Chinese, dividing text into clauses at wrong point
讀秒	to count down the remaining seconds (e.g. in games, rocket launches, New Year's Eve)
讀經	to study the Confucian classics; to read scriptures or canonical texts
讀者	reader
讀者文摘	Reader's Digest
讀萬卷書，行萬里路	(lit.) read ten thousand books and travel ten thousand miles (idiom)
讀譜	to read a score; to read music
讀賣新聞	Yomiuri Shimbun (Japanese newspaper)
讀音	pronunciation
讀頭	reading head (e.g. in tape deck)
讅	to investigate; to try (in court)
讆	to exaggerate; incredible
讇	to talk in one's sleep
變	to change; to become different; to transform
變亂	turmoil; social upheaval
變作	to change into; to turn into; to become
變修	to become revisionist
變做	to turn into
變價	to appraise at the current rate
變元	(math.) argument; variable
變兵	rebel soldier
變分	variation (calculus); deformation
變分原理	variational principle (physics)
變分學	calculus of variations (math.)
變分法	calculus of variations
變動	to change; to fluctuate; change
變化	(intransitive) to change; to vary; change; variation
變化多端	changeable; changing; varied
變化無常	(idiom) changeable; fickle
變化球	(baseball) breaking ball; (fig.) curveball; unexpected turn of events
變化莫測	unpredictable; changeable
變化音	(music) accidental (a note foreign to the key signature)
變卦	to change one's mind; to go back on one's word
變厚	to thicken
變回	to revert; to change back into
變壓器	transformer
變壞	to get worse; to degenerate
變天	to have a change of weather (esp. for the worse)
變奏	variation
變奏曲	variation (music)
變局	changing circumstances; turbulent situation
變工	to exchange labor
變幻	to change irregularly; to fluctuate
變幻莫測	to change unpredictably; unpredictable; erratic
變形	to become deformed; to change shape; to morph
變形蟲	amoeba; (fig.) sb or sth that is highly adaptable or changeable
變形金剛	Transformers (franchise)
變得	to become
變徵之聲	modified fifth note of the pentatonic scale
變心	to cease to feel a sense of loyalty (or gratitude etc) to sb or sth
變性	to denature; denaturation; to have a sex change
變性土	vertisol (soil taxonomy)
變態	to metamorphose (biology); abnormal; perverted
變態反應	allergic response; allergy
變態辣	(coll.) insanely spicy (the highest level of spiciness on a menu)
變成	to change into; to turn into; to become
變戲法	to perform conjuring tricks; to conjure; to juggle
變把戲	to perform magic; to do magic tricks; prestidigitation
變換	to transform; to convert; to vary
變換群	(math.) transformation group
變故	an unforeseen event; accident; misfortune
變數	variable factor; uncertainties; (math.) a variable
變文	a popular form of narrative literature flourishing in the Tang Dynasty (618-907) with alternate prose and rhymed parts for recitation and singing (often on Buddhist themes)
變星	variable star
變暖	to become warm
變暗	to darken
變更	to change; to alter; to modify
變本加厲	lit. change to more severe (idiom); to become more intense (esp. of shortcoming)
變格	case change (in grammar)
變樣	to change (appearance); to change shape
變法	to change the laws; political reform; unconventional method
變法兒	to try by all available methods
變流器	converter
變溫動物	poikilotherm (cold-blooded animal)
變溫層	thermocline
變為	to change into
變焦	(photography) zoom
變焦環	(photography) zoom ring
變現	to realize (an asset); to liquidate; to sell for cash; to monetize
變現能力	liquidity; marketability
變生肘腋	lit. calamity in one's armpit (idiom); a major coup happening on one's doorstep
變產	to sell off one's property
變異	variation
變異株	variant; variant strain (of virus)
變相	in disguised form; covert
變矩器	(automobile) torque converter
變硬	to stiffen
變磚	(of an electronic device) to brick; to become inoperable
變種	(biology) a mutation; a variety; a variant; a variety
變節	betrayal; defection; turncoat
變紅	to redden
變老	to grow old; to age; aging
變聲	voice change (at puberty); to alter one's voice (deliberately)
變聲器	voice changer (device or software)
變臉	to turn hostile suddenly
變色	to change color; to discolor; to change countenance
變色易容	to change color and alter one's expression (idiom); to go white with fear
變色龍	(lit. and fig.) chameleon
變蛋	(dialect) preserved egg; century egg
變裝	to change clothes; to dress up; to put on a costume; to cosplay
變裝皇后	drag queen
變裝秀	drag show; cross-dressing show
變裝者	cross-dresser
變調	tone sandhi; modified tone; (music) to change key
變調夾	(music) capo
變賣	to sell off (one's property)
變質	to degenerate; to deteriorate; (of food) to go bad; to go off
變質作用	metamorphism (geology)
變質岩	metamorphic rock (geology)
變身	to undergo a transformation; to morph; to turn into
變軟	to soften
變通	pragmatic; flexible; to act differently in different situations
變速	to change speed; to shift gear; variable-speed
變速傳動	to change gear
變速器	gearbox; speed changer; gear
變速桿	gear lever; stick shift
變速箱	gearbox; transmission
變造	to alter; to modify; to mutilate (of documents)
變造幣	illegally modified or altered currency
變道	to change lanes
變遷	changes; vicissitudes
變量	variable (math.)
變阻器	(electronics) variable resistor; rheostat
變電	power transformation
變電站	(transformer) substation
變革	to transform; to change
變革管理	change management (business)
變音	change in sound; altered pronunciation
變音記號	(music) accidental (symbol such as ♯, ♭ or ♮ modifying pitch)
變頻	frequency conversion
變體	variant
變魔術	to perform magical tricks
變黑	to darken
讋	to be frightened
讎	to collate; to proofread
讒	to slander; to defame; to misrepresent
讒佞	to defame one person while flattering another; a slandering toady
讒害	to slander; to defame and persecute
讒言	slander; slanderous report; calumny
讒諂	to defame one person while flattering another; a slandering toady
讒邪	lies and slander; malicious calumny
讓	to yield; to permit; to let sb do sth
讓人羨慕	enviable; to be admired
讓位	to abdicate; to yield
讓利	to give a discount; to make a concession
讓座	to give up one's seat for sb
讓步	to concede; to give in; to yield
讓渡	to transfer (property, rights etc); to cede
讓煙	to offer a cigarette
讓球	to concede points (in a game)
讓畔	to be accommodating in negotiating the boundary of one's field
讓胡路區	Ranghulu, a district of Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
讓路	to make way (for sth)
讓開	to get out of the way; to step aside
讕	to make a false charge
讕言	slander; calumny; to accuse unjustly
讕調	(literary) false rhetoric
讖	(literary) prophecy; omen
讖緯	divination combined with mystical Confucian philosopy, prevalent during the Eastern Han Dynasty (25-220)
讖語	prophecy; prophetic remark
讘	(old) to talk a lot; to talk nonsense; also pr. [zhe2]
讙	hubbub; clamor
讚	(bound form) to praise; to laud (variant of 贊|赞[zan4])
讚不絕口	to praise without cease (idiom); praise sb to high heaven
讚嘆	to exclaim in admiration
讚嘆不已	(idiom) to be full of praise and admiration; to marvel endlessly; to be in awe
讚揚	to praise; to approve of; to show approval
讚美	to admire; to praise; to eulogize
讚美詩	(Christianity) hymn; psalm
讚許	to praise; to laud
讚譽	to praise; to acclaim
讚賞	to admire; to praise; to appreciate
讚頌	to bless; to praise
讜	honest; straightforward
讞	to decide judicially
讟	to murmur; to slander
讬	nonstandard simplified variant of 託|托[tuo1]
谘	simplified form of 諮 (Note: In practice, 咨 is usually used in simplified Chinese rather than 谘, even though 咨 is not officially designated as the simplified form of 諮.)
谷	surname Gu
谷口	Taniguchi (Japanese surname)
谷地	valley
谷底	valley floor; (fig.) lowest ebb; all-time low
谷歌	Google, Internet company and search engine
谷氨酰胺	glutamine (Gln), an amino acid
谽	a mouth or opening
豁	open; clear; liberal-minded; generous; to exempt; to remit
豁免	to exempt; exemption
豁免權	immunity from prosecution
豁出去	to throw caution to the wind; to press one's luck; to go for broke
豁楞	(dialect) (variant of 劐弄[huo1 leng5]) to mix; to stir; to make trouble
豁然	wide and open; a flash of understanding
豁然開朗	suddenly opens up to a wide panorama (idiom); to come to a wide clearing
豁達	optimistic; sanguine; generous
豅	long and wide valley
豆	legume; pulse; bean; pea (CL:顆|颗[ke1],粒[li4])
豆乳	soymilk; (dialect) fermented bean curd
豆佉	(Buddhism) suffering (from Sanskrit "dukkha")
豆包	steamed bun with sweetened bean paste filling
豆奶	soy milk
豆娘	damselfly
豆子	bean; pea
豆干	pressed tofu; dried tofu (ingredient of Chinese cuisine made by pressing, drying and flavoring tofu to produce a firm chewy block, typically cut into thin strips when preparing a dish)
豆柴	a small-sized Shiba Inu dog (often marketed as "Mame Shiba", not a recognized breed)
豆橛子	(Shandong dialect) cowpea (Vigna unguiculata)
豆汁	douzhi, fermented drink made from ground mung beans; soy milk
豆沙	sweetened bean paste
豆沙包	bean paste bun
豆油	soy bean oil; (dialect) soy sauce
豆渣	okara (i.e. soy pulp, a by-product of making soymilk or tofu)
豆渣腦筋	idiot; porridge head
豆滿江	Dumangang, Korean name of Tumen river 圖們江|图们江[Tu2 men2 jiang1] in Jilin province, forming the eastern border between China and North Korea
豆漿	soy milk
豆瓣	cotyledon of a bean or pea (i.e. either of the halves of a bean or pea)
豆瓣網	Douban, PRC social networking website
豆瓣菜	watercress (Nasturtium officinale)
豆瓣醬	sticky chili bean sauce; doubanjiang
豆皀	pea or bean (dialect)
豆皮	dried beancurd (tofu)
豆科	Fabaceae; Leguminosae; legume family (botany)
豆科植物	legume; leguminous plant
豆粕	soybean meal
豆腐	tofu; bean curd
豆腐乳	fermented tofu
豆腐渣	okara (i.e. soy pulp, a by-product of making soymilk or tofu)
豆腐渣工程	jerry-built building project; lit. built on soybean dregs
豆腐皮	tofu skin (made by drying the skin that forms on the surface of soymilk during cooking, and therefore not actually made from tofu)
豆腐腦	jellied tofu; soft bean curd
豆腐花	jellied tofu; soft bean curd
豆花	jellied tofu; soft bean curd
豆芽	bean sprout
豆芽菜	bean sprouts
豆苗	pea shoots; bean seedling
豆莢	pod (of legumes)
豆菊	fried tofu skin (typically used as a hot pot ingredient)
豆萁	(literary) stalk of a bean plant (when dried, used as a cooking fuel)
豆蓉	sweetened bean paste
豆蓉包	bean paste bun
豆蔻	cardamom (Elettaria cardamomum); fig. a girl's teenage years
豆蔻年華	(idiom) (of a girl) 13 or 14 years old; early teens; adolescence
豆薯	yam bean (Pachyrhizus erosus), a vine with sweet edible root
豆薯屬	yam bean; Pachyrhizus genus
豆蟹	pea crab (Pinnotheres pisum)
豆袋彈	bean bag round
豆製品	legume-based product; soybean product
豆角	string bean; snap bean; green bean
豆豆帽	beanie
豆豆鞋	loafers (the name comes from the rubber "pebbles", which resemble beans, on the sole of some loafers)
豆豉	black bean; black bean sauce
豆豉醬	black bean sauce
豆雁	(bird species of China) taiga bean goose (Anser fabalis)
豆類	bean
豇	used in 豇豆[jiang1 dou4]
豇豆	cowpea (Vigna unguiculata)
豈	how? (emphatic question)
豈不	how couldn't...?; wouldn't it...?
豈敢	how could one dare?; I don't deserve such praise
豈料	who would have thought that; who would have expected that
豈有此理	how can this be so? (idiom); preposterous; ridiculous; absurd
豈止	not only; far from; more than
豈非	wouldn't it be ... ?
豉	salted fermented beans
豉油	soy sauce (chiefly in Cantonese and Hakka areas)
豊	ceremonial vessel
豋	ceremonial vessel
豌	used in 豌豆[wan1 dou4]
豌豆	pea (Pisum sativum)
豌豆尖	pea shoots
豌豆粥	pea gruel
豌豆象	pea weevil
豍	pea (Pisum sativum)
豎	to erect; vertical; vertical stroke (in Chinese characters)
豎中指	to give the middle finger
豎井	vertical shaft (for mining, ventilation systems etc)
豎式	standing; vertical
豎彎鉤	乚 stroke in Chinese characters
豎折	(downwards-starting right angle character stroke)
豎提	stroke𠄌 in Chinese characters (e.g. 以[yi3])
豎琴	harp
豎直	vertical; to erect; to set upright
豎立	to erect; to set upright; to stand
豎笛	recorder (musical instrument); (Tw) clarinet
豎筆	vertical stroke (in Chinese characters)
豎起	to erect (a tent etc); to prick up (one's ears)
豎起大拇指	to give a thumbs-up; to express one's approval
豎起耳朵	to prick up one's ears; to strain to hear sth
豎鉤	vertical stroke with a hook at the end (in Chinese characters)
豏	half-grown beans
豐	abundant; plentiful; fertile
豐乳	to enlarge one's breasts (e.g. by surgery); large breasts
豐儉由人	fancy or simple according to one's budget
豐功	brilliant (exploit); meritorious (achievement)
豐功偉績	glorious achievement (idiom)
豐南區	Fengnan, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
豐厚	generous; ample
豐台區	Fengtai, an inner district of southwest Beijing
豐唇	to augment lip volume (through cosmetic surgery or injections)
豐城市	Fengcheng, a county-level city in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
豐富	to enrich; rich; plentiful
豐富多彩	richly colorful
豐寧滿族自治縣	Fengning Manchu Autonomous County, in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
豐年	prosperous year; year with bumper harvest
豐度	abundance
豐收	to reap a bumper harvest
豐林縣	Fenglin, a county in Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
豐水	abundant water; high water level
豐水期	period of plentiful water supply, with increased river flow due to snowmelt or higher rainfall
豐沛	copious; plentiful (of water); surging (of waves)
豐溪里	Punggye-ri, a village in Kilju County, North Hamgyong Province, North Korea, near the Punggye-ri Nuclear Test Site
豐滿	ample; well developed; fully rounded
豐滿區	Fengman, a district of Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
豐潤區	Fengrun, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
豐澤區	Fengze, a district of Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
豐產	high yield; bumper crop
豐田	Toyota or Toyoda (name); Toyota, Japanese car make
豐登	plentiful harvest; bumper crop
豐盈	well-rounded; plump
豐盛	rich; sumptuous
豐碑	large inscribed stele; fig. great achievement
豐碩	plentiful; substantial; rich (in resources etc)
豐縣	Feng County or Fengxian, a county in Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
豐美	abundant and prosperous
豐腴	full-bodied; well-rounded; fig. fertile land
豐臣秀吉	TOYOTOMI Hideyoshi (1536-1598), Japanese warlord, undisputed ruler of Japan 1590-1598
豐衣足食	having ample food and clothing (idiom); well fed and clothed
豐裕	well-off; affluent
豐足	abundant; plenty
豐都縣	Fengdu, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
豐鎮市	Fengzhen, a county-level city in Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
豐順縣	Fengshun, a county in Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
豐饒	rich and fertile
豔	bright; fresh and attractive; glamorous
豔陽天	bright sunny day; blazing hot day
豕	hog; swine
豕豞	grunting of pigs
豖	a shackled pig
豗	clash; grunting of pigs
豚	suckling pig
豚鼠	guinea pig (Cavia porcellus)
豜	fully grown pig; 3-year old pig
豝	corned beef; female pig; sow
豞	grunting of pigs
象	elephant; shape; form
象山區	Xiangshan, a district of Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
象山縣	Xiangshan, a county in Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
象州縣	Xiangzhou, a county in Laibin City 來賓市|来宾市[Lai2 bin1 Shi4], Guangxi
象形	pictogram; one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters
象形字	pictogram (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters)
象形文字	pictogram; hieroglyph
象徵	symbol; emblem; to symbolize; to signify; to represent
象徵主義	symbolism
象徵性	symbolic; emblem; token
象拔蚌	elephant trunk clam
象棋	Chinese chess
象棋賽	Chinese chess tournament
象海豹	elephant seal
象牙	ivory; elephant tusk
象牙塔	ivory tower
象牙海岸	Côte d'Ivoire or Ivory Coast (Tw)
象甲	weevil; snout beetle
象皮病	(medicine) elephantiasis
象聲詞	onomatopoeia
象草	elephant grass; napier grass
象蟲	weevil; snout beetle
象限	(math.) quadrant (of the coordinate plane)
象鼻山	Elephant Trunk Hill in Guilin, Guangxi
象鼻蟲	weevil; snout beetle
豢	to rear; to raise (animals)
豢圉	pen for animals; animal barn or stable
豢養	to keep (an animal)
豦	a wild boar; to fight
豨	swine
豨薟	common St. Paul's wort; Indian weed (Sigesbeckia orientalis)
豪	grand; heroic
豪俠	brave and chivalrous
豪傑	hero; towering figure
豪壯	magnificent; heroic
豪奢	extravagant; luxurious
豪宅	luxury home; mansion
豪富	rich and powerful; rich and influential person; big shot
豪強	despot; tyrant; bully
豪情壯志	lofty ideals; noble aspirations
豪擲	to spend (a large amount of money)
豪放	bold and unconstrained; powerful and free
豪氣	heroic spirit; heroism
豪氣干雲	lit. heroism reaching to the clouds (idiom)
豪爽	outspoken and straightforward; forthright; expansive
豪紳	local despot
豪華	luxurious
豪華型	deluxe model
豪華轎車	limousine; luxury carriage
豪薩語	the Hausa language
豪言壯語	bold, visionary words
豪豬	porcupine
豪車	luxury car
豪達	Gouda, a city in the Netherlands; Gouda (cheese)
豪邁	bold; open-minded; heroic
豪門	wealthy and influential family
豪雨	violent rain (e.g. due to monsoon or typhoon); cloudburst
豫	short name for Henan 河南[He2 nan2]
豫劇	Henan opera
豫告	to forecast; to predict; advance notice
豬	hog; pig; swine
豬下水	pig offal
豬仔	piglet; (old) exploited Chinese laborer tricked into working abroad
豬仔包	a French-style bread, similar to a small baguette, commonly seen in Hong Kong and Macao
豬倌	swineherd
豬八戒	Zhu Bajie, the pig character and second disciple of Tang Sanzang 唐三藏[Tang2 San1 zang4] in "Journey to the West" 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 ji4]
豬圈	(lit. and fig.) pigsty
豬場	piggery
豬婆龍	Chinese alligator (Alligator sinensis)
豬年	Year of the Boar (e.g. 2007)
豬悟能	Zhu Bajie 豬八戒|猪八戒[Zhu1 Ba1 jie4] or Zhu Wuneng, Pigsy or Pig (in Journey to the West)
豬拱菌	Chinese truffle
豬排	pork ribs; pork chop
豬朋狗友	dissolute companions; disreputable comrades
豬柳	pork fillet
豬欄	pigsty; pigpen
豬水泡病	swine vesicular disease (SVD)
豬油	lard
豬流感	swine influenza; swine flu; influenza A (H1N1)
豬流感病毒	swine influenza virus (SIV)
豬灣	Bay of Pigs (Cuba)
豬狗	pig-dog (intended as insult); Schweinhund
豬狗不如	worse than a dog or pig; lower than low
豬玀	(dialect) pig; swine
豬瘟	swine fever
豬癮	(slang) craving to eat; urge to pig out
豬窠	pigsty
豬窩	(lit. and fig.) pigsty
豬籠	cylindrical bamboo or wire frame used to constrain a pig during transport
豬籠草	tropical pitcher plant (i.e. genus Nepenthes)
豬精	pork bouillon powder
豬肉	pork
豬肚	pork tripe
豬腳飯	pork-leg rice – either a Guangdong (Chaozhou-Shantou) specialty of braised pork leg over rice or the Thai-Chinese dish "khao kha mu"
豬膻味	boar taint, the taste or odor of sweat or urine in pork from uncastrated pigs
豬舍	pig shed
豬苓	poria mushroom (Polyporus umbellatus)
豬草	weeds or grass used to feed pigs
豬血糕	pig's blood cake, popular as a snack in Taiwan, made from glutinous rice and pig's blood, typically coated in peanut powder and coriander and served with dipping sauces
豬蹄	pig trotters
豬鏈球菌	pig streptococcus; streptococcus suis
豬鏈球菌病	streptococcus suis (swine-borne disease)
豬隊友	(slang) incompetent teammate, coworker etc
豬頭	pig head; (coll.) fool; jerk
豭	boar; male pig
豱	short-headed pig
豱公	piggy (joking name)
豳	name of an ancient county in Shaanxi
豵	litter of pigs; little pig
豶	gelded pig
豷	breathing of pigs
豸	worm-like invertebrate; mythical animal (see 獬豸[xie4 zhi4])
豹	leopard; panther
豹子	leopard
豹拳	Bao Quan - "Leopard Fist" - Martial Art
豹紋	leopard pattern; leopard print
豹貓	leopard cat (Prionailurus bengalensis)
豺	dog-like animal; ravenous beast; dhole (Cuon Alpinus)
豺狼	jackal and wolf; ravenous wolf; fig. evil person
豺狼座	Lupus (constellation)
豺狼當道	(idiom) wicked people hold power; a vicious tyranny rules the land
豺狼虎豹	(lit.) jackals, wolves, tigers and panthers (idiom)
豻	(canine)
貂	sable or marten (genus Martes)
貂熊	wolverine (Gulo gulo)
貂皮	mink fur
貂蟬	Diaochan (-192), one of the four legendary beauties 四大美女[si4 da4 mei3 nu:3], in fiction a famous beauty at the break-up of Han dynasty, given as concubine to usurping warlord Dong Zhuo 董卓[Dong3 Zhuo2] to ensure his overthrow by fighting hero Lü Bu 呂布|吕布[Lu:3 Bu4]
貆	badger
貉	raccoon dog (Nyctereutes procyonoides)
貉子	raccoon dog (Nyctereutes procyonoides)
貉絨	precious fur obtained from skin of raccoon dog after removing hard bristle
貊	name of a wild tribe; silent
貌	(bound form) appearance; looks; outward form
貌似	to appear to be; to seem as if
貌合神離	the appearance of unity, but divided at heart (idiom); seeming harmony belies underlying disagreement
貌相	appearance (esp. superficial); looks; to judge a person by appearances
貌美	good looks; pretty (e.g. young woman)
貌美如花	(of a woman) lovely as a flower (idiom); beautiful
貌若潘安	to have the looks of a Pan An 潘安[Pan1 An1] (referring to a historical figure said to be extremely handsome)
貓	cat (CL:隻|只[zhi1]); (dialect) to hide oneself
貓兒	kitten
貓兒山	Kitten Mountain, Guangxi
貓咖	cat café
貓咪	kitty (affectionate term for a cat)
貓哭老鼠	the cat weeps for the dead mouse (idiom); hypocritical pretence of condolence
貓哭耗子	the cat weeps for the dead mouse (idiom); hypocritical pretence of condolence
貓奴	cat owner (neologism c. 2013, jocular)
貓娘	(ACG) catgirl
貓屎咖啡	"kopi luwak" or civet coffee, made from coffee beans plucked from Asian palm civet's feces
貓抓病	cat scratch disease; cat scratch fever
貓本	Melbourne (slang alternative for 墨爾本|墨尔本[Mo4 er3 ben3])
貓條	cat treat tube; squeeze-up cat treat
貓步	cat-like gait; sashaying gait of a catwalk model
貓王	Elvis Presley (1935-1977), US pop singer and film star
貓瘟	feline panleukopenia; feline distemper
貓眼	peephole (in a door); (mineralogy) chrysoberyl
貓砂	cat litter
貓科	Felidae (the cat family)
貓糧	cat food
貓聲鳥	catbird
貓腰	to bend over; to stoop down; Taiwan pr. [mao1yao1]
貓膩	(coll.) something fishy; shenanigans
貓舌頭	(fig.) (coll.) sensitivity to hot food or drink; person who has such a sensitivity
貓舍	cattery (cat-breeding establishment)
貓薄荷	catnip; catmint
貓門	cat door; cat flap
貓隻	(formal) cat (used in official documents, news reports etc)
貓霧族	Babuza, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
貓頭鷹	owl
貓飯	(coll.) homemade cat food
貓鼠遊戲	cat and mouse game
貔貅	mythical animal that brings luck and wards off evil, having head of a dragon and lion's body, often with hoofs, wings and tail
貘	tapir
貙	(archaic) animal resembling a tiger
貜	(ape)
貝	cowrie; shellfish; currency (archaic)
貝·布托	Benazir Bhutto (1953–2007), Pakistani politician, prime minister 1988–90 and 1993–96
貝丘	shell mound
貝九	Beethoven's Ninth
貝克	becquerel (unit of radioactivity, symbol Bq) (abbr. for 貝克勒爾|贝克勒尔[bei4 ke4 le4 er3])
貝克勒爾	becquerel (unit of radioactivity, symbol Bq); abbr. to 貝克|贝克[bei4 ke4]
貝克漢姆	Beckenham or Beckham (name)
貝克爾	Baker or Becker (name)
貝內特	(surname) Bennett
貝利卡登	Ballycotton (Irish: Baile Choitín), village near Cork
貝加爾湖	Lake Baikal, Russia
貝努力	Bernoulli (Swiss mathematical family, including Johann (1667-1748) and Daniel (1700-1782))
貝南	Benin (Tw)
貝卡谷地	Bekaa Valley between Lebanon and Syria
貝司	(music) (loanword) bass
貝塔	beta (Greek letter Β, β)
貝塔斯曼	Bertelsmann, German media company
貝多	pattra palm tree (loan from Sanskrit, Corypha umbraculifera), whose leaves were used as paper substitute for Buddhist sutras
貝多羅樹	Talipot palm (Corypha umbraculifera), whose leaves were used as writing media
貝多芬	Ludwig van Beethoven (1770-1827), German composer
貝娜齊爾·布托	Benazir Bhutto (1953–2007), Pakistani politician, prime minister 1988–90 and 1993–96
貝婭特麗克絲	Beatrix (name)
貝嫂	nickname for Victoria Beckham
貝寧	Benin
貝寶	PayPal (Internet payment and money transfer company)
貝拉	Beira, Mozambique
貝拉米	Bellamy
貝斯	(loanword) bass (esp. bass guitar)
貝斯吉他	bass guitar
貝斯手	bassist; bass player
貝果	(loanword) bagel
貝柱	the cylindrical adductor muscle of bivalve shellfish such as scallops
貝殼	shell (of a mollusk)
貝母	the bulb of the fritillary (Fritillaria thunbergii)
貝氏體	(metallurgy) bainite; bainitic
貝爾	Bell (person name)
貝爾墨邦	Belmopan, capital of Belize (Tw)
貝爾實驗室	Bell Labs
貝爾格勒	Belgrade, capital of Serbia (Tw)
貝爾格萊德	Belgrade, capital of Serbia
貝爾法斯特	Belfast, capital of Northern Ireland
貝爾湖	Buir Lake of Inner Mongolia
貝爾莫潘	Belmopan, capital of Belize
貝盧斯科尼	Silvio Berlusconi (1936–2023), Italian media magnate and right-wing politician, prime minister of Italy 1994–1995, 2001–2006, 2008–2011
貝納通	Benetton, clothes company
貝聿銘	Pei Ieoh Ming or I.M. Pei (1917-2019), Chinese-American architect
貝葉	pattra palm tree (Corypha umbraculifera), whose leaves were used as paper substitute for Buddhist sutras
貝葉斯	Bayes (name)
貝葉棕	pattra palm tree (Corypha umbraculifera), whose leaves were used as paper substitute for Buddhist sutras
貝葉經	sutra written on leaves of pattra palm tree
貝里斯	Belize (Tw)
貝雕	shell carving
貝雷帽	(loanword) beret
貝類	shellfish; mollusks
貝魯特	Beirut, capital of Lebanon
貝齒	pearly white teeth; cowry
貞	chaste
貞女	female virgin; widow who does not remarry
貞德	Jeanne d'Arc (1412-1431), French heroine and liberator, executed as a witch by the Burgundians and English
貞操	(usually of women) chastity; virginity; virtue
貞操帶	chastity belt
貞潔	chastity
貞烈	ready to die to preserve one's chastity
貞節	chastity; virginity (of women); moral integrity (of men)
貞節牌坊	memorial arch in honor of a chaste widow
貞豐縣	Zhenfeng, a county in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
負	to bear; to carry (on one's back); to turn one's back on
負一屏	left panel (displayed by swiping right from the main panel of the home screen)
負一層	(architecture) basement level 1; floor B1
負一樓	basement level 1; floor B1
負值	negative value (math.)
負債	to be in debt; to incur debts; liability (finance)
負債累累	deep in debt
負傷	to be wounded; to sustain an injury
負優化	to degrade the performance of a sold product via a system update
負分	negative score; minus (in grades, such as A-)
負反饋	negative feedback
負向	negative (response, emotion etc)
負增長	negative growth; economic recession
負壓	suction; negative pressure
負外部性	negative influence, effect that people's doings or behavior have on others (society)
負心	ungrateful; heartless; to fail to be loyal to one's love
負心漢	traitor to one's love; heartless rat
負擔	to bear (an expense, a responsibility etc); burden
負擔不起	cannot afford; cannot bear the burden
負整數	negative integer
負數	negative number
負方	the losing side
負有	to be responsible for
負有責任	at fault; blamed for; responsible (for a blunder or crime)
負極	negative pole; cathode
負氣	in a pique; sulky; cross
負無窮	(math.) negative infinity
負片	negative (in photography)
負疚	(literary) to feel apologetic; to feel guilty
負相關	negative correlation
負笈	(literary) to leave home to pursue studies in (a distant place)
負累	to implicate; to involve
負罪	(literary) to be culpable; to bear the blame; to feel guilty
負翁	debtor (jocular term, homonymous with 富翁[fu4 weng1])
負能量	negative energy; negativity
負荊請罪	lit. to bring a bramble and ask for punishment (idiom)
負荷	load; burden; charge
負號	negative value sign - (math.); minus sign
負責	to be responsible for; to be in charge of; to bear responsibility for
負責人	person in charge
負責任	to take responsibility; to bear responsibility; to be responsible
負載	to carry; to support; load
負載均衡	(computing) load balancing
負重	(lit. and fig.) to carry a heavy load; to carry a heavy burden
負重訓練	weight training
負隅頑抗	(idiom) to put up fierce resistance despite being surrounded; to stubbornly refuse to admit defeat
負離子	negative ion; anion (physics)
負電	negative electric charge
負面	negative; the negative side
負鼠	opossum (zoo.)
財	money; wealth; riches
財主	rich man; moneybags
財利	wealth and profit; riches
財力	financial resources
財務	financial affairs; finance
財務再保險	financial reinsurance (aka "fin re")
財務大臣	finance minister
財務秘書	treasurer
財務自由	financial independence
財務軟件	financial software; accounting software
財勢	wealth and influence
財團	financial group
財報	financial report
財大氣粗	rich and imposing; rich and overbearing
財季	fiscal quarter; financial quarter
財富	wealth; riches
財富自由	financial independence
財寶	money and valuables
財帛	wealth; money
財年	fiscal year; financial year
財政	public finance; government finance
財政大臣	finance minister; UK chancellor of exchequer
財政年度	fiscal year
財政部	Ministry of Finance
財政部長	minister of finance
財會	finance and accounting
財東	shop owner; moneybags
財權	property ownership or right; financial power; financial control
財源	financial resources; source of revenue
財源滾滾	profits pouring in from all sides (idiom); raking in money; bonanza
財物	property; belongings
財產	property; assets; estate
財產價值	property value
財產公證	property notarization
財產權	property rights
財相	minister of finance
財神	god of wealth
財神爺	god of wealth; very wealthy man
財禮	betrothal gift; bride price
財稅	finance and taxation
財稅廳	(provincial) department of finance
財經	finance and economics
財貿	finance and trade
財賦	government revenue; tributary goods and finances; finances and taxes
財路	livelihood
財迷	money grubber; miser
財迷心竅	mad about money (idiom)
財長	treasurer; head of finances; minister of finance
財閥	tycoon; magnate; powerful corporation; conglomerate
貢	to offer tribute; tribute; gifts
貢丸	pork ball
貢井區	Gongjing, a district of Zigong City 自貢市|自贡市[Zi4 gong4 Shi4], Sichuan
貢品	tribute
貢嘎縣	Gonggar, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
貢國	tributary state of China (old)
貢士	(old) candidate who has successfully passed the first grades of the examination system, but not yet the court examination (殿試|殿试[dian4 shi4])
貢多拉	(loanword) gondola (Venetian canal boat)
貢山獨龍族怒族自治縣	Gongshan Derung and Nu Autonomous County, in Nujiang Lisu Autonomous Prefecture 怒江傈僳族自治州[Nu4 jiang1 Li4 su4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
貢布	Kampot, town in Cambodia, capital of Kampot Province
貢物	tribute
貢獻	to contribute; to dedicate; to devote
貢獻者	contributor; benefactor
貢生	candidate for the Imperial Examination proposed by a tributary state
貢茶	Gong Cha, international franchise selling Taiwan-style milk tea and smoothies etc, established in Kaohsiung in 2006
貢覺縣	Gonjo, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
貢賦	tribute
貢高我慢	haughty and arrogant
貤	to promote; to reward
貧	poor; inadequate; deficient
貧下中農	(category defined by the Communist Party) poor and lower-middle peasants: farmers who, before land reform, possessed little or no land (poor peasants) and those who were barely able to support themselves with their own land (lower-middle peasants)
貧乏	impoverished; lacking; deficient
貧乳	small breasts; flat-chested
貧僧	(humble) I (used by Buddhist monks)
貧嘴	talkative; garrulous; loquacious
貧嘴滑舌	garrulous and sharp-tongued
貧嘴薄舌	garrulous and sharp-tongued
貧困	impoverished; poverty
貧困地區	poor region; impoverished area
貧困率	poverty rate
貧富	poor and rich
貧富差距	disparity between rich and poor
貧寒	poor; poverty-stricken; impoverished
貧尼	(humble) I (used by Buddhist nuns)
貧弱	poor and feeble
貧民	poor people
貧民區	slum area; ghetto
貧民窟	slum housing
貧氣	mean; stingy; garrulous
貧油	poor in oil
貧油國	country poor in oil
貧液	waste liquid; liquid with precipitate skimmed off
貧無立錐	not even enough land to stand an awl (idiom); absolutely destitute
貧無立錐之地	not even enough land to stand an awl (idiom); absolutely destitute
貧病交加	poverty compounded by ill health (idiom)
貧病交迫	beset by poverty and illness (idiom)
貧瘠	barren; infertile; poor
貧相	mean; stingy
貧礦	low grade ore
貧窮	poor; impoverished
貧窮潦倒	destitute; poverty-stricken
貧腔	verbose; garrulous
貧苦	poverty-stricken; poor
貧血	anemia
貧血性壞死	anemic necrosis
貧血症	anemia
貧賤	poor and lowly
貧賤不能移	not shaken by poverty; to preserve one's ambitions although destitute
貧農	poor peasant
貧道	(humble) I (used by Taoists)
貧鈾	depleted uranium (D-38)
貧限想	(Internet slang) (wryly jocular) poverty limits my power of imagination
貧雇農	poor peasants (in Marxism)
貨	goods; money; commodity
貨倉	warehouse
貨值	value (of goods)
貨到付款	cash on delivery (COD)
貨包	freight package; bale of goods
貨品	goods
貨幣	currency; monetary; money
貨幣主義	monetarism
貨幣供應量	(economics) money supply
貨幣兌換	currency exchange
貨幣危機	monetary crisis
貨幣市場	money market
貨幣貶值	currency devaluation; to devaluate a currency
貨攤	vendor's stall
貨架	shelf for goods; shop shelf
貨梯	freight elevator; goods lift
貨棚	covered stall; shed
貨棧	warehouse
貨機	cargo plane
貨櫃	counter for the display of goods
貨櫃車	(Tw) container truck
貨款	payment for goods
貨比三家	to shop around (idiom)
貨比三家不吃虧	shop around first and you won't get ripped off (idiom)
貨源	supply of goods
貨物	goods; commodity; merchandise
貨物運輸	freight or cargo transportation
貨盤	pallet
貨真價實	(lit.) genuine goods at fair prices (idiom)
貨站	cargo terminal
貨船	cargo ship; freighter
貨艙	cargo hold; cargo bay (of a plane)
貨色	goods; (derog.) stuff; trash
貨車	truck; van; freight wagon
貨載	cargo
貨輪	freighter; cargo ship
貨運	freight transport; cargo; transported goods
貨運列車	goods train; freight train
貨運卡車	freight truck
販	to deal in; to buy and sell; to trade in
販售	to sell
販夫	peddler; street vendor
販夫俗子	peddlers and common people; lower class
販夫走卒	lit. peddlers and carriers; common people; lower class
販嬰	child trafficking
販子	trafficker; dealer; monger; peddler
販毒	to traffic narcotics; drugs trade; opium trade
販私	to traffic (smuggled goods); illegal trading
販賣	to sell; to peddle; to traffic
販賣人口	trafficking in human beings
販賣機	(Tw) vending machine
販運	to transport (for sale); to traffic (in sth)
貪	to have a voracious desire for; to covet; greedy
貪占	to misappropriate
貪吃	gluttonous; voracious
貪吃鬼	glutton; chowhound
貪嘴	gluttonous
貪圖	to covet; to seek (riches, fame)
貪多嚼不爛	to bite off more than one can chew (idiom)
貪天之功	to claim credit for other people's achievements (idiom)
貪婪	avaricious; greedy; rapacious
貪婪無厭	avaricious and insatiable (idiom); greedy and never satisfied
貪官	corrupt official; grasping functionary; greedy mandarin
貪官污吏	grasping officials, corrupt mandarins (idiom); abuse and corruption
貪小失大	penny wise and pound foolish (idiom)
貪得無厭	avaricious and insatiable (idiom); greedy and never satisfied
貪心	greedy
貪心不足	avaricious and insatiable (idiom); greedy and never satisfied
貪念	greed
貪慾	greed; avarice; rapacious
貪戀	to cling to; to be reluctant to give up (sth)
貪杯	to drink in excess
貪求	to pursue greedily; to crave
貪求無厭	insatiably greedy (idiom)
貪汙腐化	(idiom) corruption
貪污	to be corrupt; corruption; to embezzle
貪污腐敗	corruption
貪瀆	(of an official) corrupt and negligent of his duty
貪猥無厭	avaricious and insatiable (idiom); greedy and never satisfied
貪玩	to only want to have a good time
貪生怕死	greedy for life, afraid of death (idiom); craven and cowardly
貪腐	corruption
貪色	greedy for sex; given to lust for women
貪財	to be greedy in getting money
貪賄無藝	greed for bribes knows no bounds (idiom); unbridled corruption
貪贓枉法	corruption and abuse of the law (idiom); to take bribes and bend the law
貪鄙	to be avaricious and mean
貪食	gluttonous; greedy
貪饞	gluttonous; greedy; insatiable
貫	to pierce through; to pass through; to be stringed together
貫串	to pierce through; to string together
貫徹	to implement; to put into practice; to carry out
貫徹始終	to follow through; to carry through to the end
貫時	diachronic
貫氣	(feng shui) beneficial influence, esp. from one's ancestral graves
貫注	to concentrate on; to give full attention to
貫穿	to run through; a connecting thread from beginning to end; to link
貫通	to link up; to thread together
貫連	to link up; to join together; to connect
責	duty; responsibility; to reproach
責令	to order; to enjoin; to charge
責任	responsibility; duty; liability
責任事故	accident occurring due to negligence
責任人	responsible person; coordinator
責任保險	liability insurance
責任制	system of job responsibility
責任心	sense of responsibility
責任感	sense of responsibility
責任編輯	editor in charge
責備	to blame; to criticize; condemnation
責問	to demand an explanation
責怪	to blame; to rebuke
責成	to charge (an entity) with (a task); to assign (sb) the task of
責打	to punish by flogging
責有攸歸	responsibility must lie where it belongs (idiom)
責無旁貸	to be duty bound; to be one's unshirkable responsibility
責編	editor in charge (abbr. for 責任編輯|责任编辑[ze2 ren4 bian1 ji2])
責罰	to punish
責罵	to scold
責難	to censure
貯	to store; to save; stockpile
貯備	to store
貯存	to store; to deposit
貯存器	storage device (computing)
貯存管	storage container for liquid or gas; gas holder
貯木場	lumber yard
貯水處	reservoir
貯熱	to conserve heat
貯物	storage
貯藏	to store up; to hoard; deposits
貰	to borrow; to buy on credit; to rent out
貲	to estimate; to fine (archaic)
貲郎	sb who purchases a public post
貳	two (banker's anti-fraud numeral); to betray
貳臣	turncoat official
貴	expensive; (bound form) highly valued; precious
貴人	nobility; person of high rank
貴人多忘	an eminent person has short memory (idiom)
貴公司	your company
貴南縣	Guinan, a county in Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海南藏族自治州[Hai3 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
貴古賤今	to revere the past and despise the present (idiom)
貴司	(courteous) your company
貴圈真亂	(slang, jocular, neologism c. 2006, used esp. in relation to public figures) the things you and your friends get up to (misbehavior, scandals etc) leave me shaking my head
貴國	your distinguished country
貴妃	senior concubine; imperial consort
貴妃床	chaise longue
貴妃醉酒	The Drunken Beauty, Qing Dynasty Beijing opera
貴姓	what is your surname?; (May I ask) your surname?
貴婦	upper-class woman; lady (old)
貴婦人	dame
貴婦犬	poodle
貴定縣	Guiding, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
貴州省	Guizhou Province, capital Guiyang 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4] (short name 貴|贵[Gui4] or 黔[Qian2])
貴幹	(polite) your business; what brings you?
貴庚	your age (honorific)
貴府	your home (honorific)
貴德縣	Guide, a county in Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海南藏族自治州[Hai3 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
貴恙	(courteous) your illness
貴方	(in business etc) your side; you
貴族	lord; nobility; nobleman
貴族化	gentrification; aristocratic; upper-class
貴族社會	aristocracy
貴校	(honorific) your school
貴格會	Society of Friends; the Quakers
貴池區	Guichi, a district of Chizhou City 池州市[Chi2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
貴港市	Guigang, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
貴溪市	Guixi, a county-level city in Yingtan City 鷹潭市|鹰潭市[Ying1 tan2 Shi4], Jiangxi
貴珊瑚	precious coral
貴胄	descendants of feudal aristocrats
貴賓	honored guest; distinguished guest; VIP
貴賓室	VIP lounge
貴賓犬	poodle
貴賤	noble and lowly
貴遠賤近	to revere the past and despise the present (idiom)
貴重	precious
貴金屬	precious metal
貴陽市	Guiyang, prefecture-level city and capital of Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
貶	to diminish; to demote; to reduce or devaluate
貶低	to belittle; to disparage; to play down
貶值	to become devaluated; to devaluate; to depreciate
貶多於褒	to get more criticism than praise
貶官	to demote an official; a demoted official
貶居	(period of) banishment or exile (old)
貶抑	to belittle; to disparage; to demean
貶損	to mock; to disparage; to belittle
貶斥	to demote; to denounce
貶稱	derogatory term; to refer to disparagingly (as)
貶義	derogatory sense; negative connotation
貶職	to demote
貶詞	derogatory term; expression of censure
貶謫	to banish from the court; to relegate
貶降	to demote
買	to buy; to purchase
買一送一	buy one, get one free; two for the price of one
買下	to purchase (sth expensive, e.g. a house); to acquire (a company, a copyright etc)
買不起	cannot afford; can't afford buying
買主	customer
買了佛冷	(Internet slang) eggcorn for the song lyrics "I love Poland" that became a catchphrase in 2018
買價	buying price
買兇	to hire a hitman
買入	to buy (finance)
買單	to pay the bill; to pick up the tab
買回	to buy back; to redeem; repurchase
買好	to ingratiate oneself
買官	to buy an official title; to use wealth to acquire office
買官賣官	buying and selling of official positions
買家	buyer; purchaser
買帳	to acknowledge sb as senior or superior (often in negative)
買房	to buy a house
買斷	to buy out; buyout; severance
買方	buyer (in contracts)
買方市場	buyer's market
買春	to visit a prostitute; (literary) to buy wine or drinks
買東西	to do one's shopping
買櫝還珠	to buy a wooden box and return the pearls inside
買票	to buy tickets; (Tw) to buy votes (in an election)
買空	to buy on margin (finance)
買空賣空	to speculate; to play the market; (fig.) to sell hot air
買笑追歡	lit. to buy smiles to seek happiness
買菜	to buy groceries
買賣	purchase and sale; transaction; shop; store
買路錢	money extorted by bandits in exchange for safe passage; illegal toll
買辦	comprador
買通	to bribe
買進	to purchase; to buy in (goods)
買醉	to get drunk; to drown one's sorrows
買關節	to offer a bribe
買面子	to allow sb to save face; to defer to
貸	to lend on interest; to borrow; a loan
貸學金	student loan
貸方	credit side (of a balance sheet); creditor; lender
貸款	a loan; to provide a loan (e.g. bank)
貸款人	the lender
貸款率	lending interest rate
貸記	to credit
貺	to bestow; to confer
費	to cost; to spend; fee
費事	troublesome; to take a lot of trouble to do sth
費利克斯	Felix
費力	to expend a great deal of effort
費力不討好	arduous and thankless task (idiom); strenuous and unrewarding
費加羅報	Le Figaro
費勁	to require effort; strenuous
費口舌	to argue needlessly; to waste time explaining
費周折	to spend (much) effort; to go through (a lot of) trouble
費唇舌	to argue needlessly; to waste time explaining
費城	Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
費奧多爾	Theodor of Fyodor (name)
費孝通	Fei Xiaotong (1910-2005), Chinese sociologist
費工夫	to spend a great deal of time and effort; (of a task) demanding
費德勒	Roger Federer (1981-), Swiss tennis star
費心	to take a lot of trouble (over sb or sth)
費拉	(loanword) fellah
費拉德爾菲亞	Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; abbr. to 費城|费城[Fei4 cheng2]
費時	to take time; time-consuming
費曼	Feinman or Feynman (name)
費洛蒙	pheromone
費爾巴哈	Ludwig Feuerbach (1804-1872), materialist philosopher
費爾干納	the Ferghana Valley (in Uzbekistan, central Asia)
費爾干納盆地	the Ferghana Valley in modern Uzbekistan
費爾馬	Pierre de Fermat (1601–1665), French mathematician
費率	rate; tariff
費用	cost; expenditure; expense
費盡心思	to rack one's brains (idiom); to take great pains to think sth through
費盡心機	to rack one's brains for schemes (idiom); to beat one's brains out
費盧傑	Fallujah, Iraqi city on Euphrates
費神	to spend effort; to take trouble
費米	Fermi (name)
費米子	(physics) fermion
費縣	Fei County or Feixian, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
費舍爾	(name) Fisher or Fischer
費解	to be puzzled; hard to understand; unintelligible
費話	to talk at length; to waste one's breath
費邊社	Fabian Society
費馬	Pierre de Fermat (1601–1665), French mathematician
費馬大定理	(math.) Fermat's Last Theorem
貼	to stick; to paste; to post (e.g. on a blog)
貼切	close-fitting; closest (translation)
貼合	to adjust closely; to fit
貼合面	faying surface
貼吧	Baidu Tieba, lit. "Baidu Post Bar", a Chinese online forum hosted by Baidu Inc.
貼圖	sticker (social messaging) (Tw)
貼士	(loanword) tip; hint; suggestion
貼心	intimate; close; considerate
貼心貼肺	considerate and caring; very close; intimate
貼息	to discount the interest on a bill of exchange
貼文	(social media) to post; a post
貼旦	female supporting actress in a Chinese opera
貼水	agio (charge for changing currency); premium
貼片式	(electronics) surface mount
貼牌	to supply products to be marketed under the buyer's brand name
貼現	discount; rebate
貼現率	discount rate
貼生	male supporting actor in a Chinese opera
貼畫	pinup picture; poster
貼秋膘	to gain weight in the fall (to prepare for winter)
貼紙	sticker
貼膜	protective or tinted film (for LCD screens, car windows etc)
貼花	appliqué; decalcomania
貼身	worn next to the skin; close-fitting; personal (servant etc)
貼身衛隊	personal bodyguard
貼近	to press close to; to snuggle close; intimate
貼邊	welt; facing (of a garment); to be relevant
貼金	to cover (a statue) with gold leaf; to gild
貼題	relevant; pertinent
貽	to present; to bequeath
貽人口實	to make oneself an object of ridicule
貽害	to have bad consequences
貽害無窮	to have disastrous consequences
貽燕	to leave peace for the future generations
貽笑	to be ridiculous; to make a fool of oneself
貽笑大方	to make a fool of oneself; to make oneself a laughing stock
貽笑方家	a novice making a fool of himself
貽範古今	to leave an example for all generations
貽誤	to affect adversely; to delay or hinder; to waste (an opportunity)
貽貝	mussel
貿	commerce; trade
貿易	(commercial) trade
貿易中心	trade center; shopping mall
貿易保護主義	trade protectionism
貿易公司	trading company
貿易協定	trade agreement
貿易壁壘	trade barrier
貿易夥伴	trading partner
貿易戰	trade war
貿易組織	trade organization
貿易貨棧	commercial warehouse
貿易逆差	trade deficit; adverse trade balance
貿易順差	trade surplus
貿易額	volume of trade (between countries)
貿然	rashly; hastily; without careful consideration
賀	to congratulate
賀信	congratulatory letter or message
賀函	letter of congratulations; greeting card (e.g. for New Year)
賀卡	greeting card; congratulation card
賀喜	to congratulate
賀子珍	He Zizhen (1910-1984), Mao Zedong's third wife
賀客	guest (to a wedding etc)
賀州市	Hezhou, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
賀年卡	New Year greeting card
賀年片	New Year's card
賀拉斯	Horace, full Latin name Quintus Horatius Flaccus (65-8 BC), Roman poet
賀普丁	Chinese brand name of Lamivudine 拉米夫定[La1 mi3 fu1 ding4]
賀朝	He Chao (active c. 711), Tang dynasty poet
賀正	to exchange compliments on New Year's Day
賀歲	to extend New Year's greetings; to pay a New Year's visit
賀爾蒙	(loanword) hormone
賀知章	He Zhizhang (659-744), Tang dynasty poet
賀禮	congratulatory gift
賀縣	He county in Guangxi
賀蘭山	Helan Mountains, lying across part of the border between Ningxia and Inner Mongolia
賀蘭山岩鷚	(bird species of China) Kozlov's accentor; Mongolian accentor (Prunella koslowi)
賀蘭山紅尾鴝	(bird species of China) Przevalski's redstart; Ala Shan redstart (Phoenicurus alaschanicus)
賀蘭山脈	Helan Mountains, lying across part of the border between Ningxia and Inner Mongolia
賀蘭縣	Helan, a county in Yinchuan City 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4], Ningxia
賀詞	message of congratulation
賀軍翔	Mike He (1983-), Taiwanese actor
賀錦麗	He Jinli, Chinese name adopted by Kamala Harris (1964-), US vice president 2021-
賀電	congratulatory telegram
賀龍	He Long (1896-1969), important communist military leader, died from persecution during the Cultural Revolution
賁	surname Ben
賁臨	(of a distinguished guest) honor my house (firm etc) with your presence
賁門	cardia (anatomy)
賂	bribe; bribery
賃	to rent
賄	(bound form) bribery
賄買	to bribe; bribery
賄賂	to bribe; a bribe
賄選	to buy votes (in an election)
賅	complete; full
資	resources; capital; to provide
資中縣	Zizhong, a county in Neijiang City 內江市|内江市[Nei4 jiang1 Shi4], Sichuan
資俸	salary; pay; wages
資優	(Tw) (of a student) gifted
資優班	(Tw) class composed of gifted students
資優生	brilliant student
資助	to subsidize; to provide financial aid; subsidy
資安	(Tw) information security (abbr. for 資訊安全|资讯安全[zi1 xun4 an1 quan2])
資工	abbr. of 資訊工程|资讯工程[zi1 xun4 gong1 cheng2]
資政	(literary) to assist in governing the country (used in titles of honorary advisory positions in imperial China)
資敵	to aid the enemy (with arms, ammunition, supplies, money etc)
資料	material; resources; data
資料中心	(Tw) data center
資料介面	data interface
資料倉儲	data warehouse (computing)
資料傳輸	data transmission
資料夾	(file) folder
資料庫	(Tw) (computing) database
資料片	a documentary film; (video gaming) expansion; add-on
資料量	quantity of data
資料鏈結層	data link layer
資斧	(literary) money for a journey; travel expenses
資方	the owners of a private enterprise; management
資望	seniority and prestige
資本	capital (economics)
資本主義	capitalism
資本儲備	capital reserve
資本外逃	outflow of capital
資本家	capitalist
資本市場	capital market
資本計提	capital requirement
資本論	Das Kapital (1867) by Karl Marx 卡爾·馬克思|卡尔·马克思[Ka3 er3 · Ma3 ke4 si1]
資格	qualifications; seniority
資格賽	qualifying round (in sports)
資歷	qualifications; experience; seniority
資治通鑒	A Mirror for the Wise Ruler (or Comprehensive Mirror for Aid in Government), a vast chronological general history, written by 司馬光|司马光[Si1 ma3 Guang1] Sima Guang (1019-1089) and collaborators during the Northern Song in 1084, covering the period 403 BC-959 AD, 294 scrolls
資深	senior; highly experienced; veteran
資淺	inexperienced; junior (employee etc)
資源	natural resource (such as water or minerals)
資源縣	Ziyuan, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
資溪縣	Zixi, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
資生堂	Shiseidō (Japanese cosmetics company)
資產	property; assets
資產價值	value of assets
資產剝離	asset stripping
資產擔保證券	asset-backed security; ABS
資產組合	asset portfolio
資產負債表	balance sheet
資產階級	the capitalist class; the bourgeoisie
資產階級右派	bourgeois rightist faction (esp. during anti-rightist movement of 1957-58)
資產階級革命	bourgeois revolution (in Marx-Leninist theory, a prelude to the proletarian revolution)
資用	(physics) available
資稟	talent; aptitude
資興市	Zixing, a county-level city in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
資訊	information
資訊工程	information engineering (Tw)
資訊科技	information technology; science of communications
資財	assets; capital and materials
資費	(postal, telecom etc) service charge
資質	aptitude; natural endowments
資遣	to dismiss with severance pay; to pay sb off
資遣費	severance pay (Tw)
資金	funds; capital
資金槓桿	(finance) leverage; gearing
資陽區	Ziyang, a district of Yiyang City 益陽市|益阳市[Yi4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
資陽市	Ziyang, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
賈	merchant; to buy
賈伯斯	Jobs (name)
賈南德拉	Gyanendra of Nepal
賈客	merchant (old)
賈寶玉	Jia Baoyu, male character in The Dream of Red Mansions, in love with his cousin Lin Daiyu 林黛玉 but obliged to marry Xue Baochai 薛寶釵|薛宝钗
賈平凹	Jia Pingwa (1952-), Chinese novelist
賈思勰	Jia Sixie, sixth century writer and author of agricultural encyclopedia Essential skill to benefit the people 齊民要術|齐民要术[Qi2 min2 Yao4 shu4]
賈慶林	Jia Qinglin (1940-), member of the Politburo Standing Committee 2002-2012
賈斯汀·比伯	Justin Bieber (1994-), Canadian singer
賈汪區	Jiawang, a district of Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
賈禍	(literary) to bring disaster upon oneself; to court disaster
賈第蟲	(biology) giardia (esp. Giardia lamblia)
賈第蟲病	(medicine) giardiasis
賈誼	Jia Yi (200-168 BC), Chinese poet and statesman of the Western Han Dynasty
賊	thief; robber; (bound form) traitor; subversive
賊亮	bright; shiny; dazzling
賊喊捉賊	lit. a thief crying "Stop the thief!" (idiom)
賊心	evil intentions
賊死	completely; utterly (dialect)
賊眉鼠眼	shifty-eyed; crafty-looking (idiom)
賊眼	shifty gaze; furtive glance
賊禿	(derog.) Buddhist monk
賊窩	thieves' lair
賊船	pirate ship; fig. venture of dubious merit; criminal gang
賊頭賊腦	lit. to behave like a thief; furtive; underhand
賏	pearls or shells strung together
賑	to provide relief; to aid
賑恤	relief aid
賑捐	money donation to relieve distress or famine
賑濟	to give relief aid
賑災	disaster relief
賒	to buy or sell on credit; distant; long (time)
賒欠	to offer credit; credit transaction; to buy or sell on account
賒賬	to buy or sell on credit; outstanding account
賒購	to buy on credit; to delay payment
賒銷	credit transaction; to sell on account
賓	visitor; guest; object (in grammar)
賓主	guest and host
賓主盡歡	both the guests and the hosts thoroughly enjoy themselves (idiom)
賓利	Bentley
賓士	(Tw) Mercedes-Benz, German car maker
賓夕法尼亞	Pennsylvania
賓夕法尼亞大學	University of Pennsylvania
賓夕法尼亞州	Pennsylvania
賓天	(euphemism) (of an emperor or other highly respected person) to pass away
賓客	guests; visitors
賓客盈門	guests filled the hall (idiom); a house full of distinguished visitors
賓川縣	Binchuan, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
賓州	Pennsylvania; abbr. for 賓夕法尼亞州|宾夕法尼亚州
賓得	Pentax, Japanese optics company
賓朋	guests; invited friends
賓朋滿座	guests filled all the seats (idiom); a house full of distinguished visitors
賓朋盈門	guests filled the hall (idiom); a house full of distinguished visitors
賓果	(loanword) bingo
賓格	accusative case (grammar)
賓治	(loanword) punch (mixed fruit drink)
賓縣	Bin County or Binxian, a county in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
賓至如歸	guests feel at home (in a hotel, guest house etc)
賓詞	predicate
賓語	object (grammar)
賓陽縣	Binyang, a county in Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
賓館	guesthouse; lodge; hotel
賕	to bribe
賙	to give to the needy; to bestow alms; charity
賙人	to help the needy; to bestow alms; charity
賙卹	to give to the needy
賙急	disaster relief
賙急扶困	disaster relief
賚	to bestow; to confer
賜	(bound form) to confer; to bestow; to grant; (literary) gift; favor
賜予	to grant; to bestow
賜姓	(of an emperor) to bestow a surname
賜教	(honorific) to impart one's wisdom; to enlighten
賜死	(of a ruler) to order sb to commit suicide (in lieu of execution)
賜爵	to bestow a noble title
賜福	to bless
賜給	to bestow; to give
賜鑒	(formal) (used in a submitted document) please review; for your kind consideration
賜顧	to honor (sb) by one's visit; to patronize (a shop or restaurant)
賝	(gem)
賞	to bestow (a reward); to give (to an inferior); to hand down
賞光	to do sb the honor (of attending etc); to put in an appearance
賞味期	period during which a food tastes its best
賞心悅目	warms the heart and delights the eye (idiom); pleasing; delightful
賞月	to admire the full moon
賞析	understanding and enjoying (a work of art)
賞罰	reward and punishment
賞臉	(polite) do me the honor
賞識	to appreciate; to recognize the worth of sth; appreciation
賞賜	to bestow a reward; a reward
賞金	monetary reward
賞金獵人	bounty hunter
賞錢	tip; gratuity; monetary reward
賞鑒	to appreciate (a work of art)
賞鳥	birdwatching
賠	to compensate for loss; to indemnify; to suffer a financial loss
賠上	to pay for sth with the loss of (one's health etc)
賠不是	to apologize
賠了夫人又折兵	lit. having given away a bride, to lose one's army on top of it (idiom)
賠付	to pay out; to compensate; (insurance) payment
賠償	to compensate
賠償金	compensation
賠小心	to be conciliatory or apologetic; to tread warily in dealing with sb
賠本	loss; to sustain losses
賠款	reparations; to pay reparations
賠率	betting odds
賠禮	to offer an apology; to make amends
賠笑	to smile apologetically or obsequiously
賠罪	to apologize
賠錢	to lose money; to suffer a financial loss; to pay for damages
賠錢貨	unprofitable goods; item that can only be sold at a loss
賡	(literary) to continue; to carry on
賡即	(formal) immediately; promptly
賡續	(literary) to continue; to carry on
賢	worthy or virtuous person
賢人	great person of the past; venerable forebear; the great and the good
賢內助	(said of sb else's wife) a good wife
賢勞	diligent
賢士	virtuous person; a man of merit
賢妻	(old) perfect wife; you, my beloved wife
賢妻良母	a good wife and loving mother
賢弟	worthy little brother
賢慧	(of a wife) wise and kind; perfect in her traditional roles
賢才	a genius; a talented person
賢明	wise and capable; sagacious
賢淑	(of a woman) virtuous
賢王	sage kings
賢相	sagacious prime minister (in feudal China)
賢者時間	(slang) post-nut clarity moment
賢者模式	(slang) state of post-nut clarity; post-orgasmic state of calm detachment
賢能	sage
賢良	(of a man) able and virtuous
賢達	prominent and worthy personage
賣	to sell; to betray; to spare no effort
賣主	seller
賣乖	to show off one's cleverness
賣傻	to play stupid; to act like an idiot
賣價	selling price
賣光了	to be sold out; to be out of stock
賣出	to sell; to reach (a price in an auction)
賣力	to work hard; to do one's very best
賣力氣	to make a living doing manual labor; to give sth all one's got
賣卜	to do trade as a fortune teller
賣命	to work tirelessly; to give one's all; to slave away
賣唱	to sing for a living
賣國	to betray one's country
賣國主義	treason
賣國賊	traitor
賣場	(big) store
賣完	to be sold out
賣官	to grant government positions in exchange for bribes
賣官鬻爵	(idiom) to grant government positions or official titles in exchange for bribes
賣家	seller
賣座	(of a movie, show or restaurant) to attract customers
賣弄	to show off; to make a display of
賣慘	(coll.) to play up one's misfortune to gain sympathy; to fish for pity
賣掉	to sell off
賣方	seller (in contracts)
賣方市場	seller's market
賣春	to engage in prostitution
賣本事	to flaunt a skill; to give display to one's ability
賣淫	prostitution; to prostitute oneself
賣淫女	prostitute; hooker
賣炭翁	The Old Charcoal Seller, poem by Tang poet Bai Juyi 白居易[Bai2 Ju1 yi4]
賣相	outward appearance; demeanor
賣破綻	to feign an opening in order to hoodwink the opponent (in a fight, combat etc)
賣空	(finance) to short sell
賣笑	to work as a good-time girl; to prostitute oneself
賣肉	to sell meat; (slang) to sell sex
賣苦力	to make a hard living as unskilled laborer
賣萌	(slang) to act cute
賣藝	to earn a living by performing (typically in informal or public settings)
賣身	to prostitute oneself; to sell oneself into slavery
賣身契	contract selling a person into servitude
賣錢	to make money by selling sth
賣關子	(in storytelling) to keep listeners in suspense
賣關節	to solicit a bribe; to accept a bribe
賣面子	to show deference to sb by obliging them (or by obliging sb associated with them)
賣風流	to exert flirtatious allure; to entice coquettishly
賣點	selling point
賤	inexpensive; lowly; despicable
賤人	slut; cheap person
賤內	my wife (humble)
賤格	despicable
賤民	social stratum below the level of ordinary people; untouchable
賤稱	contemptuous term
賤貨	bitch; slut
賤賣	to sell cheaply; sacrifice; low price
賤骨頭	miserable wretch; contemptible individual
賥	money and property
賦	poetic essay; taxation; to bestow on
賦予	to assign; to entrust (a task); to give
賦值	(computing, math.) to assign (a value); assignment
賦形劑	(pharm.) vehicle; excipient
賦格曲	(loanword) fugue
賦稅	taxation
賦能	(neologism c. 2019) to empower; to enable; to energize
賦詩	to versify; to compose poetry
賦閒	to stay idle at home; to have resigned from office; to be unemployed
賧	(old barbarian dialects) to pay a fine in atonement; river
賧佛	(Dai language) to make offerings to Buddha
賨	tribute paid by Han dynasty tribes
質	character; nature; quality
質問	to question; to ask questions; to inquire
質因數	prime factor (in arithmetic)
質地	texture; background (texture); grain
質子	proton (positively charged nuclear particle)
質子數	proton number in nucleus; atomic number
質子轟擊	proton bombardment
質庫	pawnshop (old)
質心	(physics) center of mass
質感	realism (in art); sense of reality; texture
質押	to pledge (sth, usu. moveables, as security for a loan)
質數	prime number
質料	material; matter
質明	at dawn
質樸	simple; plain; unadorned
質檢	quarantine; quality inspection
質檢局	quarantine bureau; quality inspection office
質疑	to call into question; to challenge (the truth or validity of)
質的飛躍	qualitative leap
質直	upright; straightforward
質粒	plasmid
質素	(high) quality
質詢	to question; to enquire; interrogatory
質證	examination of the evidence of the opposing party in a court of law
質譜	mass spectrometry
質譜儀	mass spectrometer
質變	qualitative change; fundamental change
質量	(physics) mass; quality (i.e. degree of excellence)
質量保障	quality assurance (QA)
質量塊	a mass; a body
質量數	atomic weight of an element; atomic mass
質量檢查	quality inspection
質量管理	quality management
質鋪	pawn shop
質難	to blame
質點	point mass; particle
賫	to present (a gift); to harbor (a feeling)
賬	account; bill; debt
賬冊	an account book; a ledger; a bill
賬單	bill
賬戶	(bank, computer etc) account
賬房	an accounts office (in former times); an accountant; a cashier
賬房先生	bookkeeper (old)
賬期	credit period
賬本	account book
賬款	money in an account
賬目	accounts; financial records; accounting entry
賬簿	account book; ledger
賬號	account number; account; username
賬載	per book; as recorded in the accounts
賬面	an item in accounts; an entry
賭	to bet; to gamble
賭上一局	to engage in a game of chance; to gamble; to make a bet
賭博	to gamble
賭咒	to swear to God; to cross one's heart
賭咒發誓	to vow
賭坊	(archaic) gambling house
賭城	casino town; nickname for Las Vegas
賭場	casino
賭客	gambler
賭局	game of chance; gambling party; gambling joint
賭徒	gambler
賭本	money to gamble with; (fig.) resources one can afford to risk
賭桌	gambling table; gaming table
賭棍	hardened gambler; professional gambler
賭氣	to act in a fit of pique; to get in a huff; to be peeved
賭注	stake (in a gamble); (what is at) stake
賭爛	(Tw) (slang) to be ticked off by (sb or sth); to be pissed at (sb or sth); to be in a foul mood; down in the dumps (from Taiwanese 揬𡳞, Tai-lo pr. [tu̍h-lān])
賭狗	(slang) degenerate gambler; compulsive gambler
賭球	(ball) sports betting
賭窩	gamblers' den; illegal casino
賭約	bet; wager
賭資	gambling money
賭錢	to gamble
賭鬭	to fight
賭鬼	gambling addict
賮	farewell presents
賴	surname Lai; (Tw) (coll.) LINE messaging app
賴以	to rely on; to depend on
賴婚	to go back on a marriage contract; to repudiate an engagement
賴安	Ryan (name)
賴床	to have a lie-in; to dawdle in bed
賴斯	Rice (name); Condoleezza Rice (1954-) US Secretary of State 2005-2009
賴昌星	Lai Changxing (1958-), notorious Xiamen mafia boss involved in large scale corruption and smuggling, extradited from Canada back to China in 2008
賴校族	campus dwellers (slang)
賴比瑞亞	Liberia (Tw)
賴氨酸	lysine (Lys), an essential amino acid
賴清德	William Lai Ching-te (1959-), Taiwanese DPP politician, vice president of the Republic of China from 2020
賴特	Wright (name)
賴皮	shameless; (slang) rascal
賴索托	Lesotho (Tw)
賴聲川	Lai Shengchuan (1954-), US-Taiwanese dramatist and director
賴臉	to be shameless
賴賬	to renege on a debt
賵	(literary) gift (of money etc) to a bereaved family
賺	to earn; to make a profit
賺取	to make a profit; to earn a packet
賺吆喝	(of a company) to gain recognition through promotional efforts; to spend money to win customers
賺哄	to cheat; to hoodwink; to defraud
賺回來	to earn back (money one invested, wasted etc)
賺大錢	to earn a fortune
賺得	to earn
賺錢	to earn money; moneymaking
賺頭	profit (colloquial)
賻	to contribute to funeral expenses
賻儀	money gift at a funeral
購	to buy; to purchase
購匯	to purchase foreign exchange
購得	to purchase; to acquire
購書券	book token
購物	shopping
購物中心	shopping center
購物券	coupon
購物大廈	shopping mall
購物廣場	shopping mall
購物手推車	shopping cart
購物節	shopping festival; large-scale promotional sales event (e.g. Singles' Day 雙十一|双十一[Shuang1 Shi2 yi1])
購物袋	shopping bag
購物車	shopping cart
購置	to purchase
購貨	purchase of goods
購買	to purchase; to buy
購買力	purchasing power
賽	to compete; competition; match
賽事	competition (e.g. sporting)
賽先生	"Mr Science", phrase used during the May 4th Movement 五四運動|五四运动[Wu3 si4 Yun4 dong4]
賽制	competition format; tournament system (e.g. round robin, single-elimination knockout etc)
賽力斯	Seres, Chinese electric vehicle brand
賽博	(loanword) cyber-
賽博朋克	(loanword) cyberpunk
賽博空間	cyberspace
賽因斯	(loanword) science (early 20th-century term)
賽場	racetrack; field (for athletics competition)
賽夏族	Saisiyat or Saisiat, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
賽季	season (sports)
賽德克族	Seediq, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
賽德娜	Sedna, small body in the outer reaches of the solar system
賽揚	Celeron (Intel microprocessor brand)
賽普勒斯	Cyprus (Tw)
賽會	religious procession; exposition
賽格威	Segway PT
賽段	stage of a competition
賽氏籬鶯	(bird species of China) Sykes's warbler (Iduna rama)
賽特	Seth (name)
賽珍珠	Pearl S. Buck (1892-1973), American writer known for her novels on Asian cultures, Pulitzer Prize and Nobel Prize laureate
賽璐玢	(loanword) cellophane
賽璐珞	(loanword) celluloid
賽百味	Subway (fast food restaurant)
賽程	competition schedule; the course of a race
賽罕區	Saihan, a district of Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
賽義迪	Said or Sayed (Arabic name)
賽船	boat race; racing ship or boat
賽艇	boat race; racing ship or boat; rowing (sport)
賽跑	race (running); to race (running)
賽車	auto race; cycle race; race car
賽車場	motor racetrack; cycle racetrack
賽車場賽	stadium cycle race
賽車女郎	pit babe; paddock girl; grid girl
賽車手	racing driver
賽輪思	Cerence, US company providing AI-based automotive assistants
賽道	race course
賽里木湖	Sayram Lake in Xinjiang
賽馬	horse racing; racehorse
賽馬場	race course; race ground; race track
賽馬會	horse racing organization; jockey club; turf club
賽點	match point (tennis etc)
賽龍舟	to race dragon boats
賽龍船	dragon-boat race
賾	mysterious
贄	gifts to superiors
贅	(bound form) superfluous
贅婿	son-in-law living at wife's parent's house
贅物	sth that is superfluous
贅生	excrescence; abnormal superfluous growth
贅疣	wart; (fig.) superfluous thing
贅瘤	wart; (fig.) sth superfluous and undesirable
贅肉	excess flesh; unwanted fat; flab; bulge
贅言	superfluous words; unnecessary detail
贅詞	superfluous words; unnecessary detail
贅語	superfluous words; pleonasm
贅述	to say more than is necessary; to give unnecessary details
贅餘	superfluous
贇	good appearance
贈	to give as a present; to repel
贈予	to give a present; to accord (a favor); to grant
贈品	gift; complimentary item; freebie
贈款	grant
贈禮	present; gift
贈與者	giver
贈芍	to give peonies; fig. exchange of gifts between lovers
贈送	to present as a gift
贉	pay an advance; silk book cover
贊	(bound form) to patronize; to support; to aid
贊不絕口	to praise without cease (idiom); praise sb to high heaven
贊丹	Zaandam (town in Netherlands)
贊助	to support; to assist; to sponsor
贊助商	sponsor
贊同	to approve of; to agree with (an opinion, action etc); to endorse
贊成	to approve; to endorse; (literary) to assist
贊成票	approval; affirmative vote
贊普	(hist.) title of the Tibetan Tufan ruler
贊比亞	Zambia
贊皇縣	Zanhuang, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
贊西佩	Xanthippe, Socrates' wife
贊詞	praise
贊辭	praise
贊饗	message dedicated to a deity
贍	to support; to provide for
贍養	to support; to provide support for; to maintain
贍養費	alimony; child support; maintenance allowance
贏	to beat; to win; to profit
贏利	gain; profit; to make a profit
贏家	winner
贏家通吃	winner takes all
贏得	to win; to gain
贏球	(ball sports) to win a match
贏面	chance of winning
贐	farewell presents
贓	stolen goods; loot; spoils
贓官污吏	grasping officials, corrupt mandarins (idiom); abuse and corruption
贓款	booty; stolen goods
贓物	booty; stolen property
贔	used in 贔屭|赑屃[bi4 xi4]
贔屭	(literary) (Chinese mythology) creature resembling a turtle with the head of a dragon, said to be capable of bearing great loads, often carved as plinths for steles in former times
贕	still-born chick (in unhatched egg)
贖	to redeem; to ransom
贖價	price paid to redeem an object; (religion) price paid to redeem sb
贖回	to redeem
贖款	ransom
贖罪	to atone for one's crime; to buy freedom from punishment; redemption
贖罪日	Yom Kippur or Day of Atonement (Jewish holiday)
贖罪日戰爭	the Yom Kippur war of October 1973 between Israel and her Arab neighbors
贖金	ransom
贗	false
贗品	fake; counterfeit article
贛	abbr. for Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
贛州市	Ganzhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
贛榆區	Ganyu, a district of Lianyungang City 連雲港市|连云港市[Lian2 yun2 gang3 Shi4], Jiangsu
贛江	Gan River in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
贛縣區	Ganxian, a district of Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
贛語	Gan dialect, spoken in Jiangxi Province
赤	red; scarlet; bare
赤佬	(dialect) scoundrel; rascal
赤兔	Red Hare, famous horse of the warlord Lü Bu 呂布|吕布[Lu:3 Bu4] in the Three Kingdoms era
赤匪	red bandit (i.e. PLA soldier (during the civil war) or Chinese communist (Tw))
赤口日	third day of the lunar year (inauspicious for visits because arguments happen easily on that day)
赤嘴潛鴨	(bird species of China) red-crested pochard (Netta rufina)
赤坎區	Chikan, a district of Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
赤城縣	Chicheng, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
赤壁	Red Cliffs, historic battlefield in Huangzhou District 黃州區|黄州区[Huang2 zhou1 Qu1], Huanggang 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei, site of the Battle of Red Cliffs in 208 AD
赤壁之戰	Battle of Redcliff of 208 at Chibi in Huangzhou district 黃州區|黄州区[Huang2 zhou1 qu1] of Huanggang city 黃岡|黄冈[Huang2 gang1], a decisive defeat of Cao Cao 曹操[Cao2 Cao1] at the hands of southern kingdom of Wu
赤壁市	Chibi, a county-level city in Xianning City 咸寧市|咸宁市[Xian2 ning2 Shi4], Hubei
赤子	newborn baby; the people (of a country)
赤子之心	pure and innocent like the heart of a newborn; sincere
赤字	(financial) deficit; red letter
赤字累累	debt-ridden; heavily laden with debt
赤尾噪鶥	(bird species of China) red-tailed laughingthrush (Trochalopteron milnei)
赤峰市	Chifeng, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
赤崁樓	Chihkan Tower (formerly Fort Provintia) in Tainan, Taiwan (also written 赤嵌樓|赤嵌楼[Chi4 kan3 lou2])
赤嵌樓	Chihkan Tower (formerly Fort Provintia) in Tainan, Taiwan (also written 赤崁樓|赤崁楼[Chi4 kan3 lou2])
赤手	with bare hands
赤手空拳	(idiom) with one's bare hands (unarmed – also figuratively: without assistance)
赤朱雀	(bird species of China) Blanford's rosefinch (Agraphospiza rubescens)
赤條條	stark naked
赤楊	alder tree (genus Alnus)
赤水市	Chishui, a county-level city in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
赤水河	Chishui River, tributary of Wei in Shaanxi
赤潮	algal bloom
赤狐	red fox (Vulpes vulpes)
赤眉	Red Eyebrows, rebel group involved in the overthrow of the Xin dynasty 新朝[Xin1 chao2]
赤睛魚	rudd
赤紅山椒鳥	(bird species of China) scarlet minivet (Pericrocotus speciosus)
赤翅沙雀	(bird species of China) Eurasian crimson-winged finch (Rhodopechys sanguineus)
赤翡翠	(bird species of China) ruddy kingfisher (Halcyon coromanda)
赤胸啄木鳥	(bird species of China) crimson-naped woodpecker; crimson-breasted woodpecker (Dryobates cathpharius)
赤胸擬啄木鳥	(bird species of China) coppersmith barbet (Psilopogon haemacephalus)
赤胸朱頂雀	(bird species of China) common linnet (Linaria cannabina)
赤胸鶇	(bird species of China) brown-headed thrush (Turdus chrysolaus)
赤腳	barefoot
赤腳律師	barefoot lawyer; grassroots lawyer
赤腳醫生	barefoot doctor; farmer with paramedical training (PRC)
赤腹鷹	(bird species of China) Chinese sparrowhawk (Accipiter soloensis)
赤膀鴨	(bird species of China) gadwall (Mareca strepera)
赤膊	bare to the waist
赤膊上陣	lit. to go into battle bare-breasted (idiom); fig. to go all out
赤膽忠心	lit. red-bellied devotion (idiom); wholehearted loyalty
赤蘚糖醇	erythritol, a sugar alcohol
赤蘚醇	erythritol, a sugar alcohol
赤衛軍	Red Guards
赤衛隊	Red Guards
赤裸	naked; bare
赤裸裸	bare; naked; (fig.) plain
赤褐色	russet; reddish brown
赤誠	utterly sincere; wholly devoted
赤誠相待	to treat utterly sincerely; open and above board in dealing with sb
赤誠相見	candidly sharing confidences
赤貧	poverty-stricken
赤貧如洗	without two nickels to rub together (idiom); impoverished
赤足	barefoot; barefooted
赤身	naked
赤身露體	completely naked
赤道	equator (of the earth or a celestial body); celestial equator
赤道儀	equatorial mount (for a telescope)
赤道幾內亞	Equatorial Guinea
赤道逆流	equatorial counter current
赤道雨林	equatorial rain forest
赤金	pure gold
赤鐵礦	hematite (red iron ore); ferric oxide Fe2O3
赤陶	terracotta; terra cotta
赤霞珠	Cabernet Sauvignon (grape type)
赤頸鴨	(bird species of China) Eurasian wigeon (Mareca penelope)
赤頸鶇	(bird species of China) red-throated thrush (Turdus ruficollis)
赤頸鶴	(bird species of China) sarus crane (Antigone antigone)
赤頸鷿鷈	(bird species of China) red-necked grebe (Podiceps grisegena)
赤麻鴨	(bird species of China) ruddy shelduck (Tadorna ferruginea)
赦	to pardon (a convict)
赦令	amnesty; pardon
赦免	to pardon; to absolve; to exempt from punishment
赦罪	to forgive (an offender)
赧	blushing with shame
赧然	blushing; embarrassed
赩	red; scarlet
赫	awe-inspiring; abbr. for 赫茲|赫兹[he4 zi1], hertz (Hz)
赫伯斯翼龍	Herbstosaurus (genus of pterosaur)
赫伯特	Herbert (name)
赫卡忒	Hecate (goddess of Greek mythology)
赫哲	Hezhen ethnic group
赫哲族	Hezhen ethnic group
赫哲語	Hezhen language (of Hezhen ethnic group of Heilongjiang province)
赫圖阿拉	Hetu Ala (Manchu: Yellow Rock), Nurhaci's capital at the 1619 Battle of Sarhu
赫塞哥維納	(Tw) Herzegovina
赫奇帕奇	Hufflepuff (Harry Potter)
赫山區	Heshan, a district of Yiyang City 益陽市|益阳市[Yi4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
赫德	Hart or Herd (name)
赫拉	Hera (wife of Zeus)
赫拉克利特	Heraclitus (535-475 BC), pre-Socratic philosopher
赫拉特	Herat (city in Afghanistan)
赫拉特省	Herat province of Afghanistan
赫斯提亞	Hestia (goddess of Greek mythology)
赫曼·麥爾維爾	Herman Melville (1819–1891), US novelist, author of Moby Dick 白鯨|白鲸[Bai2 jing1]
赫本	Hepburn (name)
赫然	with astonishment; with a shock; awe-inspiringly
赫爾	Hull (name); Kingston upon Hull
赫爾墨斯	Hermes (Greek god)
赫爾曼	Herman or Hermann (name)
赫爾曼德	Helmand (name)
赫爾穆特	Helmut (name)
赫爾穆特·科爾	Helmut Kohl (1930-), German CDU politician, Chancellor 1982-1998
赫爾辛基	Helsinki (Swedish Helsingfors), capital of Finland
赫特河公國	Principality of Hutt River (formerly Hutt River Province)
赫福特郡	Hertfordshire (English county)
赫章縣	Hezhang, a county in Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
赫羅圖	(astronomy) Hertzsprung-Russell diagram
赫耳墨斯	Hermes, in Greek mythology, messenger of the Gods
赫胥黎	Huxley (name)
赫芬頓郵報	Huffington Post (US online news aggregator)
赫茲	hertz (Hz), unit of frequency
赫茲龍	Hezron (name)
赫赫	brilliant; impressive; outstanding
赫赫有名	illustrious; prominent; prestigious
赫魯曉夫	Nikita Khrushchev (1894–1971), secretary-general of Soviet Communist Party 1953–1964
赬	deep red
赭	ocher
赭石	ocher (pigment)
赭紅尾鴝	(bird species of China) black redstart (Phoenicurus ochruros)
赭衣	convict's garb in ancient times; convict
赯	red; crimson
走	to walk; to go; to run
走下坡	(fig.) to decline; to deteriorate; to go downhill
走下坡路	to go downhill; to decline; to slump
走丟	to wander off; to get lost
走人	(coll.) to leave; to beat it
走低	to go down; to decline
走你	(neologism c. 2012) (interjection of encouragement) Let’s do this!
走來回	to make a round trip; a return journey
走俏	(a product) sells well; to be in demand
走偏	to deviate from the correct course; (fig.) to go astray
走偏鋒	to write with the tip of the brush tilted
走光	to expose oneself; to be completely gone
走入	to walk into
走內線	insider contacts; via private channels
走出	to leave (a room etc); to go out through (a door etc)
走動	to walk around; to move about; to stretch one's legs; to go for a walk
走勢	tendency; trend; path
走卒	pawn (i.e. foot soldier); servant; lackey (of malefactor)
走南闖北	to travel extensively
走去	to walk over (to)
走向	direction; strike (i.e. angle of inclination in geology); inclination
走向斷層	strike fault (geology)
走向滑動斷層	strike-slip fault (geology)
走味	to lose flavor
走嘴	a slip of the tongue; to blurt out (a secret or stupid mistake)
走回頭路	to turn back; to backtrack
走圓場	to walk around the stage (to indicate scene changes)
走地盤	live betting; in-play wagering
走地雞	free-range chicken
走失	to wander off; to get lost
走好運	to experience good luck
走娘家	(of a wife) to visit one's parental home
走子	a move (in chess)
走字	(of a clock or watch) to run; to register time
走寶	(Cantonese) to miss out on sth valuable
走山	landslide; avalanche; to take a walk in the mountains
走廊	corridor; aisle; hallway; passageway; veranda
走強	(of a currency, price etc) to strengthen; to be on the rise
走彎路	to take an indirect route
走形	out of shape; to lose shape; to deform
走形兒	out of shape; to lose shape; to deform
走形式	to go through the formalities
走後門	(lit.) to enter through the back door
走心	to take care; to be mindful; (Internet slang) to be moved by sth
走扁帶	slacklining
走扇	not closing properly (of door, window etc)
走投無路	to be at an impasse (idiom); in a tight spot; at the end of one's rope
走掉	to leave
走散	to wander off; to stray; to get lost
走時	(of a watch or clock) to keep time; (physics) propagation time
走板	to be off the beat; to sound awful (of singing)
走查	walkthrough (computing)
走桃花運	to have luck with the ladies (idiom)
走樣	to lose shape; to deform
走樣兒	to lose shape; to deform
走步	to walk; to step; pace
走水	to leak; to flow; to catch on fire
走江湖	to travel around the country (as itinerant peddler or entertainer)
走漏	to leak (information, secrets etc); to smuggle and evade tax
走漏消息	to divulge secrets
走火	to go off accidentally; to catch fire
走火入魔	to be obsessed with sth; to go overboard
走狗	hunting dog; hound; (fig.) running dog
走獸	(four-footed) animal; beast
走相	to lose one's good looks
走眼	a mistake; an oversight; an error of judgment
走神	absent-minded; one's mind is wandering
走神兒	absent-minded; one's mind is wandering
走票	amateur performance (in theater)
走禽	Ratitae (formerly Cursores) flightless birds such as ostriches
走秀	a fashion show; to walk the runway (in a fashion show)
走私	to smuggle; to have an illicit affair
走私品	smuggled product; contraband; pirate product
走私貨	smuggled goods
走穴	(of itinerant entertainers) to tour, playing in many venues
走紅	to become popular; to be a hit
走索	tightrope walking
走線	(neologism, attested by 2021) (slang) to illegally migrate (esp. from China to the U.S. via Latin America through high-risk routes)
走繩	tightrope walking
走背字	to have bad luck
走腎	(med) retractile testicle; infatuation inducing
走色	to lose color; to fade
走著瞧	wait and see (who is right)
走親戚	to visit relatives
走親訪友	to visit one's friends and relatives
走訪	to visit; to go around visiting (people or places)
走調	out of tune; off-key
走讀	to attend school as a day student
走資派	capitalist roader (person in power taking the capitalist road, a political label often pinned on cadres by the Red Guards during the Cultural Revolution)
走跌	(of prices, rates etc) to trend downward; to decline
走路	to walk; to go on foot; to leave; to depart
走近	to approach; to draw near to
走進	to enter; to step into
走運	to have good luck; to be in luck
走過	to walk past; to pass by
走過場	to go through the motions
走道	pavement; sidewalk; path
走避	to run away; to escape; to avoid
走鄉隨鄉	(proverb) to follow local customs; When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
走量	to sell large volumes of goods at low profit margins (as a business strategy)
走鋼絲	(lit. and fig.) to walk a tightrope
走錯	to go the wrong way; to take the wrong (road, exit etc)
走門路	to use social connections; to toady to influential people
走開	to leave; to walk away; to beat it; to move aside
走險	to take risks; to run risks
走音	(music) off-key; out of tune
走題	to get off the main topic; to digress
走風	to leak (a secret); to transpire
走馬	to ride (a horse); to go on horseback
走馬上任	(idiom) to take office; to assume a post
走馬燈	lantern with a carousel of paper horses rotating under convection, used at Lantern Festival 元宵節|元宵节[Yuan2 xiao1 jie2]
走馬看花	lit. flower viewing from horseback (idiom); fig. superficial understanding from cursory observation
走馬章臺	to go to the brothel on horseback (idiom); to visit prostitutes
走馬觀花	lit. flower viewing from horseback (idiom); a fleeting glance in passing
走鬼	unlicensed street vendor
赳赳	valiantly; gallantly
赴	to go; to visit (e.g. another country); to attend (a banquet etc)
赴任	to travel to take up a new post
赴宴	to attend a banquet
赴會	to go to a meeting
赴死	to meet death
赴湯蹈火	lit. to jump into scalding water and plunge into raging fire (idiom)
赴約	to keep an appointment
赴美	to go to the United States
赴考	to go and sit an examination
赴臺	to visit Taiwan
赴華	to visit China
赴陰曹	to enter hell
起	to rise; to raise; to get up
起亞	Kia (Motors)
起伏	to move up and down; to undulate; ups and downs
起作用	to have an effect; to play a role; to be operative
起來	(after a verb) indicating the beginning and continuation of an action or a state
起價	initial price (e.g. for the first kilometer); prices starting from
起先	at first; in the beginning
起初	originally; at first; at the outset
起到	(in an expression of the form 起到[qi3 dao4] + … + 作用[zuo4 yong4]) to have (a (motivating etc) effect); to play (a (stabilizing etc) role)
起勁	energetic; vigorous; enthusiastic
起動	to start up (a motor); to launch (a computer application)
起動鈕	starter button; on switch
起司	(Tw) (loanword) cheese
起司蛋糕	cheesecake
起名	to name; to christen; to take a name
起因	cause; a factor (leading to an effect)
起圈	to remove manure from a cowshed or pigsty etc (for use as fertilizer)
起士	(Tw) (loanword) cheese
起士蛋糕	cheesecake
起夜	to get up in the night to urinate
起始	to originate
起子	baking soda (used to leaven bread); screwdriver; bottle opener
起家	to start out by; to grow an enterprise beginning with
起小	since childhood
起居	everyday life; regular pattern of life
起居作息	lit. rising and lying down, working and resting (idiom)
起居室	living room; sitting room
起居間	living room
起床	to get out of bed; to get up
起床氣	grumpiness resulting from poor sleep; irritability in the morning
起床號	reveille
起底	(of authorities, journalists etc) to uncover hidden facts
起徵點	tax threshold
起意	to conceive a scheme; to devise a plan
起手	to set about (doing sth)
起承轉合	(idiom) four-part structure of a composition: introduction, elucidation, pivot (shift in perspective), synthesis; (fig.) coherent structural progression in writing, narrative, or any unfolding process
起拍價	starting bid; starting price (at an auction)
起搏器	pacemaker (medical device)
起撲	chip shot (golf)
起撲桿	chipper (golf)
起效	(of a medicine, poison, strategy, action etc) to begin to produce its effect; to start working
起敬	to feel respect
起早貪黑	to be industrious, rising early and going to bed late
起步	to set out; to set in motion; the start (of some activity)
起步價	starting price; base fare (for a taxi trip, construction project etc)
起死回生	to rise from the dead (idiom); fig. an unexpected recovery
起毛	fluff; lint; to feel nervous
起泡	to bubble; to foam; to blister
起泡沫	to emit bubbles; to bubble; to foam (with rage)
起源	origin; to originate; to come from
起火	to catch fire; to cook; to get angry
起爆	to explode; to set off an explosion; to detonate
起球	(of a sweater, fabric etc) to pill
起用	to promote; to reinstate (in a position or job)
起疑	to begin to suspect; to grow suspicious
起皮	(of skin) to peel
起皺紋	to shrivel
起眼	to catch one's eye (usu. used in the negative)
起碼	at the minimum; at the very least
起磁	magnetization; to magnetize
起程	to set out; to leave
起種	starter (for sourdough breadmaking)
起稿	to make a draft; to draft (a document)
起立	to stand; Stand up!
起粟	to get goose bumps
起義	uprising; insurrection; revolt
起航	(of a ship) to set sail; (of an airplane) to take off
起色	a turn for the better; to pick up; to improve
起草	to make a draft; to draw up (plans)
起落	to rise and fall; takeoff and landing; ups and downs
起落場	airfield; takeoff and landing strip
起落架	(aviation) landing gear; undercarriage
起落裝置	aircraft takeoff and landing gear
起薪	starting salary
起號	(slang) to build up a social media account (from scratch)
起見	motive; purpose; (sth) being the motive or purpose
起訖	beginning and end (dates)
起訴	to sue; to bring a lawsuit against; to prosecute
起訴員	prosecutor
起訴書	indictment (law); statement of charges (law)
起訴者	(law) plaintiff (in a civil case); prosecutor (in a criminal case)
起誓	to vow; to swear an oath
起課	to practice divination
起講	to start a story
起跑	to start running; the start of a race
起跑線	the starting line (of a race); scratch line (in a relay race)
起跳	(athletics) to take off (at the start of a jump)
起身	to get up; to leave; to set forth
起迄	start and end (dates); origin and destination
起造員	draftsman; draughtsman
起重	to lift (sth heavy) using a crane or other mechanical means
起重機	crane
起重葫蘆	hoist pulley
起釘器	staple remover
起釘錘	claw hammer
起錨	to weigh anchor
起開	(dialect) to step aside; Get out of the way!
起降	(of aircraft) to take off and land
起雲劑	clouding agent; emulsifier
起電機	electrostatic generator
起霧	(of fog or mist) to form; to set in; (of glass etc) to fog up
起頭	to start; at first; beginning
起飛	(of an aircraft or rocket) to take off; to lift off
起飛彈射	takeoff catapult (on aircraft carrier)
起鬨	to heckle; rowdy jeering; to create a disturbance
起點	starting point
起點線	starting line
赸	to jump; to leave
趁	to avail oneself of; to take advantage of
趁人之危	to take advantage of sb's difficulties (idiom)
趁便	to take the opportunity; in passing
趁勢	to take advantage of a favorable situation; to seize an opportunity
趁手	conveniently; without extra trouble; convenient; handy
趁早	as soon as possible; at the first opportunity; the sooner the better
趁機	to seize an opportunity
趁火打劫	(lit.) to loot a burning house (idiom)
趁熱	while it's still hot
趁熱打鐵	to strike while the iron is hot
趄	to slant; to incline
超	to exceed; to overtake; to surpass
超乎尋常	out of the ordinary; exceptional
超人	Superman, comic book superhero
超值	to be well worth the money one pays (for it); to be great value
超凡	out of the ordinary; exceedingly (good)
超出	to exceed; to overstep; to go too far
超前	to be ahead of one's time; to surpass or outdo one's predecessors
超前意識	foresight
超前消費	excessive consumption; spending beyond one's means
超前瞄準	to aim in front of a moving target
超升	exaltation
超博士	(Tw) postdoc; postdoctoral fellow
超友誼關係	relationship that is more than friendship
超員	overcrowded with people; overstaffed
超售	overbooking
超商	convenience store; mini-mart
超國民待遇	(law) privileges granted to foreigners exceeding those accorded to nationals of the host country (cf. 國民待遇|国民待遇[guo2 min2 dai4 yu4], national treatment)
超基性岩	ultrabasic rock (geology, rock containing less than 45 percent silicates)
超媒體	hypermedia
超對稱	supersymmetry
超導	(physics) superconduction; superconductivity
超導電性	(physics) superconductivity
超導電體	(physics) superconductor
超導體	(physics) superconductor
超市	supermarket (abbr. for 超級市場|超级市场[chao1 ji2 shi4 chang3])
超常	exceptional; well above average; supernatural; paranormal
超常發揮	to outdo oneself; to perform exceptionally well
超平面	hyperplane (math.)
超度	to surpass; to transcend
超弦	superstring (physics)
超我	superego
超拔	outstanding; to fast-track; to elevate
超支	to overspend
超敏反應	hypersensitivity
超文件	hypertext
超文件傳輸協定	hypertext transfer protocol; HTTP
超文本	hypertext
超文本傳輸協定	hypertext transfer protocol; HTTP
超文本傳送協議	hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP)
超文本標記語言	hypertext markup language; HTML
超新星	(astronomy) supernova; (fig.) breakout star
超時	to exceed the time limit; (to work) overtime; (computing) timeout
超標	to cross the limit; to be over the accepted norm; excessive
超模	supermodel
超泛神論	panentheism, theological theory of God as equal to the Universe while transcending it
超然	aloof; detached; disinterested; impartial
超物理	surpassing the physical world; metaphysical
超現實	surreal; surrealistic
超現實主義	surrealism
超生	(Buddhism) to be reincarnated; (fig.) to be lenient; to spare sb
超產	to exceed a production goal
超界	superkingdom (taxonomy)
超短波	ultra short wave (radio); UHF
超短裙	miniskirt
超等	superior grade
超算	supercomputing (abbr. for 超級計算|超级计算[chao1 ji2 ji4 suan4])
超級	super-; ultra-; hyper-
超級傳播者	super spreader (epidemiology)
超級名模	supermodel
超級大國	superpower (nation)
超級市場	supermarket
超級強國	superpower
超級月亮	supermoon
超級杯	Super Cup (various sports)
超級盃	Super Cup (various sports)
超級碗	Super Bowl (American football championship game)
超級細菌	superbug
超級英雄	superhero
超級計算	supercomputing
超級計算機	supercomputer
超級跑車	supercar; abbr. to 超跑|超跑[chao1 pao3]
超級鏈接	hyperlink (in HTML)
超級電腦	(Tw) supercomputer
超絕	surpassing; excelling; preeminent
超經驗	extra-empirical; outside one's experience
超維空間	hyperspace; superspace; higher dimensional space
超綱	beyond the scope of the syllabus
超群	surpassing; preeminent; outstanding
超群絕倫	outstanding (idiom); incomparable
超聯	(sports) superleague
超聲	ultrasonic; ultrasound
超聲掃描	ultrasonic scan
超聲波	ultrasound (scan)
超聲波檢查	echography; ultrasound scan
超能力	superpower; superhuman power
超脫	to stand aloof; to be detached from; to transcend worldliness
超臨界	supercritical
超自然	supernatural
超英	superhero (abbr. for 超級英雄|超级英雄[chao1 ji2 ying1 xiong2])
超譯	a translation that takes liberties with the original text
超負荷	excess load; an overload; overloaded
超賣	to overbook (e.g. airline seats); to oversell
超越	to surpass; to exceed; to transcend
超越主義	transcendentalism
超越數	transcendental number (math.)
超跑	supercar; abbr. for 超級跑車|超级跑车[chao1 ji2 pao3 che1]
超距作用	action at a distance (e.g. gravitational force)
超車	to overtake (another car)
超載	to overload
超速	to exceed the speed limit; to speed; high-speed
超連結	(Tw) hyperlink
超過	to surpass; to exceed; to outstrip
超遷	(literary) to be promoted more than one grade or rank at a time
超重	overweight (baggage, freight)
超重氫	(chemistry) tritium
超鏈接	hyperlink
超鏈結	(Tw) hyperlink
超限戰	unrestricted warfare (originally the title of a Chinese book published in 1999, later used to refer to war by any means, military or non-military, including cyberwarfare, economic warfare etc)
超雄	(slang) explosively aggressive; violently volatile (esp. of a male)
超雄綜合徵	XYY syndrome
超音波	ultrasound; ultrasonic wave
超音速	supersonic
超頻	overclocking
超額	above quota
超額利潤	superprofit; excess profit
超額訂購	to overbook
超額認購	(a share issue is) oversubscribed
超額配股權	an oversubscribed share
超馬	ultramarathon; abbr. for 超級馬拉松|超级马拉松[chao1 ji2 ma3 la1 song1]
超驗主義	transcendentalism
超高速	ultra high speed
超齡	too old; overage
越	generic word for peoples or states of south China or south Asia at different historical periods
越位	offside (sports)
越來越	more and more
越俎代庖	lit. to go beyond the sacrificial altar and take over the kitchen (idiom); fig. to exceed one's place and meddle in other people's affairs
越僑	Vietnamese resident in other countries (including in China)
越光米	Koshihikari rice (variety of rice popular in Japan)
越共	Communist Party of Vietnam; Viet Cong
越冬	to pass the winter; to overwinter; to live through the winter
越劇	Shaoxing opera
越南	Vietnam
越南刺鰟鮍	Acanthorhodeus tonkinensis Vaillant (small carp)
越南戰爭	Vietnam War (1955-1975)
越南文	Vietnamese written language; Vietnamese literature
越南民主共和國	Democratic Republic of Vietnam (aka North Vietnam), a country in Southeast Asia 1945-1976
越南盾	Vietnamese dong (currency)
越南語	Vietnamese language, Tiếng Việt
越國	Yue state
越城區	Yuecheng, a district of Shaoxing City 紹興市|绍兴市[Shao4 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
越城嶺	Yuecheng mountain range between south Hunan and Guangxi
越境	to cross a border (usually illegally); to sneak in or out of a country
越席	to leave one's seat
越幫越忙	to be officious; to kibitz; to be meddlesome
越式	Vietnamese-style
越戰	Vietnam War (1955-1975)
越描越黑	lit. the more you touch things up, the darker they get
越文	Vietnamese written language; Vietnamese literature
越橘	cowberry (Vaccinium vitis-idaea)
越權	to go beyond one's authority; arrogation
越演越烈	to be intensifying; to be getting worse and worse
越獄	to break out of prison; to jailbreak (an iOS device etc)
越獄犯	escaped prisoner
越王勾踐	King Gou Jian of Yue (c. 470 BC), sometimes considered one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸
越瓜	snake melon
越界	to cross a border; to overstep a bound
越發	increasingly; more and more; ever more
越禮	to overstep etiquette; not to observe priorities
越秀區	Yuexiu, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
越級	to skip a grade; to bypass ranks; to go over the head of one's boss
越職	to exceed one's authority; to go beyond the bounds of one's job
越西縣	Yuexi, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
越軌	to run off the track; to step out of line
越過	to cross over; to transcend; to cover distance
越野	to travel cross-country; to go off-road
越野賽跑	cross-country running
越野跑	cross country running
越野車	off-road vehicle
越陷越深	to fall deeper and deeper (in debt, in love etc)
越障	to surmount obstacles; assault course for training troops
越飛	Adolph Abramovich Joffe (1883-1927), Soviet and Comintern diplomat and spy in 1922-23 in Republican China
趐	(archaic) to enter; to fly
趑	to falter; unable to move
趑趄	to advance with difficulty; to hesitate to advance
趑趄不前	hesitant and not daring to move forward (idiom)
趑趄囁嚅	faltering steps, mumbling speech (idiom); hesitant; cringing; to cower
趒	to jump; to climb over; to leap
趔	used in 趔趄[lie4 qie5]
趔趄	to stagger; to stumble; to reel; Taiwan pr. [lie4ju1]
趕	to overtake; to catch up with; to hurry; to rush
趕上	to keep up with; to catch up with; to overtake
趕不上	can't keep up with; can't catch up with; cannot overtake
趕不及	not enough time (to do sth); too late (to do sth)
趕來	to rush over
趕出	to drive away
趕到	to hurry (to some place)
趕前不趕後	(saying) better to act early than rush later
趕工	to work against the clock; to hurry with work to get it done in time
趕巧	just by chance; as chance would have it
趕往	to hurry to (somewhere)
趕得及	to have enough time (to do sth); to be able to make it (in time)
趕忙	to hurry; to hasten; to make haste
趕快	quickly; at once
趕早	as soon as possible; at the first opportunity; the sooner the better; before it's too late
趕明兒	(coll.) some day; one of these days
趕時間	to be in a hurry
趕時髦	to keep up with the latest fashion
趕浪頭	to follow the trend
趕海	(dialect) to gather seafood at the beach while the tide is out; to comb the beach for shellfish, crabs or other marine life
趕盡殺絕	to kill to the last one (idiom); to exterminate; to eradicate
趕緊	hurriedly; without delay
趕羊	to drive sheep; to herd sheep
趕考	to go and take an imperial examination
趕腳	to work as a carter or porter
趕英超美	to catch up with England and surpass the USA (economic goal)
趕走	to drive out; to turn back
趕赴	to hurry; to rush
趕超	to overtake
趕跑	to drive away; to force out; to repel
趕路	to hasten on with one's journey; to hurry on
趕車	to drive a horse-drawn cart; to hasten to catch a train or bus
趕集	to go to a local market or country fair (on market day)
趕鴨子上架	lit. to drive a duck onto a perch (idiom)
趙	to surpass (old)
趙元任	Yuen Ren Chao (1892-1982), Chinese-American linguist
趙公元帥	Marshal Zhao, aka Zhao Gongming or Zhao Xuantan, God of Wealth in the Chinese folk tradition and Taoism
趙公明	Zhao Gongming, God of Wealth in the Chinese folk tradition and Taoism
趙匡胤	Zhao Kuangyin, personal name of founding Song emperor Song Taizu 宋太祖 (927-976)
趙國	Zhao, one of the seven states during the Warring States Period of Chinese history (475-220 BC)
趙子龍	courtesy name of Zhao Yun 趙雲|赵云[Zhao4 Yun2], general of Shu in Romance of the Three Kingdoms
趙宋	Song dynasty (960-1279)
趙客	knight of the Zhao State; generic term for a knight-errant
趙家人	(neologism 2015) the Zhao family (derogatory term for those who hold power in the PRC)
趙岐	Zhao Qi (-201 BC), early Han commentator on Mencius 孟子[Meng4 zi3]
趙州橋	Zhaozhou Bridge over Xiao River 洨河[Xiao2 He2] in Zhao county 趙縣|赵县[Zhao4 Xian4], Shijiazhuang, Hebei, dating back to the Sui dynasty 隋代[Sui2 dai4] (581-617) and the world's oldest extant stone arch bridge
趙忠堯	Zhao Zhongyao (1902-1998), Chinese pioneer nuclear physicist
趙惠文王	King Huiwen of Zhao 趙國|赵国, reigned 298-266 BC during the Warring States Period
趙括	Zhao Kuo (-260 BC), hapless general of Zhao 趙國|赵国[Zhao4 Guo2], who famously led an army of 400,000 to total annihilation at battle of Changping 長平之戰|长平之战[Chang2 ping2 zhi1 Zhan4] in 260 BC
趙曄	Zhao Ye, Han dynasty historian, author of History of the Southern States Wu and Yue 吳越春秋|吴越春秋
趙本山	Zhao Benshan (1958-), universally known PRC TV comedian
趙構	Zhao Gou (1107-1187), personal name of the tenth Song Emperor Gaozong 宋高宗[Song4 Gao1 zong1] (reigned 1127-1162)
趙樂際	Zhao Leji (1957-), member of the Politburo Standing Committee and Secretary of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection
趙樹理	Zhao Shuli (1906-1970), proletarian novelist
趙爾巽	Zhao Erxun (1844-1927), modern historian, compiled the Draft History of the Qing dynasty 清史稿
趙玄壇	Zhao Xuantan, God of Wealth in the Chinese folk tradition and Taoism
趙紫陽	Zhao Ziyang (1919-2005), PRC reforming politician, general secretary of Chinese Communist Party 1987-1989, held under house arrest from 1989 to his death, and non-person since then
趙縣	Zhao County or Zhaoxian, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
趙翼	Zhao Yi (1727-1814), Qing dynasty poet and historian, one of Three great poets of the Qianlong era 乾嘉三大家
趙薇	Zhao Wei or Vicky Zhao (1976-), Chinese film star
趙軍	army of Zhao 趙國|赵国 during the Warring States
趙雲	Zhao Yun (-229), general of Shu in Romance of the Three Kingdoms
趙高	Zhao Gao (?-207 BC), one of the most vile, corrupt and powerful eunuchs in Chinese history, responsible for the fall of Qin Dynasty
趟	classifier for times, round trips or rows; a time; a trip
趟渾水	(fig.) to get involved in an unsavory enterprise
趡	place name
趣	interesting; to interest
趣事	entertaining anecdote; interesting story or incident
趣劇	farce
趣味	fun; interest; delight; taste; liking; preference
趣多多	Chips Ahoy! (brand)
趣聞	funny news item; interesting anecdote
趦	unable to move
趦趄囁嚅	faltering steps; mumbling speech; hesitant
趨	to hasten; to hurry; to walk fast
趨之若鶩	to rush like ducks (idiom); the mob scrabbles madly for sth unobtainable
趨冷	(of economic activity, international relations etc) to cool
趨利避害	(idiom) to make the most of the benefits while avoiding adverse effects
趨力	driving force
趨勢	trend; tendency
趨化作用	chemotaxis (movement of leukocytes under chemical stimulus)
趨吉避凶	to seek luck and avoid calamity (idiom)
趨同	to converge
趨同進化	(biology) convergent evolution
趨向	direction; trend; to incline
趨奉	to fawn on; to kiss up to
趨於	to tend towards
趨時	(literary) to follow current trends; to conform to the fashion of the times
趨炎附勢	to curry favor (idiom); playing up to those in power; social climbing
趨緩	to slow down; to ease up; to abate
趨近	to approach (a numerical value); to converge to a limit (in calculus)
趨附	to ingratiate oneself
趫	nimble; walk on stilts
趮	easily provoked, hasty; fierce, cruel
趯	to jump; way of stroke in calligraphy
趲	to hasten; to urge
足	(bound form) foot; leg; sufficient; ample; as much as; fully
足下	you (used to a superior or between persons of the same generation)
足不出戶	(idiom) to not leave one's home; to stay indoors
足以	sufficient to...; so much so that; so that
足利	Ashikaga (Japanese surname and place name)
足利義政	ASHIKAGA Yoshimasa (1435-1490), eighth Ashikaga shōgun, reigned 1449-1473
足利義滿	ASHIKAGA Yoshimitsu (1358-1408), third Ashikaga shogun, reigned 1368-1394
足利義稙	Ashikaga Yoshitane (1466-1523), Japanese Muromachi shogun 1490-93
足協	soccer association; soccer federation (abbr. for 足球協會|足球协会[zu2 qiu2 xie2 hui4])
足協杯	soccer association cup
足印	footprint
足壇	soccer circles; soccer world
足夠	enough; sufficient
足尖	tip of the foot; toes
足尖鞋	(ballet) pointe shoe
足底筋膜炎	plantar fasciitis (medicine)
足弓	arch (of a foot)
足控	(slang) foot fetishist
足智多謀	resourceful; full of stratagems
足月	full-term (gestation)
足本	unabridged; complete book
足歲	one's age (calculated as years from birth)
足浴	foot bath
足球	soccer; football; a soccer ball; a football
足球協會	soccer association; soccer federation
足球場	football field; soccer field
足球賽	soccer match; soccer competition
足球迷	football fan
足球隊	soccer team
足療	foot massage
足癬	athlete's foot
足色	(gold or silver) of standard purity; (fig.) fine
足見	it goes to show that; one can see
足赤	pure gold; solid gold
足足	fully; no less than; as much as
足跡	footprint; track; spoor
足踝	ankle
足量	sufficient amount; full amount
足金	pure gold; solid gold
足額	sufficient; full (payment)
趴	to lie on one's stomach
趴伏	to crouch; to lie prone
趴窩	(coll.) (of a hen) to sit in the nest to lay or hatch eggs
趴趴走	(Tw) to wander about; to roam around freely (from Taiwanese 拋拋走, Tai-lo pr. [pha-pha-tsáu])
趴踢	(loanword) party
趴體	(loanword) party
趵	jump; leap
趷	to jolt
趹	to gallop
趺	instep; tarsus
趺坐	to sit in the lotus position
趼	(bound form) callus
趼子	callus (patch or hardened skin); corns (on the feet)
趼足	feet with calluses; fig. a long and hard march
趾	toe
趾尖	tiptoe
趾甲	toenail
趾疔	boil on the toe
趾高氣揚	high and mighty (idiom); arrogant
趿拉	to wear (one's shoes) like babouche slippers; (onom.) shuffling sound
趿拉兒	heelless slipper; babouche
跁	to squat; crouch
跂	to stand on tiptoe; to sit with feet hanging
跂坐	to sit with legs dangling
跂想	to expect anxiously
跂望	to stand on tiptoe looking forward to sb or sth
跂訾	opinionated
跂跂	crawling or creeping (of insects)
跅	careless
跆	to trample, to kick
跆拳道	taekwondo (Korean martial art)
跋	postscript; to trek across mountains
跋山涉水	to travel over land and water (idiom)
跋扈	domineering; bossy
跋桮	(Tw) (folk religion) to divine by casting moon blocks 筊杯[jiao3 bei1] (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [pua̍h-pue]) (equivalent to Mandarin 擲筊|掷筊[zhi4 jiao3])
跋涉	to trudge; to trek
跋胡疐尾	(idiom, from Book of Songs) unable to advance or retreat
跋語	short comment or critical appraisal added at the end of a text, on a painting etc
跌	to fall; to tumble; to trip
跌份	(coll.) to lose face
跌倒	to tumble; to fall; fig. to suffer a reverse (in politics or business)
跌停	(of a stock price) to fall to the daily lower limit (resulting in a suspension of trade in the stock)
跌停板	daily lower limit on the price of a stock
跌價	to fall in price
跌坐	to drop involuntarily into a seated position
跌宕	uninhibited; free and unconstrained; rhythmical
跌宕昭彰	flowing (of prose); free
跌市	falling stock prices; bear market
跌幅	decline (in value); extent of a drop
跌打損傷	injury such as contusion, sprain or fracture from falling, blow etc
跌打藥	liniment
跌撲	to tumble; to stumble and fall
跌斷	to fall and fracture (a leg, vertebra etc)
跌水	drop of height in waterway; staircase of waterfalls
跌眼鏡	to be taken aback
跌破	(of a market index etc) to fall below (a given level)
跌破眼鏡	(fig.) to be astounded
跌腳捶胸	lit. stamping and beating the chest (idiom); fig. angry or stressed about sth
跌至	to fall to
跌至谷底	to hit rock bottom (idiom)
跌落	to fall; to drop
跌足	to stamp one's foot (in anger)
跌跌撞撞	to stagger along
跌跌爬爬	stumbling along
跌跌蹌蹌	to dodder along
跌跤	to fall down; to take a fall
跌進	to fall into; to dip below a certain level
跌風	falling prices; bear market
跍	to squat
跎	to stumble; to waste time
跏	to sit cross-legged
跏趺	to sit in the lotus position
跐	to trample; to step; to walk on the ball of the foot
跑	(of an animal) to paw (the ground)
跑了和尚跑不了廟	the monk can run away, but the temple won't run with him (idiom)
跑了和尚，跑不了寺	the monk can run away, but the temple won't run with him (idiom)
跑來跑去	to scamper; to run around
跑出	to run out
跑刀	racing skates (for ice-skating)
跑分	(computing) to benchmark a computer, phone, CPU etc
跑味	to lose flavor
跑味兒	to lose flavor
跑咖	(Tw) (neologism) to go to a coffee shop
跑團	tabletop role-playing game
跑堂	waiter (old)
跑堂兒的	waiter
跑壘	running between bases (in baseball)
跑壘員	runner (in baseball)
跑官	to seek a government post through bribery or connections
跑得了和尚，跑不了廟	the monk can run away, but the temple won't run with him (idiom)
跑掉	to run away; to take to one's heels
跑業務	(of a salesperson) to visit potential customers with the aim of selling products or services
跑步	to run; to jog; (military) to march at the double
跑步機	treadmill; running machine
跑步者	runner
跑江湖	to make a living as a traveling performer etc
跑法	running style; racing technique
跑神兒	absent-minded; one's mind is wandering
跑票	to vote against the party line; to vote contrary to one's promise
跑者	runner
跑肚	(coll.) to have diarrhea
跑腿	to run errands
跑腿兒	to run errands
跑腿子	(dialect) to live as a bachelor; bachelor
跑調	to be off-key or out of tune (while singing) (colloquial)
跑警報	to run for shelter
跑贏	(finance) to outperform (the market); to outpace (inflation)
跑走	to escape; to flee; to run away
跑跑顛顛	to work hectically; to be on the go
跑路	to run; to go somewhere on foot; (coll.) to abscond; to run off (esp. to evade debts or legal trouble)
跑車	racing bicycle; racing car; sports car
跑遍	to go everywhere; to scour (the whole town)
跑道	athletic track; track; runway (i.e. airstrip)
跑酷	(loanword) parkour
跑錶	stopwatch
跑電	electrical leakage
跑鞋	running shoes
跑題	to digress; to stray from the topic
跑馬	horse race; to ride a horse at a fast pace; (dialect) wet dream
跑馬圈地	rushing to stake one's claim in new markets (idiom)
跑馬地	Happy Valley (suburb of Hong Kong)
跑馬場	racecourse
跑馬山	Paoma Mountain in Kangding 康定[Kang1 ding4], Sichuan
跑馬廳	horse racing track; racetrack
跑馬燈	lantern with a carousel of paper horses rotating under convection, used at Lantern Festival 元宵節|元宵节[Yuan2 xiao1 jie2]
跑龍套	to play a small role
跕	shuffle
跗	instep; tarsus
跗猴	tarsier
跙	weak, lame
跚	used in 蹣跚|蹒跚[pan2 shan1]
跛	to limp; lame; crippled
跛子	lame person; cripple
跛腳	to limp; lame person
跛足	lame
距	to be at a distance of ... from; to be apart from
距今	before the present; (a long period) ago
距翅麥雞	(bird species of China) river lapwing (Vanellus duvaucelii)
距角	elongation (astronomy)
距離	distance; to be apart from
距離產生美	absence makes the heart grow fonder
跟	heel; to follow closely; to go with
跟上	to catch up with; to keep pace with
跟不上	not able to keep up with
跟丟	to lose track of
跟人	to marry (of woman)
跟前	(of children, parents etc) at one's side; living with one
跟包	to work as footman; to do odd jobs; to understudy (an opera actor)
跟團遊	to travel in a tour group
跟屁股	to tag along behind; to follow sb closely
跟屁蟲	lit. bum beetle; sb who tags along; shadow
跟差	attendant
跟從	to follow; (of a woman) to get married; (old) attendant
跟手	(coll.) while doing it; on the way through
跟投	(finance) to co-invest; to invest alongside a lead investor
跟拍	to document on film the course of events; to follow sb with a camera
跟斗	somersault; fall; tumble; (fig.) setback; failure
跟注	to match a bet; to call (poker)
跟班	attendant; footman (servant)
跟監	(Tw) to tail (sb) (abbr. for 跟蹤監視|跟踪监视[gen1 zong1 jian1 shi4])
跟腱	heel tendon of mammals; Achilles tendon
跟腳	to feet the feet perfectly; to follow closely; hard on sb's heels
跟著	to follow after; immediately afterwards
跟蹤	to follow sb's tracks; to tail; to shadow
跟蹤器	tracker (device)
跟蹤狂	stalker
跟蹤騷擾	(law) to stalk (sb)
跟進	to follow; to follow up
跟隨	to follow
跟頭	tumble; somersault
跟頭蟲	wriggler; mosquito larva
跟風	to follow the trend; to jump on the bandwagon
跡	(bound form) trace; mark; vestige; clue; Taiwan pr. [ji1]
跡線	trajectory
跡證	(Tw) traces
跡象	sign; indication; mark; indicator
跣	barefooted
跤	a tumble; a fall
跦	pace back and forth; to walk
跧	to curl up; to crouch
跨	to step across; to stride over; to straddle
跨上	to mount (a horse, bike, flight of stairs, rickshaw etc)
跨刀	to appear in sb's show
跨國	transnational; multinational
跨國公司	transnational corporation; multinational corporation
跨國化	to internationalize; to globalize
跨地區	interregional; spanning two or more PRC provinces
跨境	cross-border
跨學科	interdisciplinary
跨平台	(computing) cross-platform
跨年	to step into the new year; New Year
跨度	span; horizontal distance between vertical supports
跨徑	span (architecture)
跨性別	transgender
跨接器	jumper (electronics)
跨文化	intercultural
跨欄	hurdles; hurdle race (athletics)
跨步	to take a (striding) step
跨洲	intercontinental
跨海大橋	bay bridge (elevated bridge across stretch of water)
跨界	to go beyond the border; to be transboundary
跨省	interprovincial; multiprovincial
跨竈	to surpass one's father
跨線橋	flyover (road bridge)
跨語言	cross-language; polyglot
跨越	to step across; step over
跨越式	breakthrough; going beyond; leap-forward
跨足	to enter (a new market etc)
跨距	(Tw) span (architecture); time span
跨過	to surmount; to cross over
跨院	lateral court (in a Chinese house)
跨領域	interdisciplinary
跨鶴	to die; to fly on a crane
跨鶴西遊	to die
跩	to waddle; to swagger; (coll.) strutting
跪	to kneel
跪下	to kneel down
跪乳	(literary) (of a lamb) to kneel to suckle at the breast (used as a metaphor for filial piety)
跪伏	to crouch (of animal)
跪倒	to kneel down; to sink to one's knees; to grovel
跪叩	to kowtow
跪地求饒	to kneel and beg forgiveness
跪坐	to sit kneeling with legs folded underneath the thighs and buttocks resting on the heels
跪拜	to kowtow; to kneel and worship
跪毯	a prayer mat; a carpet for kneeling
跪禱	to kneel in prayer
跫	sound of footsteps
跬	brief; short step
跮	hasty walking
路	road (CL:條|条[tiao2]); journey; route
路上	on the road; on the way; en route
路不拾遺	lit. no one picks up lost articles in the street (idiom)
路亞	(loanword) lure fishing
路人	passer-by; stranger
路人甲	ordinary person A; generic person; some random person
路人皆知	understood by everyone (idiom); well known; a household name
路加	Luke; St Luke the evangelist
路加福音	Gospel according to St Luke
路北區	Lubei, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
路南區	Lunan, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
路南彝族自治縣	Lunan Yizu Autonomous County in Yunnan
路口	crossing; intersection (of roads)
路向	road direction; (fig.) direction; path
路基	(civil engineering) roadbed
路堤	(road or railway) embankment
路塹	(civil engineering) cutting (for a railway or highway)
路子	method; way; approach
路徑	path; route; method
路徑依賴	path dependence
路得	(Protestantism) Ruth
路得記	Book of Ruth
路德	Luther (name)
路德宗	Lutheran church
路德會	Lutheran church
路德維希	Ludwig (name)
路德維希港	Ludwigshafen am Rhein, German city on the Rhine opposite Mannheim
路德雀鶥	(bird species of China) brown-throated fulvetta; Ludlow's fulvetta (Fulvetta ludlowi)
路怒症	road rage
路政	road or railway administration
路數	stratagem; method; approach; (martial arts) movement
路旁	roadside
路易	(name) Louis
路易威登	Louis Vuitton (brand)
路易斯	(name) Louis; Lewis; Luis
路易斯安那	Louisiana, US state
路易港	Port Louis, capital of Mauritius
路條	travel pass
路樁	bollard
路標	road sign
路橋	road bridge
路橋區	Luqiao, a district of Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
路權	right of way
路段	stretch of road; section of a highway or railway
路殺	roadkill; death of animals caused by vehicle collisions
路氹	Cotai, portmanteau term referring to the islands of 路環|路环[Lu4 huan2] (Coloane) and 氹仔[Dang4 zai3] (Taipa) in Macau
路沙卡	Lusaka, capital of Zambia (Tw)
路況	road condition(s) (e.g. surface, traffic flow etc)
路演	road show or promotional tour (for a product etc)
路燈	street lamp; street light
路牌	street sign; road sign; street nameplate
路環	Coloane, an island of Macao
路由	routing (in computer networks)
路由協定	routing protocol
路由協議	routing protocols
路由器	router (computing)
路痴	person with a poor sense of direction
路碼表	odometer
路稅	road tax
路程	route; path traveled; distance traveled
路線	itinerary; route; political line (e.g. right revisionist road)
路線圖	route map; (lit. and fig.) roadmap
路緣	curb
路考	driving test
路虎	Land Rover
路衝	(feng shui) street layout in which the line of a road runs toward a house (as at a T-intersection), regarded as unfavorable for the occupants of the house
路西弗	Lucifer (Satan's name before his fall in Jewish and Christian mythology)
路西法	Lucifer (Satan's name before his fall in Jewish and Christian mythology)
路見不平，拔刀相助	lit. to intervene when one sees an injustice (idiom)
路費	travel expenses; money for a voyage; toll
路軌	track (railroad, streetcar etc)
路轉粉	(Internet slang) to go from being indifferent to being a big fan
路透	Reuters (news agency)
路透社	Reuters News Agency
路透集團	Reuters group plc
路途	(lit. and fig.) road; path
路途遙遠	it's a very long journey to get there
路遇	to meet (sb) by chance on the way somewhere
路過	to pass by; to pass through
路遙知馬力，日久見人心	just as distance determines the stamina of a horse, so does time reveal a person's true heart (proverb)
路邊	curb; roadside; wayside
路邊攤	roadside stall
路錐	traffic cone; road cone
路隊	a supervised line of schoolchildren walking in procession along public streets, esp. primary school students returning home after school
路隊長	schoolchild leader responsible for leading and maintaining order in a procession of schoolchildren along public streets
路障	roadblock; barricade
路霸	brigand; (modern) uncivil driver; road hog
路面	road surface
路面電車	(Tw) tram; streetcar
跱	to squat; to stop
跲	to stumble
跳	to jump; to hop; to skip over
跳一隻腳	to hop on one leg
跳井	to jump into a well (to drown oneself, esp. of ladies in fiction)
跳傘	to parachute; to bail out; parachute jumping
跳價	price jump
跳出	to jump out; fig. to appear suddenly
跳出火坑	lit. to jump out of a fire pit (idiom); to escape from a living hell
跳動	to throb; to pulse; to bounce
跳大神	(of a shaman) to dance and chant frenziedly in a trance, communicating with spirits or deities to expel evil, cure illness or pray for blessings
跳崖	to jump off a cliff
跳彈	ricochet
跳房子	hopscotch; to play hopscotch
跳擋	(of a car) to slip out of gear; to pop out of gear
跳板	springboard; jumping-off point; gangplank
跳梁	to jump up and down; to run rampant
跳梁小丑	(idiom) clownish troublemaker; contemptible buffoon
跳棋	Chinese checkers
跳槽	to leave one's job to take up a position elsewhere
跳樓	to jump from a building (to kill oneself)
跳樓價	extremely low price; knockdown price
跳樓機	drop tower; free fall tower (amusement ride)
跳水	to dive (into water); (sports) diving
跳河	to drown oneself by jumping into the river
跳皮筋	to play rubber band jump rope
跳票	(finance) (of a check) to bounce
跳級	to jump a year (at college)
跳級生	student who jumps a year
跳繩	to jump rope; to skip; a skipping rope; a jump rope
跳脫	(Tw) to break free of (outmoded ways of thinking etc); to move beyond; to transcend
跳腳	to stomp or hop about (in anxiety, anger etc); to dance on one's feet
跳臺	diving platform; diving tower; landing platform
跳臺滑雪	ski jumping
跳舞	to dance
跳蚤	flea
跳蚤市場	flea market
跳蛋	love egg (sex toy)
跳蛛	jumping spider; salticid (family Salticidae)
跳視	to saccade
跳跳糖	Pop Rocks; popping candy
跳躍	to jump; to leap; to bound
跳車	to jump from a car (or train etc)
跳軌	to jump onto the tracks in a suicide attempt
跳轉	(computing) to jump to (a new location in a hypertext document)
跳進	to plunge into; to jump into
跳進黃河洗不清	lit. even jumping into the Yellow River can't get you clean
跳過	to jump over; to skip (a step, chapter etc)
跳遠	long jump (athletics)
跳閘	(of a circuit breaker or switch) to trip; to jump a turnstile
跳集體舞	to do ensemble dancing; to dance in a group
跳電	(of a circuit breaker or switch) to trip
跳頻	frequency-hopping spread spectrum
跳馬	vault (gymnastics)
跳高	(athletics) high jump
跺	to stamp one's feet
跺腳	to stamp one's feet
跼	cramped; narrow
跽	kneel
踅	to walk around; turn back midway
踅摸	to look for; to seek (colloq.)
踆	squat
踉	used in 踉蹌|踉跄[liang4 qiang4]
踉蹌	to stagger; to walk falteringly
踊	leap
踏	to tread; to stamp; to step on
踏上	to set foot on; to step on or into
踏勘	to go and inspect (a site); to do an on-site survey
踏墊	floor mat; bathroom mat; car mat; doormat
踏實	firmly-based; steady; steadfast
踏春	to go for a hike in spring
踏月	to go for a walk in the moonlight
踏板	pedal (in a car, on a piano etc); treadle; footstool
踏板摩托車	scooter
踏板車	scooter
踏查	to investigate on the spot
踏歌	to sing and dance; general term for a round dance
踏步	stride; to step (on the spot); to mark time
踏步不前	to be at a standstill; to mark time
踏看	to investigate on the spot
踏破鐵鞋	(lit.) to wear out one's iron shoes (idiom)
踏破鐵鞋無覓處，得來全不費工夫	to travel far and wide looking for sth, only to find it easily
踏破門檻	to wear out the doorstep (idiom); to crowd at sb's door
踏空	to miss one's step
踏襲	to follow blindly
踏訪	to visit (a place)
踏足	to set foot on (a foreign land etc); to tread
踏踏實實	steady; steadfast
踏車	treadwheel; treadmill
踏進	to set foot in; to tread (in or on); to walk into
踏雪	to go for a walk in the snow
踏雪尋梅	to walk in the snow to view the flowering plum
踏雪板	snowshoe
踏青	lit. tread the green; go for a walk in the spring (when the grass has turned green)
踏青賞春	to enjoy a beautiful spring walk (idiom)
踏青賞花	to enjoy the flowers on a spring outing (idiom)
踐	to fulfill (a promise); to tread; to walk
踐約	to keep a promise; to honor an agreement
踐行	to carry out; to implement; to keep (one's word)
踐踏	to trample
踒	to slip and sprain a limb
踔	to get ahead; to stride; to excel
踖	to step; walk reverently
踘	leather ball; Taiwan pr. [ju2]
踜	to stumble; to slip; to fall
踝	ankle
踝骨	ankle bone; ankle
踞	to be based upon; to squat
踟	used in 踟躕|踟蹰[chi2 chu2]
踟躕	to waver; to hesitate
踟躕不前	hesitant to take action
踠	ankle; fetlock; bent
踡	to curl up
踢	to kick; to play (e.g. soccer)
踢拳	kickboxing
踢爆	to reveal; to expose
踢皮球	to kick a ball around; (fig.) to mutually shirk responsibility
踢腳板	baseboard; skirting board
踢腳線	skirting board
踢腿	to kick; to do a kick (in dancing, martial arts etc)
踢踏舞	tap dance
踢蹋舞	tap dance; step dance
踢館	to challenge an established martial arts school to a fight (to prove one's skills or gain reputation)
踢馬刺	horse spur
踣	(literary) to tumble; to fall down; (literary) to fall dead
踤	to butt against
踥	to walk with small steps
踥踥	moving back and forth
踥蹀	walking; in motion
踦	shin
踧	carefully; level; smooth
踩	to step on; to tread; to stamp
踩剎車	to step on the brake; to brake (when driving)
踩動	to operate by means of a pedal
踩失腳	to lose one's footing
踩奶	(of a cat) to knead (by rhythmically pushing with its front paws)
踩水	to tread water; to paddle or tramp in shallow water
踩空	to miss one's step
踩線	to scout for a tour operator
踩線團	group on a tour to get acquainted with the local situation
踩踏	to trample on
踩道	to scout; to reconnoiter
踩鑔	hi-hat
踩雷	to step on a mine
踩高蹺	to walk on stilts
踩點	to reconnoiter; to case the joint
踮	to stand on tiptoe; Taiwan pr. [dian4]
踮腳尖	to stand on tiptoe
踱	to pace; to stroll; Taiwan pr. [duo4]
踱方步	to pace; to stroll
踱步	to pace; to stroll
踴	leap
踴躍	to leap; to jump; eager
踵	to arrive; to follow; heel
踶	to kick; to tread on
踶跂	overconfident and conceited mannerisms
踹	to kick; to trample; to tread on
踹共	(Tw) (neologism, attested by 2010) to speak one's mind directly (face to face with the person with whom one has an issue) (from Taiwanese 出來講, Tai-lo pr. [tshut-lâi kóng], with "tshut-lâi" pronounced in contracted form as "tshòai")
踺	used in 踺子[jian4 zi5]
踺子	(gymnastics) roundoff
踼	to fall flat; to fall on the face
踽	hunchbacked; walk alone
踽踽獨行	to walk alone (idiom)
蹀	to tread on; to stamp one's foot
蹀足	to stamp the feet (formal writing)
蹀蹀	to walk in a mincing gait (formal writing)
蹀躞	to walk in small steps; to pace about
蹁	to limp
蹂	trample
蹂躪	to ravage; to devastate; to trample on
蹄	hoof; pig's trotters
蹄印	hoofprint
蹄子	hoof; (old) wench; hussy
蹄膀	upper part of a pig's leg
蹅	(coll.) to trudge (in mud, snow etc)
蹇	lame; cripple; unfortunate
蹇修	(literary) matchmaker
蹇拙	clumsy (writing); awkward; obscure
蹇滯	awkward; ominous; unfavorable
蹇澀	awkward; lame; difficulty (esp. in moving)
蹇運	misfortune; bad luck
蹈	to tread on; to trample; to stamp
蹈常襲故	follow the same old path (idiom); stuck in a rut
蹉	to error; to slip; to miss
蹉跎	(literary) to slip; (of looks etc) to fade away
蹊	used in 蹊蹺|蹊跷[qi1 qiao1]; Taiwan pr. [xi1]
蹊徑	path; (fig.) way
蹊蹺	odd; queer; strange; fishy
蹋	to step on
蹌	stagger; sway from side to side
蹎	to fall forward (variant of 顛|颠[dian1])
蹐	walk with short steps
蹓	to stroll; walk a horse
蹔	to scurry
蹕	to clear streets when emperor tours
蹙	to knit (one's brows); wrinkled (of brows); to hesitate
蹙眉	to frown
蹚	to wade; to trample
蹜	walk carefully
蹝	slippers
蹟	(bound form) vestige; historical remains (variant of 跡|迹[ji4])
蹠	metatarsus; (literary) sole of the foot; (literary) to tread on
蹠骨	metatarsal bones; metatarsus
蹡	used in 踉蹡|踉𬧀[liang4 qiang4]
蹢	hoof
蹣	used in 蹣跚|蹒跚[pan2 shan1]; Taiwan pr. [man2]
蹣跚	to walk unsteadily; to stagger; to lurch; to hobble; to totter
蹣跚不前	to falter; to stall
蹤	(bound form) footprint; trace; tracks
蹤影	trace; vestige; presence
蹤跡	tracks; trail; footprint
蹦	to jump; to bounce; to hop
蹦出來	to crop up; to pop up; to emerge abruptly
蹦床	trampoline; to use a trampoline; trampolining
蹦極	(loanword) bungee jumping
蹦跳	to hop; to jump
蹦蹦兒車	motor tricycle (onom. bang-bang car)
蹦蹦跳跳	bouncing and vivacious
蹦躂	(coll.) to jump about; to be active; to be lively
蹦迪	disco dancing; to dance at a disco
蹦高	to jump
蹩	to limp; to sprain (an ankle or wrist)
蹩腳	inferior; shoddy; lousy
蹪	to stumble; to fall
蹬	to step on; to tread on; to put on; to wear (shoes, trousers etc)
蹬子	pedal
蹬腳	to stamp one's foot; to kick
蹬腿	to kick one's legs; leg press (exercise); (coll.) to kick the bucket
蹬鼻子上臉	lit. to climb all over sb; fig. to take advantage of sb's weakness
蹭	to rub against; to walk slowly; (coll.) to freeload
蹭吃	to freeload for food
蹭吃蹭喝	to cadge a meal
蹭熱度	(coll.) (often derog.) to piggyback on (sb's) popularity
蹭網	(coll.) to use sb else's Internet connection (with or without permission)
蹭課	(coll.) to sit in on a class
蹭蹬	(literary) to encounter setbacks; to have bad luck
蹭車	(coll.) to ride in sb else's car to save money
蹭飯	(coll.) to mooch a meal
蹯	paws of animal
蹲	(dialect) to sprain one's foot or leg due to a sudden impact or landing
蹲下	to squat down; to crouch
蹲伏	to crouch low and bend forward (esp. in hiding or in wait)
蹲便器	squat toilet
蹲坑	Turkish toilet; squat toilet; to vacate one's bowels
蹲大牢	to be behind bars
蹲守	to hang around keeping a watch out for sth
蹲廁	squat toilet
蹲膘	to fatten cattle in a shed; to become fat
蹲苦窯	(slang) to be behind bars
蹲踞	squat; crouch
蹲馬步	to do a martial-art squat
蹲點	(of a cadre etc) to work for a period of time with a grassroots unit to gain firsthand experience
蹴	carefully; to kick; to tread on
蹴鞠	cuju, ancient Chinese football (soccer)
蹶	to stumble; to trample; to kick (of horse)
蹺	to raise one's foot; to stand on tiptoe; stilts
蹺家	to run away from home
蹺課	to skip class
蹺蹺板	see-saw
蹻	to raise one's foot; stilts
蹼	web (of feet of ducks, frogs etc)
蹽	to run; to slip away; to stride
蹾	(coll.) to put sth down heavily; to plonk
躁	impatient; hot-tempered
躁動	to stir restlessly; to be agitated; commotion
躁熱	uncomfortably hot; feverish and restless
躁狂	manic
躁狂抑鬱症	manic depression
躁狂症	mania; manic episode
躁鬱症	bipolar disorder
躂	to stumble; to slip
躄	both feet crippled; lame
躅	used in 躑躅|踯躅[zhi2 zhu2]
躇	used in 躊躇|踌躇[chou2 chu2]
躉	wholesale
躉售	to sell wholesale
躉批	wholesale
躉柱	main supporting pillar
躉船	barge; pontoon; landing stage
躉賣	to sell wholesale
躊	used in 躊躇|踌躇[chou2 chu2]
躊躇	to hesitate; (literary) to pace back and forth
躊躇不前	to hesitate to move forward; to hesitate; to hold back
躊躇不決	to hesitate; indecisive
躊躇滿志	enormously proud of one's success (idiom); smug; complacent
躋	(literary) to ascend; to climb; to mount
躋身	to rise into the ranks of; to be among (the best)
躍	to jump; to leap
躍升	to leap to (a higher position etc); to jump; (of a plane) to ascend
躍居	to vault
躍層	duplex (apartment)
躍然	to show forth; to appear as a vivid image; to stand out markedly
躍然紙上	to appear vividly on paper (idiom); to show forth vividly (in writing, painting etc)
躍躍欲試	to be eager to give sth a try (idiom)
躍進	to leap forward; to make rapid progress; a leap forward
躍遷	transition; jump (e.g. quantum leap in spectroscopy)
躍馬	to gallop; to spur on a horse; to let one's steed have his head
躍龍	allosaurus
躐	step across
躑	used in 躑躅|踯躅[zhi2 zhu2]
躑躅	(literary) to pace back and forth
躒	move; walk
躓	to stumble
躔	(literary) animal tracks; the course of a celestial body
躕	used in 踟躕|踟蹰[chi2 chu2]
躗	to exaggerate; to fabricate; falsehood
躘	to walk
躙	to oppress; to overrun
躚	to manner of dancing; to walk around
躝	to pass; to step over; to creep
躞	to walk
躞蹀	to walk with a mincing gait
躠	to limp
躡	to walk on tiptoe; to walk quietly; to tread (on)
躡履	to wear shoes
躡悄悄	softly; quietly
躡手躡腳	to walk quietly on tiptoe (idiom)
躡機	silk loom with a foot peddle
躡登	to go up
躡腳	to walk cautiously in order not to make noise
躡腳跟	to walk cautiously in order not to make noise
躡著腳	to tiptoe
躡足	to walk on tiptoe; to step on sb's foot
躡跟	too large or small for the feet (of shoes)
躡跡	to follow sb's tracks; to tail
躡蹀	to walk with mincing steps
躡蹤	to follow along behind sb (formal writing)
躣	(manner of walking)
躥	to leap up; (coll.) to gush out; to spurt out
躥升	to rise rapidly; to shoot up
躥房越脊	lit. to leap the house and cross the roofridge (idiom); dashing over rooftops (of robbers and pursuing knight-errant 俠客|侠客 in fiction)
躥稀	(coll.) to have diarrhea
躥紅	to become suddenly popular
躥貨	product in great demand; hot property
躥跳	to bound forward; to bound along
躥蹦	to jump up; to leap
躥騰	to jump about wildly (coll.)
躦	to jump
躧	shoe; to step
躩	bend; leap
躪	used in 蹂躪|蹂躏[rou2 lin4]
身	body; life; oneself
身上	on the body; at hand; among
身不由己	(idiom) (of one's circumstances) beyond one's control; unable to do anything about it; (of one's actions) not subject to conscious control (i.e. done in spite of oneself)
身世	one's life experience; one's lot; one's past history
身亡	to die
身份	identity; aspect of one's identity (e.g. mayor, father, permanent resident); role; capacity (as in "in his capacity as ..." 以[yi3] + ... + 的身份[de5 shen1 fen4]); status (social, legal etc); position; rank
身份卡	identity card; ID card
身份政治	identity politics
身份盜竊	identity theft
身份證	identity card; ID
身份證明	ID card; proof of identity
身份證號碼	I.D. number
身份識別卡	identification card; ID card
身價	social status; price of a slave; price of a person (a sportsman etc)
身先士卒	to fight at the head of one's troops; (fig.) to take the lead
身先朝露	body will go with the morning dew (idiom); fig. ephemeral and precarious nature of human existence
身兼	holding two jobs simultaneously
身分證號碼	I.D. number
身在曹營心在漢	live in Cao camp but have the heart in Han camp (idiom)
身在福中不知福	to live in plenty without appreciating it (idiom); not to know when one is well off
身型	body shape
身外之物	mere worldly possessions
身姿	the way one carries oneself
身子	body; pregnancy; health
身子骨	(coll.) physique; physical constitution; health
身孕	pregnancy; pregnant
身家	oneself and one's family; family background; pedigree
身家調查	to do a background check on sb
身強力壯	strong and vigorous; sturdy; robust
身形	figure (esp. a woman's)
身影	silhouette; figure
身後	the time after one's death; a place behind sb
身後事	matters to attend to after sb's death (esp. funeral arrangements)
身心	body and mind; mental and physical
身心交病	worn out in body and soul (idiom)
身心交瘁	worn out in body and soul (idiom)
身心俱疲	physically and emotionally exhausted
身心爽快	refreshment
身心科	psychiatry
身心障礙	disability
身態	pose; figure; attitude
身懷六甲	to be pregnant (idiom)
身手	skill; talent; agility
身手敏捷	agile; nimble; deft
身才	stature; build (height and weight); figure
身披羽毛	feathered
身故	to die
身敗名裂	to lose one's standing; to have one's reputation swept away
身教	to teach by example
身教勝於言教	teaching by example beats explaining in words (idiom)
身材	stature; build (height and weight); figure
身板	body; physique; physical condition
身正不怕影子斜	(lit.) when a man stands straight, he doesn't worry that his shadow is slanting (saying)
身歷聲	(Tw) stereophonic sound
身段	a woman's physique; figure; posture on stage
身法	pose or motion of one's body in martial arts
身為	in the capacity of; as
身無分文	(idiom) penniless; completely broke
身無長技	to possess no special talents
身無長物	(idiom) to possess nothing except bare necessities; to live a frugal life
身穿	to wear (a garment)
身經百戰	lit. veteran of a hundred battles (idiom); fig. experienced; seasoned
身臨其境	(idiom) to experience it for oneself
身著	to wear
身處	in (some place)
身負重傷	seriously injured
身軀	body
身輕如燕	as lithe as a swallow (of athlete or beautiful girl)
身邊	at one's side; on hand
身量	height (of a person); stature; (fig.) reputation; standing
身長	height (of person)
身陷	to be trapped; to be imprisoned
身陷囹圄	thrown into prison; behind bars
身陷牢獄	to go to prison; to be imprisoned
身陷牢籠	fallen into a trap
身首異處	to be decapitated (idiom)
身體	the body; one's health
身體力行	to practice what one preaches (idiom)
身體是革命的本錢	lit. the body is the revolution's capital
身體質量指數	body mass index (BMI)
身高	(a person's) height
身高馬大	tall; huge
躬	(literary) body (of a human, esp. the torso); (bound form) to bow
躬履	to carry out a task personally; to take responsibility for
躬行	to personally undertake or manage
躬親	to attend to personally; in person
躬詣	to call (at sb's home) personally
躬身	to bow; personally
躲	to hide; to dodge; to avoid
躲債	to dodge a creditor
躲年	to avoid going home for the Chinese New Year (for any of various reasons: because one finds the festivities onerous in some way, or because it would be seen as inauspicious for one to attend, or, in former times, to avoid creditors, since it was the custom to have debts settled before New Year's Day, and once into the New Year, debtors got a reprieve)
躲得過初一，躲不過十五	lit. you may go undetected during the new moon, but at full moon you'll be found out (idiom)
躲懶	to shy away from work; to get by without attending duty
躲清閑	to avoid external disturbance in order to idle
躲窮	to take refuge with a rich relative
躲藏	to conceal oneself; to go into hiding; to take cover
躲讓	to step aside (for a passing vehicle); to get out of the way
躲貓貓	hide-and-seek (game); peekaboo (game)
躲躲藏藏	to be in hiding
躲躲閃閃	to evade; to dodge (out of the way)
躲避	to hide; to evade; to dodge
躲避球	dodgeball
躲閃	to evade; to dodge (out of the way)
躲開	to stay out of (hot water, trouble, awkward situation etc)
躲難	to take refuge; to seek refuge from disaster
躲雨	to take shelter from the rain
躲風	lit. to avoid the wind
躺	to recline; to lie down
躺下	to lie down
躺倒	to lie down
躺屍	(deprecatory) to lie motionless (asleep, drunk, lazing etc)
躺平	to lie stretched out
躺椅	deck chair; recliner; couch
躺槍	(neologism, attested by 2014) (coll.) to be criticized, blamed or implicated in sth despite having done nothing to deserve it; to be unfairly targeted; to catch a stray (abbr. for 躺著也中槍|躺着也中枪[tang3 zhe5 ye3 zhong4 qiang1])
躺著也中槍	(Internet slang) (lit.) to get shot even though lying down; (fig.) to be unfairly targeted
躺贏	to win without needing to even lift a finger
軀	human body
軀幹	trunk; torso
軀殼	the body (as opposed to the soul)
軀體	(human) body
軃神	frivolous youth (dialect)
車	war chariot (archaic); rook (in Chinese chess); rook (in chess)
車主	vehicle owner
車份	vehicle rental fee paid by cab and rickshaw drivers
車位	parking spot; unloading point; garage place
車到山前必有路	lit. when we get to the mountain, there'll be a way through (idiom)
車到山前必有路，船到橋頭自然直	(idiom) everything will turn out all right; let's worry about it when it happens; it will be all right on the night
車前	Chinese plantain (Plantago asiatica), perennial herb used in TCM
車厘子	(loanword) sweet cherry
車型	vehicle model (i.e. particular version of a car or motorcycle etc)
車夫	cart driver; coachman
車奴	car slave, sb forced to sacrifice quality of life to buy or maintain a car
車子	car or other vehicle (bicycle, truck etc)
車展	auto show; motor show
車工	lathe work; lathe operator
車帶	(vehicle) tire
車床	lathe
車庫	garage
車廂	carriage
車廠	(bus, train etc) depot; car factory or repair shop
車後箱	car boot, trunk
車房	garage; carport; (old) rickshaw room
車手	racing driver (in a car race); rider (in a motorcycle or bicycle race)
車技	driving skills
車把	handlebar (of a bicycle); shaft (of a rickshaw)
車把式	expert cart-driver; charioteer
車斗	open-topped container (mounted on a truck or cart) for carrying loads
車架	cart; barrow; frame
車條	spoke (of wheel)
車模	model car; auto show model
車機	(automotive) head unit; infotainment system
車檢	to inspect a vehicle
車次	train or coach service ("service" as in "they run 12 services per day between the two cities")
車水馬龍	endless stream of horse and carriages (idiom); heavy traffic
車流	traffic; rate of traffic flow
車照	vehicle license
車燈	vehicle light (headlight, turn indicator etc)
車爾尼雪夫斯基	Nikolai Chernyshevsky
車牌	vehicle license plate
車皮	wagon; freight car
車票	ticket (for a bus or train)
車禍	traffic accident; car crash
車程	travel time; expected time for a car journey
車窗	car window; window of a vehicle (bus, train etc)
車站	rail station; bus stop
車筐	bicycle basket
車管所	vehicle administration office; motor vehicle registration office (abbr. for 車輛管理所|车辆管理所[che1 liang4 guan3 li3 suo3])
車籃	bicycle basket
車籍	a vehicle's registration information (Tw)
車胎	tire
車臣	Chechnya, a republic in southwestern Russia; Chechen
車號	vehicle number (license plate number, taxi number, bus number, train car number)
車行	car-related business; car dealership; taxi company
車行通道	traffic passage
車行道	roadway; carriageway
車裂	to tear off sb's four limbs and head using five horse-drawn carts (historical form of capital punishment)
車貸	car loan (abbr. for 汽車貸款|汽车贷款[qi4 che1 dai4 kuan3])
車費	passenger fare
車貼	car allowance
車身	the body of a vehicle; (bicycle) frame
車軸	axle
車軸草	honewort; Cryptotaenia japonica
車載	carried within a vehicle; onboard
車載斗量	lit. measured in cartloads and gallons
車輛	vehicle
車輪	wheel
車輪子	wheel
車輪戰	tactic of several persons or groups taking turns to fight one opponent; tag-team attack
車輪餅	imagawayaki (sweet snack made of batter cooked in the shape of a car wheel, stuffed with azuki bean paste or other fillings)
車轅	shaft of a traditional animal-drawn vehicle (cart, carriage, wagon etc), connecting the harness to the vehicle body
車轍	wheel rut; vehicle track
車速	vehicle speed
車道	traffic lane; driveway
車里雅賓斯克	Chelyabinsk town on the eastern flanks of Ural, on trans-Siberian railway
車鈴	bicycle bell
車錢	fare; transport costs
車門	car door; door of bus, railway carriage etc
車間	workshop
車閘	brake (of a car, bicycle etc)
車隊	motorcade; convoy (CL:列[lie4]); fleet of vehicles
車險	auto insurance
車震	to have car sex
車頂	car roof
車頂架	roof rack
車頭燈	(vehicle) headlight
車頭相	photo attached to the front of a hearse in a funeral procession
車馬	vehicles and horses
車駕	the emperor's carriage; (metonym) the emperor
車龍	long queue of slow-moving traffic; tram
軋	to crush together (in a crowd); to make friends; to check (accounts)
軋場	to roll with a stone roller; to thresh grain by rolling
軋染	pad dyeing
軋染機	pressure roller used in dyeing trough
軋棉	to gin cotton (separate seeds from fiber)
軋機	steel rolling mill
軋空	(finance) to squeeze short sellers
軋花機	cotton gin
軋製	rolling steel
軋軋	(onom.) sound of machinery, e.g. squeaking
軋輥	(steelmaking) roll; roller
軋道機	road roller
軋道車	trolley for inspecting rail track
軋鋼	to roll steel (into sheets or bars)
軋鋼廠	a steel rolling mill
軋鋼條	steel rails
軋鋼機	a steel rolling mill
軋馬路	to stroll around the streets (esp. of a young couple)
軌	(bound form) rail; track; course; path
軌域	(Tw) (quantum mechanics) orbital
軌枕	sleeper; tie
軌範	standard; criterion
軌距	gauge
軌跡	locus; orbit; trajectory
軌跡球	trackball (computing)
軌道	track (for trains etc); orbit (of a satellite)
軌道交通	metro; rapid transit; subway
軌道空間站	orbital space station
軌道艙	orbital module
軍	(bound form) army; military
軍事	military affairs; (attributive) military
軍事力量	military strength; military force(s)
軍事化	militarization
軍事基地	military base
軍事威脅	military threat
軍事學	military science
軍事家	military expert; general
軍事實力	military strength; military power
軍事工業	defense industry
軍事情報	military intelligence
軍事援助	military aid
軍事政變	military coup
軍事機構	military institution
軍事法庭	court-martial; military tribunal
軍事演習	military exercise; war game
軍事科學	military science
軍事行動	military operation
軍事訓練	military exercise; army drill
軍事設施	military installations
軍事部門	military branch
軍事體育	military sports; military fitness (curriculum etc); abbr. to 軍體|军体
軍人	serviceman; soldier; military personnel
軍令如山	military orders are like mountains (idiom)
軍令狀	military order
軍備	(military) arms; armaments
軍備競賽	arms race; armament(s) race
軍公教	army, civil service and education; all branches of state employment
軍刀	military knife; saber
軍分區	military subdistricts
軍力	military power
軍功	(military) meritorious service
軍功章	military medal
軍務	military affairs
軍勢	army strength; military prowess or potential
軍區	geographical area of command; (PLA) military district
軍品	product for military use
軍售	arms sales
軍國主義	militarism
軍團	corps; legion
軍團桿菌	legionella bacteria
軍團菌	legionella (bacterium causing legionnaires' disease)
軍團菌病	legionnaires' disease
軍士	soldier; noncommssioned officer (NCO)
軍妓	military prostitute
軍委	Military Commission of the Communist Party Central Committee
軍委會	Military Commission of the Communist Party Central Committee
軍嫂	wife of a serviceman; soldier's wife
軍官	officer (military)
軍屬	military family member; dependent of a servicemember
軍工	defense industry (abbr. for 軍事工業|军事工业[jun1 shi4 gong1 ye4])
軍工複合體	military-industrial complex
軍師	(old) military counselor; (coll.) trusted adviser
軍心	(military) troop morale; (fig.) team morale
軍情	military situation; military intelligence
軍情五處	MI5 (British military counterintelligence office)
軍情六處	MI6 (British military intelligence agency)
軍政	army and government
軍政府	military government
軍方	military
軍旅	army
軍曹魚	cobia or black kingfish (Rachycentron canadum)
軍校	military school; military academy
軍棋	land battle chess, Chinese board game similar to Stratego
軍樂	military music
軍樂團	military band
軍樂隊	military band
軍機	military aircraft; secret plan; Privy Council during the Qing dynasty
軍機處	Office of Military and Political Affairs (Qing Dynasty)
軍歌	military song
軍民	army-civilian; military-masses; military-civilian
軍法	martial law
軍港	naval port; naval base
軍演	military exercises
軍火	weapons and ammunition; munitions; arms
軍火交易	arms deal
軍火公司	arms company
軍火庫	arsenal
軍營	barracks; army camp
軍犬	military dog
軍用	(for) military use; military application
軍糧	army provisions
軍綠	army green
軍艦	warship; military naval vessel
軍號	bugle
軍裝	military uniform
軍訓	to do military training
軍警	the military and the police
軍費	military expenditure
軍費開支	military spending
軍車	military vehicle
軍迷	military enthusiast
軍醫	military doctor
軍醫院	military hospital
軍銜	army rank; military rank
軍閥	military clique; junta; warlord
軍閥混戰	incessant fighting between warlords
軍陣	battle formation
軍隊	armed forces; troops
軍需	military supplies
軍需官	quartermaster
軍餉	a soldier's pay and provisions
軍馬	warhorse; cavalry horse; troops
軍體	military sports; military fitness (curriculum etc)
軍齡	length of military service
軏	crossbar for yoking horses
軒	pavilion with a view; high; tall
軒冕	(literary) curtained carriage and ceremonial cap (symbols of a senior official); (fig.) dignitaries
軒尼詩	Hennessy (cognac)
軒掖	forbidden place
軒昂	high; lofty; elevated
軒檻	railings of a balcony
軒然大波	huge waves; (fig.) ruckus; controversy
軒軒自得	to be delighted with oneself
軒轅	Xuan Yuan, personal name of Huangdi, the Yellow Emperor 黃帝|黄帝[Huang2 di4]
軒轅十四	Regulus (constellation)
軒轅氏	alternative name for the Yellow Emperor 黃帝|黄帝
軔	brake
軖	spinning wheel; wheelbarrow
軘	war chariot
軚	(Cantonese) steering wheel; (Cantonese) tire (car, bicycle)
軛	yoke
軜	inner reins of a 4-horse team
軝	end of axle
軟	soft; flexible
軟件	software
軟件企業	software company
軟件包	software package
軟件即服務	software as a service (SaaS)
軟件平臺	software platform
軟件技術	software technology
軟件系統	software system
軟件開發	software development
軟刀子	(lit.) the soft knife; (fig.) underhanded tactics
軟包	soft (bread) roll
軟化	to soften
軟口蓋	soft palate; velum
軟呢	soft, pliable wool fabric
軟和	(coll.) pleasantly soft; comfy; (of words) gentle
軟妹幣	(Internet slang) Renminbi (pun on 人民幣|人民币[ren2 min2 bi4])
軟實力	soft power (in international relations)
軟尺	soft measuring tape (non-retractable type used for body measurements etc)
軟席	soft seat (= first class in PRC trains)
軟座	soft seat (on trains or boats)
軟弱	weak; feeble; flabby
軟文	advertorial
軟木	cork
軟木塞	a cork
軟木磚	cork tile; cork flooring
軟柿子	(coll.) pushover; soft touch
軟梯	rope ladder
軟毛	fur
軟水	soft water (cf. 硬水[ying4 shui3], hard water)
軟泥	soft mud; silt; sludge
軟流圈	(geology) asthenosphere
軟流層	(geology) asthenosphere
軟焊	to solder
軟爛	(of food etc) soft; pulpy
軟片	(photographic) film
軟玉	nephrite; Ca(Mg,Fe)3(SiO3)4
軟甲綱	Malacostraca, a large class of crustaceans
軟盤	floppy disk
軟硬不吃	unmoved by force or persuasion
軟硬件	software and hardware
軟硬兼施	use both carrot and stick; use gentle methods and force
軟碟	floppy disk
軟磁盤	floppy disk
軟磁碟	floppy disk
軟磨硬泡	to coax and pester (idiom); to wheedle; to cajole
軟禁	to place under house arrest
軟管	hose; flexible tube
軟糖	soft candy (gummi candy, gumdrop, jellybean etc)
軟糯	soft and chewy (mouthfeel); (of a voice) tender; coaxing; clinging
軟組織	soft tissue
軟綿綿	soft; velvety; flabby
軟耳朵	credulous person; credulous
軟肋	(anatomy) costal cartilage; (fig.) weak spot; weak link; vulnerability
軟脂酸	palmitic acid (chemistry)
軟腳蝦	weakling; coward
軟腳蟹	same as 軟腳蝦|软脚虾[ruan3 jiao3 xia1]
軟膏	ointment; paste
軟臥	soft sleeper (a type of sleeper train ticket class with a softer bunk)
軟著陸	(aviation) soft landing; (economics) soft landing
軟足類	(coll.) inkfish; octopus, squid and cuttlefish
軟釘子	lit. a soft nail; fig. a tactful retort or rejection
軟飯男	kept man
軟飲	soft drink
軟飲料	soft drink
軟骨	cartilage
軟骨病	chondropathy (medicine)
軟骨頭	weak, cowardly person; spineless individual
軟骨魚	cartilaginous fish (such as sharks and rays)
軟骨魚類	cartilaginous fishes
軟體	(of an animal) soft-bodied; (Tw) software
軟體動物	mollusk
軟體業	the software industry
軟齦音	velar sound (linguistics)
軟齶	soft palate
軟齶音	(linguistics) velar consonant
軤	surname Hu
軥	ends of yoke
軨	lattice work on front and sides
軫	square; strongly (as of emotion)
軫方	square; four-square
軭	to spoil (Cant.); to ruin; to warp (car wheel)
軱	big bone
軲	used in 軲轆|轱辘[gu1 lu5]
軲轆	(coll.) wheel; to turn; to roll
軷	sacrifice
軸	used in 壓軸|压轴[ya1 zhou4]; Taiwan pr. [zhou2]
軸向	axis; axial
軸對稱	(geometry) axial symmetry
軸心	axle; (fig.) central element; key element
軸心國	Axis powers (World War II)
軸承	(mechanical) bearing
軸承銷	pin bearing
軸旋轉	to rotate about an axis; axis of rotation (math.)
軸率	axial ratio
軸突	axon
軸突運輸	axonal transport
軸索	axon (long thin axis of nerve cell)
軸絲	axoneme (long thread of nerve cell)
軸線	central axis (line)
軸距	wheelbase
軹	end of axle outside of hub
軺	light carriage
軻	used in 轗軻|𫐘轲[kan3 ke3]
軼	(bound form) (of a book, author etc) lost (to the ages) (variant of 佚[yi4])
軼事遺聞	anecdote (about historical person); lost or apocryphal story
軼聞	anecdote; apocryphal story
軾	(literary) handrail at the front of a carriage or chariot; to bow while leaning on this handrail as a gesture of respect
軿	curtained carriage used by women; to gather together; to assemble
輀	hearse
輂	horse carriage (old)
輂輦	emperor's carriage
較	(bound form) to compare; (literary) to dispute; compared to
較勁	to match one's strength with; to compete; more competitive
較場	military drill ground; same as 校場|校场[jiao4 chang3]
較大	comparatively large
較好	better
較差	range (the difference between the lowest and highest values)
較比	comparatively (colloquial); fairly; quite
較為	comparatively; relatively; fairly
較然	clearly; evidently; markedly
較略	approximately; roughly; about
較真	serious; meticulous; nitpicky; to take sth (or sb) seriously
較短絜長	to compare long and short; to compare the pros and cons
較著	obvious; prominent; standing out
較量	to pit oneself against sb; to compete with sb; contest
較長絜短	to compare long and short; to compare the pros and cons
輅	(archaic) large carriage, esp. a conveyance for a monarch
輇	limited (of talent or ability); (archaic) solid wheel (without spokes)
輈	(literary) shaft (of a cart); cart
載	to record in writing; to carry (i.e. publish in a newspaper etc)
載人	to carry a passenger; (of spaceships etc) manned; also pr. [zai3 ren2]
載伯德	Zebedee (name)
載入	to load into; to record; to write into
載入史冊	to be recorded in history; to go down in history
載具	conveyance (car, boat, aircraft etc); vehicle
載客	to carry passengers
載客車	passenger vehicle
載客量	passenger capacity
載彈量	payload
載攜	to carry; to bear
載明	to state explicitly in writing; to specify; to stipulate
載歌且舞	singing and dancing (idiom); festive celebrations
載歌載舞	singing and dancing (idiom); festive celebrations
載波	carrier wave
載湉	birth name of Qing emperor Guangxu 光緒|光绪[Guang1 xu4]
載漪	Zai Yi (1856-1922), Manchu imperial prince and politician, disgraced after supporting the Boxers
載玻片	microscope slide
載籍	books (in Confucian education)
載舟覆舟	to carry a boat or to overturn a boat (idiom); fig. The people can support a regime or overturn it.
載荷	load
載貨	freight; load
載貨汽車	truck
載車	onboard (equipment); to ferry cars; missile trucks
載途	to cover the road (snow, wind, hazards etc)
載運	to convey (on vehicle); to freight
載道	to fill the road (also fig. clamor, cries of complaint)
載酒問字	a scholarly and inquisitive individual (idiom)
載重	load; carrying capacity
載重能力	weight-carrying capacity
載重量	dead weight; weight capacity of a vehicle
載頻	frequency of carrier wave
載體	carrier (chemistry); vector (epidemiology); vehicle or medium
輊	back and lower of chariot; short; low
輒	then; at once; always
輓	to draw (a cart); to lament the dead
輓聯	pair of parallel verses inscribed on streamers, used as funeral decoration
輓詩	elegy
輔	to assist; to complement; auxiliary
輔仁大學	Fu Jen Catholic University of Peking (from 1925), forerunner of Beijing Normal University 北京師範大學|北京师范大学
輔以	supplemented by; accompanied by; with
輔佐	to assist (usually a ruler)
輔修	(education) to minor in; minor
輔具	assistive device (walking frame, hearing aid etc)
輔助	to assist; to aid; supplementary; auxiliary
輔助語	auxiliary language
輔助醫療	complementary medicine
輔大	abbr. for 輔仁大學|辅仁大学[Fu3 ren2 Da4 xue2]
輔導	to guide; to mentor; to counsel; to coach; to tutor
輔導人	tutor
輔導員	student counselor (in Chinese universities)
輔導班	tutorial class; remedial class; preparatory course
輔導金	grant (Tw)
輔幣	fractional currency (coin or note of value smaller than the country's unit of currency)
輔弼	to assist a ruler in governing a country; prime minister
輔料	auxiliary ingredients; supplementary materials
輔系	(Tw) (university education) minor
輔課	subsidiary course
輔警	auxiliary police officer
輔酶	coenzyme (chemistry)
輔音	consonant
輔食	complementary food (for an infant)
輕	light; easy; gentle
輕佻	frivolous; coquettish
輕侮	(literary) to treat with disrespect
輕便	lightweight and portable; light and convenient
輕信	to easily trust; gullible; naïve
輕傷	lightly wounded; minor injuries
輕元素	light element (such as hydrogen)
輕功	(Chinese martial arts) the art of agile movement such as leaping, wall-running or gliding through the air (exaggerated in wuxia stories)
輕取	to beat easily; to gain an easy victory
輕口薄舌	(idiom) hasty and rude; caustic and sharp-tongued
輕咬	to nibble
輕嘴薄舌	lit. light mouth, thin tongue (idiom); hasty and rude
輕型	light (machinery, aircraft etc)
輕型軌道交通	light rail; transit system (underground, at street level or elevated)
輕子	lepton (particle physics)
輕工	light engineering
輕工業	light industry
輕巧	dexterous; deft; easy
輕度	mild (symptoms etc)
輕微	slight; light; trivial
輕快	light and quick; brisk; spry
輕慢	irreverent
輕手輕腳	(idiom) (to move or do sth) softly; quietly; gently
輕打	to tap; to hit lightly
輕捷	light on one's feet; nimble; agile
輕描淡寫	(idiom) to treat sth as no big deal; to downplay; to understate
輕撫	to stroke lightly; to caress
輕擊區	putting green (golf)
輕擊棒	putter (golf)
輕擊球	to hit the ball lightly (sport); putt (golf)
輕敵	to underestimate the enemy
輕於鴻毛	light as a goose feather (idiom); trifling; unimportant
輕易	easy; simple; rashly; offhandedly
輕染	tinge
輕柔	soft; gentle; pliable
輕機槍	light machine gun
輕機關槍	also written 輕機槍|轻机枪; light machine gun
輕武器	light weapon
輕水	light water (as opposed to heavy water)
輕水反應堆	light water reactor (LWR)
輕浪浮薄	(idiom) frivolous
輕浮	frivolous; careless; giddy
輕狂	frivolous
輕率	cavalier; offhand; reckless
輕生	to commit suicide; to take one's own life
輕盈	graceful; lithe; light and graceful
輕省	relaxed; easy
輕看	to look down upon
輕窕	frivolous; capricious; playful
輕紗	light muslin; gauze
輕罪	petty crime; misdemeanor
輕者	less serious case; in less severe cases
輕而易舉	easy; with no difficulty
輕聲	in a quiet voice; softly; (linguistics) neutral tone
輕聲細語	to speak softly; to whisper (idiom)
輕脆	sharp and clear; crisp; melodious
輕舉妄動	to act blindly without thinking (idiom)
輕蔑	scornful; disdainful; contemptuous; pejorative; disdain; contempt
輕薄	light (weight); frivolous; a philanderer
輕裘肥馬	lit. light furs and stout horses; fig. to live in luxury
輕視	contempt; contemptuous; to despise
輕言	to say, without careful consideration
輕言細語	to speak softly
輕質石油	light petroleum (product); gasoline and diesel oil
輕質石油產品	light petroleum product (i.e. gasoline and diesel oil)
輕車熟路	lit. to drive a lightweight chariot on a familiar road (idiom)
輕車簡從	(of an official) to travel with little luggage and just a small escort
輕軌	light rail; transit system (underground, at street level or elevated); streetcar; metro (abbr. for 輕型軌道交通|轻型轨道交通[qing1 xing2 gui3 dao4 jiao1 tong1])
輕輕	lightly; softly
輕重	severity (of the case); degree of seriousness
輕重主次	to invert the importance of things (i.e. stress the incidental and neglect the main point)
輕重倒置	to invert the importance of things (i.e. stress the unimportant and neglect the important)
輕重緩急	slight or important, urgent or non-urgent (idiom); to deal with important matters first
輕量	lightweight
輕量級	lightweight (boxing etc)
輕鐵	Hong Kong LRT (Light Rail Transit) (abbr. for 輕便鐵路|轻便铁路)
輕靈	quick and skillful; agile
輕音樂	light music
輕風	breeze; light wind
輕飄飄	light as a feather
輕食	light meal; snack
輕饒	to forgive easily
輕饒素放	easily forgive, simply release (idiom); to let sb off scot free
輕騎	light cavalry; light motorcycle; moped
輕鬆	light; gentle; relaxed
輗	clamps for crossbar of carriage
輛	classifier for vehicles
輜	covered wagon; military supply wagon
輜重	(military) supplies (munitions, rations, clothing etc)
輝	(bound form) radiance; brilliance; to shine
輝南縣	Huinan, a county in Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
輝映	to reflect; to shine
輝格黨	Whig Party
輝煌	splendid; glorious
輝瑞	Pfizer, American pharmaceutical company
輝石	pyroxene (family of rock-forming minerals); augite
輝綠岩	diabase (geology); dolerite
輝縣市	Huixian, a county-level city in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
輝長岩	gabbro (geology)
輞	tire; wheel band
輟	to stop (before completion); to cease; to suspend
輟學	to drop out of school; to leave off studying
輟工	to stop work
輟朝	to suspend business at the imperial court on account of a misfortune
輟業	to give up work; to give up one's profession
輟止	to stop; to leave off
輟演	to stop performing a play; to interrupt a stage run
輟筆	to stop writing or painting; to leave off writing midway
輟耕	to stop plowing; to give up a life in the fields
輟食吐哺	to stop eating and spit out
輠	grease-pot under a cart
輣	war chariot (archaic)
輤	a pall to cover the hearse
輥	roller
輦	(archaic) man-drawn carriage; an imperial carriage
輦下	imperial capital (city)
輦路	road along which the emperor's carriage passes
輦運	(literary) to transport; to ship
輩	lifetime; generation; group of people
輩兒	generation
輩出	to come forth in large numbers
輩分	seniority in the family or clan; position in the family hierarchy
輩子	all one's life; lifetime
輪	wheel; disk; ring; steamship; to take turns; to rotate
輪任	rotating appointment (e.g. presidency of EU)
輪休	to take holidays in rotation; to stagger employees' days off
輪作	rotation of crops (to preserve fertility of soil)
輪候	to wait one's turn
輪值	to take turns on duty
輪到	to be (sb's or sth's) turn
輪台古城	ruins of Luntai city, archaeological site in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州, Xinjiang
輪台縣	Luntai, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
輪唱	round (music); canon
輪回	(neologism) (slang) to respond to a message after a very long delay (pun on 輪迴|轮回[lun2 hui2], the cycle of rebirth) (opposite of 秒回[miao3 hui2])
輪姦	to gang rape
輪子	wheel; (derog.) Falun Gong practitioner
輪崗	to rotate jobs within an organization
輪廓	outline; silhouette
輪廓線	outline; silhouette
輪廓鮮明	sharp image; clear-cut; in bold outline
輪指	circular finger movement (in playing plucked instrument); strumming
輪換	to rotate; to take turns
輪暴	to gang rape
輪替	to take turns; to follow a rotating schedule
輪椅	wheelchair
輪機	turbine (abbr. for 渦輪機|涡轮机[wo1 lun2 ji1]); engine (of a ship)
輪機手	helmsman
輪次	in turn; by turns; lap
輪流	to alternate; to take turns
輪渡	ferry
輪滑	roller skating
輪牧	rotation grazing
輪狀病毒	rotavirus
輪班	shift working
輪番	in turn; one after another
輪盤	roulette; wheel
輪盤賭	roulette
輪種	rotation of crops
輪空	(sports) bye; to get a bye
輪箍	tire
輪緣	rim; edge of wheel
輪胎	tire; pneumatic tire
輪船	steamship; steamer; steamboat
輪訓	training in rotation
輪詢	(computing) to poll
輪距	tread (the distance between the two front – or two rear – wheels of a vehicle)
輪軸	wheel and axle (mechanism); axle
輪輻	wheel spoke
輪轂	hub of a wheel; the whole metal part of a wheel; "rim"
輪轂罩	hubcap
輪轉	to rotate
輪轉機	merry-go-round
輪迴	(Buddhism) samsara; cycle of rebirth
輪齒	tooth of cog wheel; gear tooth
輫	carriage (archaic)
輮	wheel band
輯	to gather up; to collect; to edit
輯睦	tranquil; harmonious
輯錄	to compile; to collect
輯集	to anthologize
輳	to converge; hub of wheel
輴	hearse
輵	great array of spears and chariots
輶	light carriage; trifling
輸	to lose; to be beaten; (bound form) to transport
輸不起	to take defeat with bad grace; to be a sore loser
輸入	to import; to input
輸入法	input method
輸入系統	input system; data entry system
輸入設備	input device (computer)
輸出	to output; to deliver (energy, data, signals etc)
輸出品	export item; product for export
輸出管	vas efferens
輸卵管	Fallopian tube; oviduct
輸墨裝置	ink supply mechanism
輸家	loser (as opposed to winner 贏家|赢家[ying2 jia1])
輸尿管	ureter
輸得起	can afford to lose; to take defeat with good grace
輸掉	to lose
輸水管	pipe; pipeline
輸沙量	quantity of sand (transported by a river); sediment content
輸油管	petroleum pipeline
輸注	to inject; infusion
輸液	intravenous infusion; to get put on an IV
輸球	(ball sports) to lose a match
輸理	to be in the wrong
輸移	(sediment) transport
輸精管	vas deferens
輸給	to lose to (sb); to be outdone by
輸血	to transfuse blood; to give aid and support
輸贏	win or loss; outcome
輸送	to transport; to convey; to deliver
輸送媒介	transport medium
輸送帶	conveyor belt
輸運	to transport; transportation
輸電	electricity transmission; to transmit electricity
輹	parts of cart holding the axle
輻	spoke of a wheel
輻射	to radiate; radiation
輻射偵察	radiation detection
輻射儀	radiation meter
輻射分解	radiolysis
輻射劑量	radiation dose
輻射劑量率	radiation dose rate
輻射場	radiation field
輻射對稱	radial symmetry
輻射強度	radiation intensity
輻射敏感性	radiosensitivity
輻射散射	radiation scattering
輻射波	radiation (wave); radiated wave
輻射源	radiation source
輻射能	radiation energy (e.g. solar)
輻射計	radiometer
輻射警告標志	radiation warning symbol
輻射防護	radiation protection
輻條	(wheel) spoke
輻照	irradiation
輾	used in 輾轉|辗转[zhan3 zhuan3]
輾轉	to toss about in bed; from person to person; indirectly
輾轉反側	to toss and turn restlessly (in the bed)
輿	(literary) chassis of a carriage (contrasted with the canopy 堪[kan1])
輿地	land; map; (old) geography
輿情	public sentiment
輿論	public opinion
輿論界	media; commentators
輿論調查	opinion poll
轀	hearse
轀車	hearse
轀輬	(sleeping) carriage; hearse
轂	used in 轂轆|毂辘[gu1 lu5]
轂蓋	hubcap
轄	linchpin (used to fasten a wheel to an axle)
轄制	to control
轄區	administrative region
轅	shaft of a cart or carriage
轆	used in 轆轆|辘辘[lu4 lu4]; used in 軲轆|轱辘[gu1 lu5] and 轂轆|毂辘[gu1 lu5]
轆轆	(onom.) rumbling noise (produced by wheels rolling, one's stomach etc)
轆轤	well pulley; windlass; potter's wheel
轇	used in 轇轕|𫐖𮝺[jiao1 ge2]; Taiwan pr. [jiu1]
轇轕	(literary) to intertwine; to become entangled
轉	to turn; to change direction; to transfer
轉一趟	to go on a trip
轉世	reincarnation or transmigration (Buddhism)
轉乘	to transfer; to change trains, buses etc
轉交	to pass on to sb; to carry and give to sb else
轉介	to refer sb to an agency (or hospital etc); referral
轉位	transposition; displacement; inversion
轉作	(agriculture) to switch to growing a different crop
轉來轉去	to rove around; to run around in circles; to walk back and forth
轉側	to change one's viewpoint; to turn from side to side (in bed)
轉入	to change over to; to shift to; to switch to
轉入地下	to go underground; to turn to secret activities
轉劇	becoming acute; to exacerbate
轉動	to rotate (about an axis); to revolve; to turn
轉動件	rotor
轉動慣量	moment of inertia (mechanics)
轉動軸	axis of rotation (mechanics); spindle
轉包	to subcontract (to another party)
轉化	to change; to turn; to convert; (genetics) to transform
轉化糖	inverted sugar
轉危為安	to turn peril into safety (idiom); to avert a danger (esp. political or medical)
轉去	to return; to go back
轉口	entrepot; transit (of goods); (coll.) to deny
轉台	rotating stage; swivel table
轉向	to change direction; fig. to change one's stance
轉向信號	turn signal (auto.); turning indicator
轉向燈	vehicle turn indicator light
轉向盤	steering wheel
轉告	to pass on; to communicate; to transmit
轉喻	metonymy
轉回	to turn back; to put back; reversal
轉圈	to rotate; to twirl; to run around
轉圜	to save or redeem (a situation); to mediate; to intercede
轉圜餘地	to have room to save a situation; margin for error (idiom)
轉型	to undergo fundamental change; to transition; to transform
轉基因	genetic modification
轉基因食品	genetically modified (GM) food
轉塔	rotating turret
轉天	the following day; next day
轉好	improvement; turnaround (for the better)
轉嫁	to remarry (of widow)
轉子	(electricity) rotor
轉字鎖	combination lock
轉存	to transfer (one's savings, data etc) elsewhere for storage
轉學	(of a student) to change schools; to transfer from one school to another
轉學生	transfer student
轉寄	to forward (a letter, email, package etc)
轉寫	to transliterate; to transcribe
轉導	to transduce
轉差	to slip (e.g. of clutch); slippage
轉差率	slippage rate
轉帆	to tack (of sailing ship); to jibe; to go about
轉年	the following year; next year
轉幹	to become a cadre (e.g. a promotion from shopfloor)
轉引	to quote from secondary source
轉彎	to turn; to go around a corner
轉往	to change (to final stretch of journey)
轉徙	to migrate; to move house
轉念	to have second thoughts about sth; to think better of
轉性	to change one's character or nature
轉悠	to roll; to wander around; to appear repeatedly
轉悲為喜	to turn grief into happiness (idiom)
轉戰	to fight in one place after another
轉戰千里	fighting everywhere over a thousand miles (idiom); constant fighting across the country
轉手	to pass on; to resell; to change hands
轉托	to pass on a task; to delegate one's work; to pass the buck
轉折	shift in the trend of events; turnaround; plot shift in a book
轉折點	turning point; breaking point
轉捩	to turn
轉捩點	turning point
轉授	to delegate
轉接	(telephony etc) to switch; to connect; to transfer
轉接班機	connecting flight
轉換	to change; to switch; to convert
轉換器	converter; transducer
轉換斷層	transform fault (geology)
轉播	relay; broadcast (on radio or TV)
轉敗為勝	to turn defeat into victory (idiom); snatching victory from the jaws of defeat
轉文	to parade by interspersing one's speech or writing with literary allusions
轉會	to transfer to another club (professional sports)
轉會費	transfer fee; signing bonus; sign-on bonus
轉校	to transfer (school)
轉椅	swivel chair; children's roundabout
轉業	to change one's profession; to transfer to civilian work
轉機	(to take) a turn for the better; to change planes
轉正	to transfer to full membership; to obtain tenure
轉步	to turn around
轉歸	(of ownership, custody etc) to be transferred to; to revert to
轉氨基酶	amino transferase (enzyme)
轉氨酶	transferase (enzyme)
轉法輪	to transmit Buddhist teaching; chakram or chakka (throwing disk)
轉注	transfer character (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters)
轉注字	transfer character (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters)
轉爐	converter (rotary furnace in steelmaking)
轉生	reincarnation (Buddhism)
轉產	to change production; to move over to new products
轉用	to adapt for use for another purpose
轉發	to transmit; to forward (mail, SMS, packets of data); to pass on
轉盤	turntable; rotary (traffic)
轉眼	in a flash; in the blink of an eye; to glance
轉眼之間	(idiom) in the wink of an eye; in a flash
轉眼即逝	to pass in an instant; over in the twinkling of an eye
轉眼間	in the blink of an eye
轉瞬	in the twinkling of an eye; in a flash; to turn one's eyes
轉瞬即逝	(idiom) fleeting; transitory
轉矩	torque
轉矩臂	torque arm
轉碼	(computing) transcoding; to convert (from one encoding to another)
轉磨	rotary grindstone
轉科	to change major (at college); to take up a new specialist subject
轉租	to sublet; to sublease
轉移	to shift; to relocate; to transfer
轉移安置	to relocate; to evacuate
轉移支付	transfer payment (payment from government or private sector for which no good or service is required in return)
轉移視線	to shift one's eyes; (fig.) to shift one's attention
轉移陣地	to move one's base (of operations); to reposition; to relocate
轉筆刀	pencil sharpener
轉筋	muscle cramp
轉紐	organ stop (button activating a row of pipes)
轉給	to pass on to
轉置	to transpose
轉義	(linguistics) transferred meaning; (computing) to escape
轉義字符	(computing) escape character
轉義序列	(computing) escape sequence
轉而	to turn to (sth else); to switch to
轉職	to change job or profession
轉背	to turn one's back; to turn around; fig. change in a very short time
轉腰子	(coll.) to pace around nervously; to speak indirectly
轉臉	to turn one's head; in no time; in the twinkling of an eye
轉船	to transfer ships
轉蛋	toy in a capsule (dispensed from a vending machine)
轉行	to change profession
轉製	to convert; to reprocess; to turn (sth) into
轉角	bend in a street; corner; to turn a corner
轉診	to transfer (a patient for treatment in a different hospital)
轉調	(music) to change key; modulation
轉譯	to translate (to another language); to convert
轉變	to change; to transform; shift
轉變立場	to change positions; to shift one's ground
轉讓	to transfer (ownership, rights etc)
轉賣	to resell
轉賬	to transfer (money to a bank account)
轉賬卡	debit card
轉贈	to pass on a present
轉身	(of a person) to turn round; to face about
轉車	to transfer; to change trains, buses etc
轉車台	a turntable
轉軌	to change track
轉軸	axis of rotation
轉載	to forward (a shipment); to reprint sth published elsewhere
轉輪	rotating disk; wheel; rotor
轉輪手槍	revolver (handgun)
轉輪王	Chakravarti raja (Sanskrit: King of Kings); emperor in Hindu mythology
轉輪聖帝	chakravarti raja (emperor in Hindu mythology)
轉輪聖王	Chakravarti raja (Sanskrit: King of Kings); emperor in Hindu mythology
轉轉	to go for a stroll
轉述	to pass on (stories); to relate
轉送	to pass (sth) on (to sb else)
轉速	angular velocity; number of revolutions per minute
轉速錶	tachometer; RPM gauge
轉運	to forward; to transfer; to transship
轉運棧	storage depot on a transportation route
轉運站	distribution depot; staging post; transit center
轉道	to make a detour; to go by way of
轉達	to pass on; to convey; to communicate
轉遞	to pass on; to relay
轉鈴	bicycle bell (with a rotating internal mechanism)
轉錄	transcription; to make a copy of a recording
轉鐘	past midnight
轉門	revolving door; turnstile
轉關係	to transfer (from one unit to another)
轉院	to transfer (a patient) to a different hospital
轉面無情	to turn one's face against sb and show no mercy (idiom); to turn against a friend
轉韻	change of rhyme (within a poem)
轉頭	to turn one's head; to change direction; U-turn
轉體	to roll over; to turn over (one's body)
轉鼓	rotary drum
轍	rut; track of a wheel (Taiwan pr. [che4])
轎	sedan chair; palanquin; litter
轎夫	porter for a palanquin
轎子	sedan chair; palanquin; litter
轎廂	elevator car; cable car cabin; gondola (on a Ferris wheel)
轎車	(old) enclosed carriage for carrying passengers; (automotive) sedan
轏	chariot for sleeping and conveyance
轑	spokes
轒	war chariot
轔	rumbling of wheels
轕	used in 轇轕|𫐖𮝺[jiao1 ge2]
轖	leather top of a cart
轗	used in 轗軻|𫐘轲[kan3 ke3]
轗軻	(literary) variant of 坎坷[kan3 ke3]
轘	to tear between chariots (as punishment)
轙	rings on the yokes
轞	vehicle for transporting prisoners
轟	explosion; bang; boom
轟動	to cause a sensation; to create a stir in (a place); commotion
轟動一時	to cause a sensation (idiom)
轟動效應	sensational effect; wild reaction
轟擊	bombard
轟炸	to bomb; to bombard
轟炸機	bomber (aircraft)
轟然	loudly; with a loud bang; a loud rumble
轟走	to drive away
轟趕	to drive away
轟趴	(loanword) party (social gathering)
轟趴館	party venue (available for hire)
轟轟	booming; roaring
轟轟烈烈	strong; vigorous; large-scale
轟隆	(onom.) rumbling; rolling
轟響	loud sound, such as that of thunder or a bomb; to rumble; to roar
轟鳴	boom (sound of explosion); rumble
轡	bridle; reins
轡頭	bridle
轢	to bully; wheel-rut
轤	used in 轆轤|辘轳[lu4 lu5]
辛	(of taste) hot or pungent; hard; laborious
辛丑	thirty-eighth year H2 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1961 or 2021
辛丑條約	Boxer Protocol of 1901 signed in Beijing, ending the Eight-power Allied Force intervention after the Boxer uprising
辛亥	forty-eighth year H12 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1971 or 2031
辛亥革命	Xinhai Revolution (1911), which ended the Qing Dynasty
辛伐他汀	simvastatin
辛勞	laborious
辛勤	hardworking; industrious
辛勤耕耘	to devote oneself tirelessly to one's work; to labor diligently over many years
辛卯	twenty-eighth year H4 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2011 or 2071
辛奇	(loanword) kimchi
辛巳	eighteenth year H6 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 2001 or 2061
辛巴威	Zimbabwe (Tw)
辛布	Thimphu, capital of Bhutan (Tw)
辛普森	Simpson (name)
辛普森一家	The Simpsons (US TV series)
辛未	eight year H8 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1991 or 2051
辛格	(name) Singh
辛烷	octane (C8H18)
辛烷值	octane rating
辛苦	exhausting; hard; tough
辛貝特	Shin Bet (Israel national security service)
辛辛苦苦	painstakingly; with great trouble
辛辛那提	Cincinnati, Ohio
辛辣	spicy hot (taste); fig. biting (criticism)
辛迪加	(loanword) syndicate
辛酉	fifty-eighth year H10 of the 60 year cycle, e.g. 1981 or 2041
辛酸	pungent (taste); bitter; fig. sad
辛集市	Xinji, a county-level city in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
辜	(bound form) crime; sin; (literary) to abandon; to betray
辜振甫	Koo Chen-fu (1917-2005), Taiwanese businessman and diplomat
辜負	to fail to live up to (sb's expectations, trust or kindness); to let down
辜鴻銘	Ku Hung-ming or Gu Hongming (1857–1928), Malaysian writer known for his English-language works and defense of Qing dynasty monarchy
辟	(literary) king; monarch
辟穀	(Taoism) to abstain from eating cereals; to fast; also pr. [pi4gu3]
辟邪	to ward off evil spirits
辟雍	central of the five Zhou dynasty royal academies
辟雍硯	ink slab or ink stone of celadon or white porcelain with unglazed surface
辣	hot (spicy); pungent; (of chili pepper, raw onions etc) to sting
辣哈布	(Catholicism) Rahab, mother of Boaz
辣妹	hot chick; sexy girl; abbr. LM
辣妹子	sassy young woman or pretty girl (esp. one from China's spice belt: Guizhou, Hunan, Jiangxi, Sichuan and Yunnan)
辣媽	(coll.) hot mom
辣子	cayenne pepper; chili
辣子雞	laziji, spicy dish of chicken cubes stir-fried with chili peppers
辣彼	(loanword) rabbi
辣根	horseradish
辣條	latiao, spicy gluten strip (Chinese snack); (slang) snake
辣椒	hot pepper; chili
辣椒仔	Tabasco (brand)
辣椒素	capsaicin
辣椒醬	red pepper paste; chili sauce
辣汁	hot sauce; chili sauce
辣白菜	spicy pickled cabbage; kimchi
辣眼睛	(neologism c. 2016) (slang) unpleasant to look at; hard on the eyes
辣豆醬	chili con carne
辣醬油	Worcestershire sauce
辣雞	spicy chicken; (Internet slang) garbage (pun on 垃圾[la1 ji1])
辦	to take care of (a matter); to deal with (a task, procedure etc); to organize (an event)
辦不到	cannot be done; not feasible; impossible to accomplish
辦事	to handle (affairs); to work
辦事處	office; agency; bureau
辦公	to handle official business (usu. in an office); to do (office) work
辦公地址	business address; office address
辦公大樓	office building
辦公室	office; business premises
辦公廳	general office
辦公時間	office hours
辦公桌	office desk
辦公樓	office building
辦公自動化	office automation
辦到	to accomplish; to get (sth) done
辦報	to run a newspaper; to publish a newspaper
辦好	to take care of (a matter); to get (a task) done; to handle (a project) expeditiously
辦妥	to arrange; to settle; to complete
辦學	to run a school
辦年貨	to shop in preparation for Chinese New Year
辦案	to handle a (criminal) case
辦桌	(Tw) to hold a banquet; to provide catering; catering
辦法	way of handling sth; means; measure; (practical) solution to a problem
辦理	to handle; to transact; to conduct
辦罪	(formal) to prosecute or punish sb for a crime; to hold sb legally accountable
辦證	to apply for a certificate, permit, license or ID
辦貨	to purchase goods (for a company etc)
辦酒席	to prepare a feast
辨	to distinguish; to recognize
辨別	to distinguish; to differentiate; to discern; to recognize; to tell
辨別力	discrimination; power of discrimination
辨士	(loanword) pence; penny
辨明	to clarify; to distinguish; to elucidate
辨析	to differentiate and analyze; to discriminate
辨認	to recognize; to identify
辨證	to investigate
辨證施治	diagnosis and treatment based on an overall analysis of the illness and the patient's condition
辨證論治	holistic diagnosis and treatment (TCM)
辨識	identification; to identify; to recognize
辨識度	distinctiveness; identifiability; recognizability
辭	to resign; to dismiss; to decline
辭世	(literary) to pass away; to die; to depart from this world
辭令	polite speech; diplomatic language; rhetoric
辭任	to resign (a position)
辭別	to bid farewell (to); to say goodbye (to)
辭去	to resign; to quit
辭呈	(written) resignation
辭官	to resign a government post
辭工	to resign from a job
辭掉	to quit (one's job); to dismiss (an employee)
辭書	dictionary; encyclopedia
辭書學	lexicography
辭格	figure of speech
辭海	Cihai, encyclopedic dictionary of Chinese first published in 1936
辭章	poetry and prose; rhetoric
辭職	to resign
辭藻	rhetoric
辭行	to say goodbye; leave-taking; farewells
辭謝	to decline gratefully
辭退	to dismiss; to discharge; to fire
辮	a braid or queue; to plait
辮子	plait; braid; pigtail
辯	to dispute; to debate; to argue
辯士	eloquent person; person with rhetoric skills
辯手	debater; debate team member
辯才	eloquence
辯才天	Saraswati (the Hindu goddess of wisdom and arts and consort of Lord Brahma)
辯方	(law) the defense
辯明	to explain clearly; to elucidate
辯機	Bianji (c. 620-648), Tang dynasty buddhist monk and disciple of 玄奘[Xuan2 zang4], author and translator of Great Tang Records on the Western Regions 大唐西域記|大唐西域记[Da4 Tang2 Xi1 yu4 Ji4]
辯爭	to argue; to dispute
辯白	to offer an explanation; to plead innocence; to try to defend oneself
辯稱	to argue (that); to allege; to dispute
辯答	a reply (in debate)
辯解	to explain; to justify; to defend (a point of view etc)
辯詞	an excuse
辯誣	to debate; to refute
辯說	to debate; to argue
辯論	debate; argument; to argue over
辯證	to investigate; dialectical
辯證唯物主義	dialectical materialism
辯證法	dialectics; dialectic or Socratic method of debate
辯護	to speak in defense of; to argue in favor of; to defend
辯護人	defender; defending counsel
辯護士	defender; apologist
辯辭	an excuse
辯難	to debate; to retort; to refute
辯駁	to dispute; to refute
辰	5th earthly branch: 7-9 a.m., 3rd solar month (5th April-4th May), year of the Dragon
辰光	sunlight; (Wu dialect) time of the day; moment
辰星	Mercury in traditional Chinese astronomy
辰時	7-9 am (in the system of two-hour subdivisions used in former times)
辰溪縣	Chenxi, a county in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
辰砂	cinnabar
辰龍	Year 5, year of the Dragon (e.g. 2000)
辱	disgrace; dishonor; to insult
辱罵	to insult; to revile; abuse
辱華	to insult China (by criticizing its policies or boycotting its goods)
農	(bound form) agriculture
農事	farming task
農事活動	agricultural activities
農人	farmer
農作	farming; crops
農作物	(farm) crops
農具	farm implements; farm tools
農區	agricultural areas; farming areas
農友	our peasant friends (political term used in the early years of the Old Democratic Revolution, 1840-1919)
農園	plantation
農地	farmland
農場	farm
農夫	peasant; farmer
農夫山泉	Nongfu Spring, Chinese bottled water and beverage company
農奴	serf
農奴解放日	Serf Liberation Day (PRC)
農婦	peasant woman (in former times); female farm worker
農學	agricultural science
農安縣	Nong'an, a county in Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
農家	School of Agriculture, school of thought of the Warring States Period (475-221 BC)
農家庭院	farmyard
農家樂	a property providing rural accommodation (farm stay, boutique hotel etc)
農家肥	manure
農工	agricultural worker; abbr. for 農業工人|农业工人
農德孟	Nong Duc Manh (1940-), general secretary of the Vietnamese Communist Party 2001-2011
農忙	(agriculture) busy season; peak farming season
農戶	farmer; farmer household
農房	farm house
農旅	agritourism
農曆	the traditional Chinese calendar; the lunar calendar
農曆新年	Chinese New Year; Lunar New Year
農會	farmer's cooperative; abbr. for 農民協會|农民协会
農村	rural area; village
農村合作化	collectivization of agriculture (in Marxist theory)
農村家庭聯產承包責任制	rural household contract responsibility system, PRC government policy linking rural income to productivity
農林	agriculture and forestry
農林水產省	Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (Japan)
農桑	(literary) farming and sericulture; agricultural production
農業	agriculture; farming
農業區	agricultural region
農業合作化	collectivization of agriculture (in Marxist theory)
農業國	agricultural country
農業廳	(provincial) department of agriculture
農業機械	agricultural machinery
農業現代化	modernization of agriculture, one of Deng Xiaoping's Four Modernizations
農業生技	(Tw) agricultural biotechnology; agritech
農業生產合作社	agricultural producers' cooperative
農業部	Ministry of Agriculture; Department of Agriculture
農業集體化	collectivization of agriculture (under communism)
農機	agricultural machinery
農殘	pesticide residue (abbr. for 農藥殘留|农药残留[nong2 yao4 can2 liu2])
農民	peasant; farmer
農民工	migrant worker (who moved from a rural area of China to a city to find work)
農民起義	peasant uprising; peasant revolt
農民階級	peasant class (esp. in Marxist theory); peasantry
農民黨	Peasant Party (Republic of China)
農活	farm work
農產	agriculture products; farm produce
農產品	agricultural produce
農田	farmland; cultivated land
農耕	farming; agriculture
農膜	agricultural film (plastic sheeting used as a mulch or to cover greenhouses and polytunnels)
農舍	farmhouse
農莊	farm; ranch
農藝	agronomy
農藥	agricultural chemical; farm chemical; pesticide
農諺	farmers' saying
農貸	(government) loan to agriculture
農貿市場	wet market
農資	agricultural inputs; farm supplies
農運	peasant movement (abbr. for 農民運動|农民运动[nong2 min2 yun4 dong4])
農運會	China National Farmers' Games (sports meeting for peasants held every 4 years since 1988)
農閒	the agricultural off-season; the farming slack season
辵	to walk (side part of split character)
辶	to walk (side part of split character)
辿	used in names, e.g. 龍王辿|龙王辿[Long2 wang2 Chan1] Longwang Chan, a place in Shaanxi Province
迂	literal-minded; pedantic; doctrinaire
迂儒	unrealistic; pedantic and impractical
迂回奔襲	to attack from an unexpected direction
迂回曲折	meandering and circuitous (idiom); complicated developments that never get anywhere
迂執	pedantic and stubborn
迂夫子	pedant; old fogey
迂拘	conventional; conservative
迂拙	stupid; impractical
迂曲	circuitous; tortuous; roundabout
迂氣	pedantry
迂滯	high-sounding and impractical
迂磨	sluggish; delaying
迂緩	dilatory; slow in movement; roundabout
迂腐	pedantic; trite; inflexible
迂見	absurd opinion; pedantic and unrealistic view
迂訥	overcautious; conservative and dull in conversation
迂論	unrealistic argument; high flown and impractical opinion
迂迴	roundabout route; circuitous; tortuous
迂遠	impractical
迂闊	high sounding and impractical; high flown nonsense
迄	as yet; until
迄今	so far; to date; until now
迄今為止	so far; up to now; still (not)
迅	rapid; fast
迅即	immediately; promptly; quickly
迅捷	fast and nimble
迅猛	quick and violent
迅疾	rapid; swift
迅速	rapid; speedy; fast
迅雷	thunderbolt
迋	to deceive; to scare; to travel
迍	used in 迍邅[zhun1 zhan1]
迍邅	(literary) making no progress
迎	to welcome; to meet
迎佛骨	to ceremonially receive a bone relic of the Buddha
迎來	to welcome (a visitor or newcomer); (fig.) to usher in
迎來送往	lit. to meet those arriving, to send of those departing (idiom); busy entertaining guests
迎刃而解	lit. (bamboo) splits when it meets the knife's edge (idiom)
迎合	to cater to; to pander to
迎娶	(of a groom) to fetch one's bride from her parents' home to escort her to the wedding ceremony
迎客松	Greeting Pine, symbol of Huangshan 黃山|黄山[Huang2 shan1]
迎戰	to meet the enemy head-on
迎接	to welcome; to greet
迎接挑戰	to meet a challenge
迎擊	to face an attack; to repulse the enemy
迎敵	to go out from one's position to confront the enemy
迎新	to see in the New Year; to welcome new guests
迎春花	winter jasmine (Jasminum nudiflorum)
迎江區	Yingjiang, a district of Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
迎澤區	Yingze, a district of Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
迎火	backfire (firefighting)
迎神賽會	folk festival, esp. involving shrine or image of God
迎親	(of the groom's family) to send a bridal sedan chair 花轎|花轿 to fetch the bride
迎賓	to welcome a guest; to entertain a customer (of prostitute)
迎難而上	(idiom) to press on in the face of challenges
迎面	directly; head-on (collision); (of wind) in one's face
迎面而來	directly; head-on (collision); in one's face (of wind)
迎頭	to meet head-on; face-to-face; directly
迎頭打擊	to hit head on
迎頭痛擊	to deliver a frontal assault; to meet head-on (idiom)
迎頭趕上	to try hard to catch up
迎風	in the wind; facing the wind; downwind
迎風招展	to flutter in the wind (idiom)
迎風飄舞	to flutter in the wind
近	near; close to; approximately
近乎	close to; intimate
近乎同步	plesiochronous
近人	contemporary; modern person; close friend
近代	the not-very-distant past; modern times, excluding recent decades
近代史	modern history (in Chinese historiography, from the Opium Wars to the fall of the Qing dynasty)
近似	to approximate; to be similar
近似解	approximate solution
近來	recently; lately
近便	nearby and therefore convenient
近光燈	low beam (headlights)
近前	to come close; to get near to; front
近古	near ancient history (often taken to mean Song, Yuan, Ming and Qing times)
近因	immediate cause; proximate cause
近在咫尺	(idiom) very close; almost within reach; close at hand
近在眼前	right under one's nose; right in front of one's eyes; close at hand; imminent
近地天體	near-Earth object (NEO)
近地軌道	low Earth orbit (LEO)
近地點	apsis; perigee
近場通信	(computing) near-field communication (NFC)
近場通訊	(Tw) (computing) near-field communication (NFC)
近年	recent year(s)
近年來	for the past few years
近幾年	in recent years
近打	Kinta valley and river in Perak, Malaysia
近打河	Kinta River in Perak, Malaysia
近拱點	(astronomy) periapsis
近日	(in) the past few days; recently; (within) the next few days
近日點	perihelion, the nearest point of a planet in elliptic orbit to the sun
近景	scene in the foreground; nearby scenery; (photography) a close shot
近景魔術	close-up magic; micromagic
近期	near in time; in the near future; very soon
近朱者赤，近墨者黑	those who handle cinnabar are stained red; those who work with ink are stained black (idiom)
近朱近墨	one is judged by the company one keeps (idiom)
近東	Near East
近水樓臺	lit. a pavilion near the water (idiom); fig. using one's proximity to the powerful to obtain favor
近水樓臺先得月	the pavilion closest to the water enjoys moonlight first (idiom)
近況	recent developments; current circumstances
近海	coastal waters; offshore
近照	recent photo
近現代史	modern history and contemporary history
近畿地方	the Kinki region of Japan, aka the Kansai region, with cities including Kyoto, Osaka and Kobe
近端	(anatomy) proximal
近端胞漿	proximal cytoplasm
近義詞	near-synonym
近臣	member of a monarch's inner ministerial circle (old)
近藤	Kondō (Japanese surname)
近處	nearby
近衛文麿	Prince KONOE Fumimaro (1891-), Japanese nobleman and militarist politician, prime minister 1937-1939 and 1940-1941
近視	myopic; nearsighted; (fig.) shortsighted
近視眼	nearsightedness; myopia
近親	close relative
近親交配	inbreeding
近親繁殖	inbreeding
近距離	close range
近距離無線通訊	(computing) near-field communication (NFC)
近路	shortcut
近道	shortcut; a quicker method
近郊	suburbs; outskirts
近郊區	suburbs; city outskirts
近鄰	close neighbor
近零	close to zero
近頃	recently; of late
近體詩	a genre of poetry, developed in the Tang Dynasty, characterized by its strict form
迓	to receive (as a guest)
返	to return (to)
返利	dealer incentive; sales bonus; rebate
返券黃牛	"shopping coupon scalper", sb who sells unwanted or returned shopping coupons to others for a profit
返回	to return to; to come (or go) back
返國	to return to one's country
返場	to do an encore
返家	to return home
返崗	to resume one's former position (after being laid off)
返工	to do poorly done work over again; (Guangdong dialect) to go to work
返校	to return to school
返港	to return to Hong Kong
返潮	(of clothing, furniture, walls etc) to get damp (by absorbing moisture from the air or the ground)
返現	(neologism c. 2009) to give a cashback reward to a consumer
返璞歸真	to return to one's true self; to regain the natural state
返祖	(biology) to exhibit atavism; to revert to ancestral traits
返祖現象	(biology) atavism
返程	return trip; to make a return trip; to return
返老還童	to recover one's youthful vigor; to feel rejuvenated (idiom)
返聘	to rehire retired personnel
返臺	to return to Taiwan
返航	to return to the point of departure
返貧	to fall back into poverty
返還	restitution; return of something to its original owner; remittance
返鄉	to return to one's home town
返銷糧	grain bought by the state and resold to areas undergoing a grain shortage
返青	(of plants) to turn green again; to revegetate
返點	sales bonus; affiliate reward; rebate
迕	obstinate, perverse
迢	remote
迣	to leap over
迤	used in 逶迤[wei1 yi2]
迤邐	meandering; winding
迥	distant
迥然	vastly (different)
迥然不同	widely different; utterly different
迥異	totally different
迦	(phonetic sound for Buddhist terms)
迦南	Canaan (in Biblical Palestine)
迦太基	Carthage
迦持	the laws of the Buddhism
迦納	Ghana (Tw)
迦葉佛	Buddha Kassapa (Pāli) or Kāśyapa (Skt) (one of the Buddhas of the past)
迨	until; while
迪	to enlighten
迪倫	(name) Dylan
迪克	Dick (person name)
迪化	Dihua or Tihwa (old name of Ürümqi 烏魯木齊|乌鲁木齐[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2])
迪吉里杜管	(loanword) didgeridoo
迪吧	disco (coll.); diva (loanword)
迪士尼	Disney, American entertainment conglomerate
迪士尼樂園	Disneyland
迪奧	Dior (brand name)
迪廳	disco; night club; abbr. for 迪斯科廳|迪斯科厅
迪慶藏族自治州	Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
迪戈·加西亞島	Diego Garcia tropical island and US military base in the Indian Ocean, main island of Chago archipelago 查戈斯群島|查戈斯群岛[Cha2 ge1 si1 Qun2 dao3]
迪拜	Dubai
迪斯可	disco (loanword) (Tw)
迪斯尼樂園	Disneyland; also written 迪士尼樂園|迪士尼乐园[Di2 shi4 ni2 Le4 yuan2]
迪斯科	(loanword) disco
迪斯科吧	discotheque
迪斯科廳	disco hall; nightclub
迪斯雷利	Benjamin Disraeli (1804-1881), British conservative politician and novelist, prime minister 1868-1880
迪莊	Dijon (French town)
迫	to force; to compel; to approach or go towards
迫不及待	(idiom) unable to hold oneself back; eager to do sth without delay
迫不得已	to have no alternative (idiom); compelled by circumstances
迫令	to order; to force
迫使	to force; to compel
迫供	to extort a confession; Taiwan pr. [po4 gong1]
迫促	to urge; urgent; pressing
迫切	urgent; pressing
迫切性	urgency
迫在眉睫	pressing in on one's eyelashes (idiom); imminent
迫害	to persecute
迫擊炮	mortar (weapon); Taiwan pr. [po4 ji2 pao4]
迫於	constrained; restricted; forced to
迫真	(literary) lifelike; realistic; vivid
迫脅	to coerce; fig. narrow
迫臨	to approach; to press in
迫視	to stare at; to watch intently
迫近	to approach; to press in
迫降	to force a plane to land
迭	alternately; repeatedly
迭代	to iterate; (literary) to alternate
迭起	continuously arising; to arise repeatedly
迭部縣	Têwo, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
迮	haste; to press
迮徑	narrow path
述	(bound form) to state; to tell; to narrate; to relate
述職	to report on one's work or duties (to a supervisor)
述語	predicate
述說	to recount; to narrate; to give an account of
迴	to curve; to return; to revolve
迴力鏢	boomerang
迴圈	(Tw) (computing) loop
迴廊	winding corridor; cloister
迴旋	to circle; to wheel; to go around
迴旋加速器	(physics) cyclotron
迴旋處	traffic circle; rotary; roundabout
迴旋鏢	boomerang
迴旋餘地	room to maneuver; leeway; latitude
迴盪	to resound; to reverberate; to echo
迴紋針	paper clip
迴轉	to revolve; to rotate; to turn around; to turn back
迴轉壽司	conveyor belt sushi (restaurant)
迴避	to shun; to avoid (sb); to skirt
迴響	to echo; to reverberate; to respond
迶	to walk
迷	to bewilder; crazy about; fan
迷上	to become fascinated with; to become obsessed with
迷不知返	to go astray and to not know how to get back on the right path (idiom)
迷亂	confusion
迷人	fascinating; enchanting; charming
迷住	to fascinate; to strongly attract; to obsess
迷你	(loanword) mini-; miniature; very small
迷你劇	miniseries
迷你裙	miniskirt
迷信	superstition; to have a superstitious belief (in sth)
迷因	(loanword) meme
迷夢	pipedream; unrealizable plan
迷失	to get lost; to lose one's bearings
迷妹	(slang) fangirl
迷姦	to drug and then rape sb
迷宮	maze; labyrinth
迷幻	psychedelic; hallucinatory
迷幻劑	a psychedelic; hallucinogen
迷幻藥	hallucinogen; psychedelic drug
迷幻蘑菇	psilocybin mushroom; magic mushroom
迷弟	(slang) fanboy
迷彩	camouflage
迷彩服	camouflage clothing
迷思	(loanword) myth
迷惑	to puzzle; to confuse; to baffle
迷惑不解	to feel puzzled
迷惑龍	apatosaurus; former name: brontosaurus; also called 雷龍|雷龙[lei2 long2]
迷惘	perplexed; at a loss
迷戀	to be infatuated with; to be enchanted by; to be passionate about
迷暈	to knock sb out with a drug; to render sb unconscious
迷津	a maze; to lose the way; bewildering
迷漫	vast haze; lost in boundless mists
迷濛	misty
迷瞪	puzzled; bewildered; infatuated
迷笛	Beijing Midi School of Music, est. 1993 (abbr. for 北京迷笛音樂學校|北京迷笛音乐学校[Bei3 jing1 Mi2 di2 Yin1 yue4 Xue2 xiao4])
迷糊	muddle-headed; dazed; only half conscious
迷航	(of a ship, aircraft or migratory bird) to lose its way
迷茫	vast and indistinct; perplexed; bewildered
迷藥	knockout drops; incapacitating agent; Mickey Finn
迷誤	mistake; error; to mislead; to lead astray
迷走神經	vagus nerve
迷路	to lose the way; lost; labyrinth
迷蹤羅漢拳	Mizongyi, Mizong, My Jhong Law Horn - "Lost Track Fist" (Chinese Martial Art)
迷迭香	rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis)
迷迷糊糊	in a daze; bewildered
迷途	to lose one's way
迷途知返	to get back on the right path; to mend one's ways
迷醉	bewitched; intoxicated by sth
迷陣	maze
迷離	blurred; hard to make out distinctly
迷離惝恍	(idiom) blurred; confusing
迷離馬虎	muddle-headed
迷霧	dense fog; fig. completely misleading
迷魂	to bewitch; to enchant; to cast a spell over sb
迷魂湯	potion given to souls before they are reincarnated, which makes them forget their previous life (aka 孟婆湯|孟婆汤[meng4 po2 tang1])
迷魂藥	magic potion; (fig.) bewitching words or actions; knockout drug
迷魂陣	stratagem to trap sb; to bewitch and trap
迷魂香	a kind of sleeping gas or smoke used by thieves to incapacitate victims
迷鳥	vagrant bird (a migrating bird which has lost its way); a vagrant
迸	to burst forth; to spurt; to crack
迸流	to gush; to spurt
迸發	to burst forth
迸裂	to split; to crack; to burst (open)
迻	to shift; to transfer
追	to sculpt; to carve; musical instrument (old)
追上	to overtake
追亡逐北	to pursue and attack a fleeing enemy
追債	to demand repayment of a debt; to collect a debt
追償	to recover compensation already paid from the liable party
追光	(theater) spotlight
追光燈	(theater) spotlight; followspot
追剿	to pursue and eliminate; to suppress
追劇	to watch a TV series etc regularly; to binge-watch
追加	to add something extra; an additional increment; addendum
追加劑	(Tw) (vaccine) booster dose; booster shot
追名逐利	(idiom) to seek fame and wealth
追問	to question closely; to investigate in detail; to examine minutely
追回	to recover (sth lost or stolen); to get back
追夢	to chase a dream; to pursue one's dreams
追客	avid fan who anxiously awaits new content
追封	to confer a posthumous title
追尊	posthumous honorific name
追尋	to pursue; to track down; to search
追尋現代中國	"The Search for Modern China" (1990) by Jonathan D. Spence 史景遷|史景迁[Shi3 Jing3 qian1]
追尾	to tailgate; to hit the car in front as a result of tailgating
追念	to recollect
追思	memorial; recollection (of the deceased)
追思會	memorial service; memorial meeting
追悔	to repent; remorse
追悔莫及	too late for regrets (idiom); It is useless to repent after the event.
追悼	to mourn; to pay last respects
追悼文	eulogy
追悼會	memorial service; funeral service
追想	to recall
追憶	to recollect; to recall (past times); to look back
追懷	to recall; to bring to mind; to reminisce
追打	to chase and beat
追捕	to pursue; to be after; to hunt down
追捧	to exhibit great enthusiasm for sb or sth; to embrace
追授	to posthumously award
追擊	to pursue and attack
追敘	to recount what happened prior to events already known
追新	to seek out the new (e.g. the latest tech products)
追星	to idolize a celebrity
追星族	passionate fan (of a celebrity); stan
追本溯源	to trace sth back to its origin
追查	to try to find out; to trace; to track down
追根	to trace sth back to its source; to get to the bottom of sth
追根問底	lit. to examine roots and inquire at the base (idiom); to get to the bottom of sth
追根求源	to track sth to its roots
追根溯源	to pursue sth back to its origins; to trace back to the source
追根究底	to get to the heart of the matter
追殲	to pursue and kill; to wipe out
追殺	to chase to kill
追比	to flog; to cane (as punishment)
追求	to pursue (a goal etc) stubbornly; to seek after; to woo
追溯	lit. to go upstream; to trace sth back to; to date from
追究	to investigate; to look into
追索	to demand payment; to extort; to trace
追緝	to pursue; to be after
追繳	to recover (stolen property)
追肥	top soil dressing; additional fertilizer
追薦	to pray for the soul of a deceased
追補	a supplement; additional budget
追討	to demand payment of money owing
追記	to award posthumously; to write down afterwards; retrospective account
追訴	to prosecute; given leave to sue
追訴時效	(law) period during which one can prosecute or sue sb (as stipulated by a statute of limitations)
追詢	to interrogate; to question closely
追認	to recognize sth after the event; posthumous recognition; to ratify
追諡	to grant a posthumous honorary title or name
追責	to hold accountable
追購	to purchase in addition (an extra item)
追贈	to give to the departed; to confer (a title) posthumously
追贓	to order the return of stolen goods
追趕	to pursue; to chase after; to accelerate
追蹤	to track; to trace; to follow up; (HK, Tw) to follow (on social media)
追蹤報導	follow-up report
追蹤號碼	tracking number (of a package shipment)
追蹤調查	follow-up study; investigative follow-up
追躡	to follow the trail of; to track; to trace
追述	recollections; to relate (past events)
追逐	to chase; to pursue vigorously
追逐賽	pursuit race; chase
追逼	to pursue closely; to press; to demand (payment)
追還	to recover (lost property or money); to win back
追隨	to follow; to accompany
追隨者	follower; adherent; following
追風逐電	proceeding at a tremendous pace; getting on like a house on fire
追龍	(slang) to inhale the vapor from heroin heated on a piece of aluminum foil; to chase the dragon
迿	to be the first to begin a quarrel
退	to retreat; to withdraw; to reject; to return (sth); to decline
退下	to step down; to retire; to withdraw from one's role
退件	to reject (visa application etc); (commerce) to return to sender
退任	to retire; to leave one's position
退伍	to be discharged from military service
退伍軍人	veteran
退伍軍人節	Veterans' Day
退休	to retire (from the workforce); to go into retirement
退休金	retirement pension; pension payments received after retirement
退位	to abdicate
退保	to lapse (or terminate) an insurance
退冰	to thaw (frozen food); to bring to room temperature
退出	to withdraw; to abort; to quit
退出運行	to decommission
退化	to degenerate; atrophy
退卻	to retreat; to shrink back
退回	to return (an item); to send back; to go back
退坡	(intransitive) to weaken; to decrease; (of a subsidy etc) to be rolled back
退場	to leave a place where some event is taking place
退婚	to break off an engagement
退學	to quit school
退守	to retreat and defend; to withdraw and maintain one's guard
退居二線	to withdraw to the second line of duty
退市	to be delisted (of a listed stock); to exit the market
退席	to absent oneself from a meeting; to decline to attend
退庭	to retire from the courtroom; to adjourn
退役	(of military personnel or athletes) to retire
退後	to stand back; to go back (in time); to yield
退思園	Retreat and Reflection Garden in Tongli, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
退房	to check out of a hotel room
退換	to exchange (a purchased item)
退換貨	to return a product for another item
退散	to retreat and scatter; to recede; to wane
退格鍵	backspace (keyboard)
退款	to refund; refund
退步	to do less well than before; to make a concession; setback
退水	to divert water; to drain
退潮	(of a tide) to ebb or go out
退火	annealing (metallurgy)
退熱	to reduce a fever
退燒	to reduce a fever
退燒藥	antipyretic (drug to reduce fever, such as sulfanilamide)
退片	to eject (media player)
退票	to bounce (a check); to return a ticket; ticket refund
退租	to stop leasing
退稅	tax rebate or refund
退網	(of a public figure, streamer, influencer etc) to quit social media
退縮	to shrink back; to cower
退繳	to make restitution
退群	to withdraw from a group
退而求其次	to settle for second best; the next best thing
退耕還林	restoring agricultural land to forest
退色	also pr. [tui4 shai3]
退落	to subside
退行	to recede; to degenerate; to regress
退行性	degenerative; retrograde
退訂	to cancel (a booking); to unsubscribe (from a newsletter etc)
退讓	to move aside; to get out of the way; to back down
退貨	to return merchandise; to withdraw a product
退賽	to withdraw from a competition
退路	a way out; a way to retreat; leeway
退選	to withdraw from an election; to drop out of an elective course
退避	to withdraw
退避三舍	(lit.) to retreat ninety li (idiom)
退還	to return (sth borrowed etc); to send back; to refund; to rebate
退錢	to refund money
退關	shut-out, container or consigment not carried on the intended vessel or aircraft
退院	to leave the hospital; (old) (of a monk) to leave the monastery
退隱	to withdraw from the fray and live in seclusion; to retire
退黨	to withdraw from a political party
送	to send; to deliver; to transmit; to give (as a present)
送中	to extradite to mainland China
送交	to hand over; to deliver
送人	to give away; to accompany; to see sb off
送信	to send word; to deliver a letter
送別	to see sb off; to bid farewell (to sb)
送去	to send to; to deliver to; to give sb a lift (e.g. in a car)
送命	to lose one's life; to get killed
送客	to see a visitor out
送服	to wash the medicine down
送死	to throw away one's life
送殯	to attend a funeral; to take part in a funeral procession
送氣	aspiration (phonetics, explosion of breath on consonants distinguishing Chinese p, t from b, d)
送灶	seeing off the kitchen god 灶神[Zao4 shen2] (traditional rite)
送禮	to give a present
送禮會	shower (for bride, baby etc)
送秋波	to cast flirtatious glances at sb (idiom)
送終	to attend upon a dying parent or other senior family member; to handle the funeral affairs of a senior family member
送給	to send; to give as a present
送股	a share grant
送舊迎新	usher out the old, greet the new; esp. to see in the New Year
送葬	to participate in funeral procession; to attend a burial
送行	to see someone off; to throw someone a send-off party
送診	to take sb for medical consultation; to refer sb for diagnosis
送貨	to deliver goods
送貨到家	home delivery
送走	to see off; to send off
送返	to send back
送達	to deliver; to serve notice (law)
送還	to return; to give back; to send back
送醫	to take sb to the hospital
送養	to place out for adoption
送餐	home delivery of meal
逃	to escape; to run away; to flee
逃不出	unable to escape; can't get out
逃之夭夭	to escape without trace (idiom); to make one's getaway (from the scene of a crime)
逃亡	to flee; to go into exile
逃亡者	runaway
逃債	to dodge a creditor
逃兵	army deserter
逃北者	North Korean refugee
逃命	to escape; to flee; to run for one's life
逃單	to dine and dash; (by extension) to avoid paying a bill
逃奔	to run away to; to flee
逃婚	to flee to avoid an arranged marriage
逃學	to play truant; to cut classes
逃席	to leave a banquet (without taking one's leave)
逃廢	to evade (repayment of debts)
逃往	to run away; to go into exile
逃港	to flee to Hong Kong
逃漏	to evade (paying tax); (tax) evasion
逃災避難	to seek refuge from calamities
逃犯	escaped criminal; fugitive from the law
逃獄	to escape (from prison); to jump bail
逃生	to flee for one's life
逃票	to sneak in without a ticket; to stow away
逃稅	to evade a tax
逃稅天堂	tax haven
逃竄	to run away; to flee in disarray
逃竄無蹤	to disperse and flee, leaving no trace
逃脫	to run away; to escape
逃荒	to escape from a famine; to get away from a famine-stricken region
逃課	to skip class
逃走	to escape; to flee; to run away
逃跑	to flee from sth; to run away; to escape
逃逸	to escape; to run away; to abscond
逃逸速度	escape velocity
逃遁	to escape; to disappear
逃過一劫	(idiom) to survive a calamity; to get through a crisis
逃避	to escape; to evade; to avoid
逃避責任	to evade responsibility; to shirk
逃離	to run out; to escape
逃難	to run away from trouble; to flee from calamity; to be a refugee
逄	surname Pang
逅	used in 邂逅[xie4 hou4]
逆	contrary; opposite; backwards
逆來順受	to resign oneself to adversity (idiom); to grin and bear it
逆倫	unnatural relationship (parricide, incest etc); unfilial conduct
逆光	backlighting; light coming from behind the subject (esp. in photography)
逆勢	to go against the trend
逆反	rebellious behavior; opposite; ob-
逆反心理	reverse psychology
逆反應	reverse reaction; counterreaction; inverse response
逆向	backwards; reverse direction
逆向工程	reverse engineering
逆商	(psychology) adversity quotient (abbr. for 逆境商數|逆境商数[ni4 jing4 shang1 shu4])
逆喻	oxymoron
逆回音	inverted turn (ornament in music)
逆境	adversity; predicament
逆天	(literary) to be in defiance of the natural order
逆夷	invaders (insulting term); foreign aggressors
逆子	unfilial son
逆定理	converse theorem (math.)
逆差	adverse trade balance; trade deficit
逆序	inverse order
逆心	unfavorable; undesired
逆戟鯨	orca; killer whale (Orcinus orca)
逆料	to foresee; to predict
逆斜	(geology) anaclinal
逆斷層	reverse fault (geology)
逆旅	guest-house; inn
逆映射	inverse map (math.)
逆時針	anticlockwise; counterclockwise
逆水	against the current; upstream
逆水行舟	lit. navigating a boat against the current (idiom)
逆水行舟，不進則退	like rowing a boat upstream, if you stop moving forward you fall back (idiom)
逆流	against the stream; adverse current; a countercurrent
逆流溯源	to go back to the source
逆流而上	to sail against the current; (fig.) to go against the flow
逆滲透	reverse osmosis
逆火	(of an engine) to backfire
逆生長	to seem to grow younger; to regain one's youthful looks
逆產	traitor's property; breech delivery
逆耳	unpleasant to hear; grates on the ear (of home truths)
逆耳之言	speech that grates on the ear (idiom); bitter truths
逆臣	rebellious minister
逆行	to go the wrong way; to go against one-way traffic regulation
逆行倒施	to go against the tide (idiom); to do things all wrong
逆襲	to counterattack; to strike back
逆變	reversing (e.g. electric current)
逆變器	(electronics) inverter
逆賊	renegade; traitor and bandit
逆轉	to turn back; to reverse
逆轉錄病毒	reverse transcription virus; retrovirus
逆轉錄酶	reverse transcriptase
逆運	bad luck; unlucky fate
逆運算	inverse operation; inverse calculation
逆風	to go against the wind; contrary wind; a headwind
逆鱗	(Chinese legend) a patch of scales on a dragon's neck that grow in the opposite direction, which when touched enrages the dragon
逆齡	anti-aging
逋	to flee; to abscond; to owe
逋逃藪	(literary) refuge and hiding place for fugitives
逌	distant; joyous; satisfied
逍	used in 逍遙|逍遥[xiao1 yao2]
逍遙	free and unfettered
逍遙法外	unfettered and beyond the law (idiom); evading retribution
逍遙自在	free and at leisure (idiom); unfettered
逍遙自得	doing as one pleases (idiom); foot-loose and fancy free
透	(bound form) to penetrate; to seep through; to tell secretly; to leak
透亮	bright; shining; translucent
透信	to disclose information; to tip off
透光	transparent; translucent
透天厝	(Tw) row house; townhouse; terrace house
透射	to transmit; transmission (of radiation through a medium); passage
透平	(loanword) turbine
透平機	turbine
透底	to disclose inside information; to divulge secret details
透徹	penetrating; thorough; incisive
透抽	swordtip squid (Tw)
透支	(banking) to overdraw; to take out an overdraft; an overdraft
透明	transparent; (fig.) transparent; open to scrutiny
透明度	transparency; (policy of) openness
透明硬紗	organza (fabric)
透明程度	transparency
透明膠	Scotch tape
透明質酸	hyaluronic acid; hyaluronan
透析	to analyze in depth
透析機	dialysis machine
透氣	to flow freely (of air); to ventilate; to breathe (of fabric etc)
透水	permeable; percolation; water leak
透水性	permeability
透漏	to divulge; to leak; to reveal
透紅	rosy
透視	(drawing and painting) perspective
透視圖	perspective drawing
透視學	perspective (in drawing)
透視法	perspective (in drawing)
透視畫	perspective drawing
透視畫法	perspective drawing
透視裝	see-through clothing
透通性	transparency (networking)
透過	to pass through; to penetrate; by means of
透鏡	lens (optics)
透闢	penetrating; incisive
透露	to leak out; to divulge; to reveal
透頂	out-and-out; thoroughly
透風	to let air pass through; to ventilate
逐	(bound form) to pursue; to chase; to drive away
逐一	one by one
逐個	one by one; one after another
逐出	to expel; to evict; to drive out
逐夢	to chase a dream; to pursue one's dreams
逐字逐句	literal; word for word; word by word and phrase by phrase
逐客令	the First Emperor's order to expel foreigners; (fig.) notice to leave
逐年	year after year; with each passing year; over the years
逐日	day-by-day; daily; on a daily basis
逐月	month-by-month; monthly; on a monthly basis
逐次	gradually; one after another; little by little
逐步	progressively; step by step
逐水	to relieve oedema through purging or diuresis (Chinese medicine)
逐漸	gradually
逐行	line by line
逐行掃描	progressive scanning
逐走	to turn away; to drive away
逐退	to drive back (attackers)
逐鹿	to pursue deer; fig. to vie for supremacy
逐鹿中原	lit. hunting deer in the Central Plain (idiom)
逑	collect; to match
途	way; route; road
途中	en route
途人	passer-by; stranger
途徑	way; means; channel
途經	to pass through; via; by way of
逕	footpath; path; track; (fig.) a way; a means (variant of 徑|径[jing4])
逕向	radial
逕庭	very different
逕流	runoff
逕直	straight; direct
逕自	on one's own; without consulting others
逕賽	track
逕跡	track
逖	(literary) remote; far away
逗	to tease (playfully); to entice; (coll.) to joke
逗人	amusing; funny; entertaining
逗人喜愛	cute
逗人發笑	to make people laugh
逗哈哈	to joke; to crack a joke
逗哏	funny man (lead role in comic dialogue 對口相聲|对口相声[dui4 kou3 xiang4 sheng1])
逗嘴	to banter
逗弄	to tease; to provoke; to play with (a child, animal etc)
逗引	to make fun of
逗悶子	(dialect) to joke
逗情	to flirt; to titillate; to provoke
逗樂	to amuse oneself; to clown around; to provoke laughter
逗比	(slang) silly but amusing person
逗留	to stay for a while; to sojourn
逗笑	to amuse; to cause to smile; amusing
逗號	comma (punct.)
逗趣	to amuse; to make sb laugh; to tease
逗趣兒	to amuse; to make sb laugh; to tease
逗逼	(slang) silly but amusing person
逗點	comma
這	(pronoun) this; these; (bound form) this; the (followed by a noun)
這一陣子	recently; currently
這下	this time
這下子	this time
這不	(coll.) As a matter of fact, ... (used to introduce evidence for what one has just asserted)
這些	these
這些個	these
這位	this (person)
這個	(pronoun) this; (adjective) this
這兒	here
這咱	now; at this moment
這嘎達	(northeast dialect) here; this place
這天	this day
這就	immediately; at once
這就是說	in other words; that is to say
這山望著那山高	lit. the next mountain looks taller (idiom); fig. not satisfied with one's current position
這年頭	(coll.) nowadays
這幾天	the past few days
這廝	this so-and-so
這早晚兒	now; at this time; this late
這時	at this time; at this moment
這會兒	(coll.) now; this moment; also pr. [zhe4 hui3 r5]
這樣	this way; like this; so; (before a noun) this kind of; such
這樣一來	thus; if this happens then
這樣子	so; such; this way
這種	this kind of
這般	like this; this way
這裡	here
這還了得	How dare you!; This is an outrage!; Absolutely disgraceful!
這邊	this side; here
這陣兒	now; at present; at this juncture
這陣子	now; at present; at this juncture
這類	this kind (of)
這麼	so much; this much; how much?
這麼樣	thus; in this way
這麼著	thus; in this way; like this
這麼點	such a small amount of (money, time etc)
通	classifier for an activity, taken in its entirety (tirade of abuse, stint of music playing, bout of drinking etc)
通乳	(medicine) to unblock breastmilk flow (of a nursing mother with clogged milk ducts)
通人	learned person; person of wide knowledge and sound scholarship
通例	general rule; standard practice
通便	(of medicine or food) to relieve constipation; to promote bowel movement
通便劑	(pharmacology) a laxative
通俗	common; everyday; average
通俗來講	to put it in simple terms, ...
通俗小說	popular fiction; light literature
通俗易懂	easy to understand
通俗科學	popular science
通信	to correspond (by letter, email etc)
通信兵	(military) signaller; signalman
通信地址	mail address
通信技術	communications technology
通信網絡	communications network
通信衛星	communications satellite
通假	phonetic loan character
通假字	phonetic loan character
通判	local magistrate
通則	general rule; general principle
通力	to cooperate; concerted effort
通力合作	to join forces; to give full cooperation
通勤	commuting
通化市	Tonghua, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
通化縣	Tonghua, a county in Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
通古斯	Tungus
通史	narrative history; comprehensive history
通同	to collude; to gang up on
通名	common noun; generic term; to introduce oneself
通向	to lead to
通告	to announce; to give notice; announcement
通商	(of nations) to have trade relations; to engage in trade
通商口岸	treaty port, forced on Qing China by the 19th century Great Powers
通問	to mutually send greetings; to communicate; to exchange news
通城縣	Tongcheng, a county in Xianning City 咸寧市|咸宁市[Xian2 ning2 Shi4], Hubei
通報	to inform; to notify; to announce
通夜	all through the night; overnight
通天徹地	to know all under heaven; exceptionally talented (idiom)
通姦	adultery; to commit adultery
通婚	to intermarry
通學	to attend school as a day student
通宵	all night; throughout the night
通宵達旦	overnight until daybreak (idiom); all night long; day and night
通山縣	Tongshan, a county in Xianning City 咸寧市|咸宁市[Xian2 ning2 Shi4], Hubei
通川區	Tongchuan, a district of Dazhou City 達州市|达州市[Da2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
通州區	Tongzhou, a district of Beijing
通布圖	Timbuktoo (town in Mali)
通常	regular; usual; normal; usually; normally
通往	to lead to
通徹	to understand completely
通心粉	macaroni
通心麵	macaroni
通情達理	(idiom) fair and reasonable; sensible; standing to reason
通才	polymath; all-round person
通才教育	liberal education; general education
通敵	to collaborate with the enemy
通明	brightly lit
通暢	unobstructed; clear; (of writing or thinking) coherent; fluent
通曉	proficient (in sth); to understand sth through and through
通書	almanac
通榆縣	Tongyu, a county in Baicheng City 白城市[Bai2 cheng2 Shi4], Jilin
通權達變	to adapt to circumstances
通氣	ventilation; aeration; to keep each other informed
通氣孔	an airvent; a louvre; airflow orifice
通氣會	briefing
通水	to have running water (in a house etc)
通江縣	Tongjiang, a county in Bazhong City 巴中市[Ba1 zhong1 Shi4], Sichuan
通河縣	Tonghe, a county in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
通泰	(dialect) clear (i.e. thoroughly understood)
通海縣	Tonghai, a county in Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
通渭縣	Tongwei, a county in Dingxi City 定西市[Ding4 xi1 Shi4], Gansu
通牒	diplomatic note
通用	to use anywhere, anytime (card, ticket etc)
通用串行總線	(computing) Universal Serial Bus; USB
通用人工智能	artificial general intelligence (AGI)
通用字符集	universal character set UCS
通用性	universality
通用拼音	the common use romanization system introduced in Taiwan in 2003
通用汽車	General Motors (car company)
通用汽車公司	General Motors
通用漢字標準交換碼	Standard Interchange Code for Generally Used Chinese Characters, a character encoding standard of Taiwan 1986-1992, aka CNS 11643-1986, where CNS stands for Chinese National Standard
通用碼	Standard Interchange Code for Generally Used Chinese Characters, a character encoding standard of Taiwan 1986-1992, aka CNS 11643-1986, where CNS stands for Chinese National Standard (abbr. for 通用漢字標準交換碼|通用汉字标准交换码[Tong1 yong4 Han4 zi4 Biao1 zhun3 Jiao1 huan4 ma3])
通用航空	general aviation
通用語	common language; lingua franca
通用電器	General Electric (GE)
通用電氣	General Electric (GE)
通病	common problem; common failing
通盤	across the board; comprehensive; overall
通知	to notify; to inform; notice
通知單	notification; notice; ticket
通知書	written notice
通票	through ticket
通稱	to be generally referred to (as); generic term
通稿	wire copy; press release
通約	common measure
通紅	very red; red through and through; to blush (deep red)
通經	conversant with the Confucian classics
通緝	to order the arrest of sb as criminal; to list as wanted
通緝令	order for arrest; wanted circular; wanted poster
通緝犯	wanted criminal; fugitive (from the law)
通縣	Tong county in Beijing
通縮	(economics) deflation (abbr. for 通貨緊縮|通货紧缩[tong1 huo4 jin3 suo1])
通脫木	rice-paper plant (Tetrapanax papyriferus)
通脹	inflation (abbr. for 通貨膨脹|通货膨胀[tong1 huo4 peng2 zhang4])
通脹率	inflation rate
通膨	(Tw) inflation (abbr. for 通貨膨脹|通货膨胀[tong1 huo4 peng2 zhang4])
通航	connected by air, sea traffic or service
通草	rice-paper plant (Tetrapanax papyriferus)
通融	flexible; to accommodate; to stretch or get around regulations
通行	to go through; to pass through; to be in general use
通行無阻	unobstructed passage; to go through unhindered
通行稅	toll
通行證	a pass (authority to enter); a laissez-passer or safe conduct
通觀	to take an overall view of sth; comprehensive view
通訊	communications; news story; dispatch
通訊作者	corresponding author (of an academic paper)
通訊協定	(Tw) (computing) communication protocol
通訊員	correspondent; reporter; messenger boy
通訊地址	mailing address; postal address
通訊社	a news service (e.g. Xinhua)
通訊系統	communication system
通訊自動化	communications automation
通訊處	contact address
通訊衛星	communications satellite
通訊錄	address book; directory
通訊院士	corresponding member (of an academy); junior academician
通許縣	Tongxu, a county in Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
通話	to hold a conversation; to talk over the telephone; phone call
通論	well-rounded argument; general survey
通證	digital token (loanword from "token") (neologism c. 2017)
通識	general knowledge; overall knowledge; common knowledge
通識培訓	general culture
通識教育	general education
通識課程	general course; general education course; core course
通譯	(old) to translate; to interpret; translator
通讀	to read through
通貨	currency; (old) exchange of goods
通貨緊縮	deflation
通貨膨脹	inflation
通路	thoroughfare; passage; pathway
通車	to open to traffic (e.g. new bridge, rail line etc)
通透	penetrating
通途	thoroughfare
通通	all; entire; complete
通過	to pass through; to get through
通道	(communications) channel; thoroughfare; passage
通道侗族自治縣	Tongdao Dong Autonomous County, in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
通達	to understand clearly; to be sensible or reasonable; understanding
通遼市	Tongliao, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
通郵	to have postal communications
通配符	wildcard character (computing)
通量	flux
通關	to clear customs; (gaming) to finish (a game, a level, a stage, etc)
通關密語	password
通關文牒	passport
通關節	to facilitate by means of bribery
通電	to set up an electric circuit; to electrify; to switch on
通電話	to phone sb up
通靈	to communicate with the spirits; psychic; (ears) sensitive
通靈板	Ouija board
通順	smooth; clear and coherent
通風	airy; ventilation; to ventilate
通風口	air vent; opening for ventilation
通風孔	air vent; louvre
通風管	ventilation duct
通體	(of sb or sth) whole or entire body
逛	to stroll; to visit
逛蕩	to wander around
逛街	to take a walk; to window-shop; to stroll down the street
逛逛	to roam around; to have a stroll
逝	(of flowing water or time) to pass by; to pass away; to die
逝世	to pass away; to die
逝去	to elapse; to pass away; to die
逝者	the dead; the deceased
逞	to show off; to flaunt; to carry out or succeed in a scheme
逞強	to show off; to try to be brave
逞能	to show off one's ability; to boast one's merits
速	fast; rapid; quick
速克達	(loanword) scooter
速凍	to quick-freeze
速勝	rapid victory
速可達	(loanword) scooter
速報	to report quickly; rapid reporting
速寫	quick sketch
速射	rapid-fire
速度	speed; rate; velocity; (music) tempo
速度滑冰	speed skating
速度計	speedometer
速成	crash (course); accelerated (process); quick (fix)
速成班	intensive course; crash course
速戰速決	(idiom) to adopt a blitzkrieg strategy; to resolve sth in the shortest time possible
速手排	gears (in a car)
速效	quick results; fast-acting
速效性毒劑	quick-acting agent
速效救心丸	fast-acting heart pills (a medication developed in China in 1982 to treat heart conditions including angina)
速決	quick decision
速溶	quick-dissolving; instantly-ready; instant
速溶咖啡	instant coffee
速滑	speed skating (abbr. for 速度滑冰[su4 du4 hua2 bing1])
速率	speed; rate
速記	shorthand
速記員	stenographer
速調管	klystron (electronic tube used to produce high frequency radio waves)
速讀	speed reading
速賜康	(Tw) (coll.) pentazocine (a synthetic opioid analgesic)
速通	to get through sth quickly
速遞	courier
速配	fast matchmaking; speed dating
速錄師	stenographer
速食	(of food) fast; instant; (Tw) fast food
速食店	fast food shop
速食麵	instant noodles
造	to make; to build; to manufacture
造人	(of a creator deity) to create mankind
造作	affected; artificial; to make
造假	to counterfeit; to pass off a fake as genuine
造價	construction cost
造勢	to boost support or interest; to campaign; to promote
造化	(literary) Nature; the Creator
造反	to rebel; to revolt
造反派	rebel faction
造句	sentence-making
造型	to model; to shape; appearance; style; design; form; pose
造型師	stylist (fashion); cartoon character designer
造型服裝	costume
造型氣球	balloon modeling; balloon twisting
造型藝術	visual arts
造型蛋糕	custom-designed cake (e.g. cake shaped like a guitar, camera or cartoon character)
造型跳傘	formation skydiving
造字	to create Chinese characters
造孽	to do evil; to commit sins
造富	(of an investment etc) to create wealth; to make people rich
造就	to bring up; to train; to contribute to
造山	mountain building; orogenesis (geology)
造山作用	orogeny (geology)
造山帶	orogenic belt (geology)
造山運動	mountain building (geology); orogenesis
造岩礦物	rock-forming mineral
造幣廠	mint
造成	to bring about; to create; to cause
造林	forestation
造次	(literary) hurried; rash
造父變星	(astronomy) Cepheid variable star
造物	luck; to create the universe; god (as the creator of all things)
造物主	the Creator (in religion or mythology); God
造福	to benefit (e.g. the people)
造福社群	to benefit the community
造福萬民	to benefit thousands of people
造紙	papermaking
造紙術	papermaking process
造繭自縛	to spin a cocoon around oneself (idiom); enmeshed in a trap of one's own devising
造船	shipbuilding
造船廠	dockyard; shipyard
造船所	shipyard
造血	(physiology) to produce blood; hematopoietic
造血幹細胞	blood generating stem cells (in bone marrow)
造訪	(formal) to visit; to pay a visit
造詣	level of mastery (of a skill or area of knowledge)
造謠	to start a rumor
造謠生事	to start rumours and create trouble
造輿論	to build up public opinion; to create a fuss
逡	to shrink back (from sth)
逡巡	to draw back; to move back and forth; to hesitate
逡巡不前	to hesitate to move forward; to balk; to jib
逢	to meet by chance; to come across; (of a calendar event) to come along
逢人便講	to tell anybody one happens to meet
逢俉	to come across sth scary; to have a fright
逢凶化吉	misfortune turns to blessing (idiom); to turn an inauspicious start to good account
逢場作戲	lit. find a stage, put on a comedy (idiom); to join in the fun
逢年過節	during holidays and festivals; on festive occasions such as New Year
逢迎	to fawn on; to ingratiate oneself; (literary) to meet face to face
逢集	market day
連	to link; to join; to connect
連三併四	one after the other; in succession (idiom)
連中三元	(old) to rank first in the imperial examinations at the provincial capital, the national capital and the palace successively
連串	one after the other; a succession of; a series of
連任	to continue in (a political) office
連作	continuous cropping; to plant the same crop continuously on the same land
連分數	(math.) continued fraction
連動	to link; to peg (currency); gang (gears)
連動債	structured note (finance)
連南瑤族自治縣	Liannan Yao Autonomous County, in Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
連合	to combine; to join; to unite
連同	together with; along with
連哄帶騙	to cajole; to sweet talk sb into doing sth
連坐	to treat as guilty those associated with an offender (family, neighbors etc)
連坐制	guilt by association
連城縣	Liancheng, a county in Longyan City 龍巖市|龙岩市[Long2 yan2 Shi4], Fujian
連夜	that very night; through the night; for several nights in a row
連天	reaching the sky; for days on end; incessantly
連奔帶跑	to run quickly; to rush; to gallop
連字符	hyphen
連字符號	hyphen
連字號	hyphen (punct.)
連宵	the same night; that very night; successive nights
連寫	to write without lifting one's pen from the paper
連山區	Lianshan, a district of Huludao City 葫蘆島市|葫芦岛市[Hu2 lu2 dao3 Shi4], Liaoning
連山壯族瑤族自治縣	Lianshan Zhuang and Yao Autonomous County, in Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
連州市	Lianzhou, a county-level city in Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
連巹	to share nuptial cup; (fig.) to get married
連帶	to be related; to entail; to involve
連帶責任	to bear joint responsibility for sth; joint liability (law)
連帽衛衣	hooded sweatshirt; hoodie
連平縣	Lianping, a county in Heyuan City 河源市[He2 yuan2 Shi4], Guangdong
連年	successive years; over many years
連忙	promptly; at once
連戰	Lien Chan (1936-), Taiwanese politician, former vice-president and chairman of Guomintang
連戰連勝	fighting and winning a series of battles (idiom); ever victorious
連手	concerted action; to collude (in dishonesty)
連拖帶拉	pushing and pulling (idiom)
連招	(gaming or martial arts) a sequence of attacks or moves; combo
連指手套	mittens
連接	to link; to join; to connect
連接器	connector
連接框	connection frame; linked frame
連接至	to connect to
連接號	hyphen
連接詞	conjunction
連接酶	ligase
連擊	to batter; combo (hit) (gaming)
連敗	consecutive defeats; to lose several times in a row
連日	day after day; for several days running
連書	to write without lifting one's pen from the paper
連本帶利	both principal and interest; capital plus profit
連枷	flail
連枷胸	(medicine) flail chest
連根拔	to pull up by the roots; to uproot
連橫	Horizontal Alliance, clique of the School of Diplomacy 縱橫家|纵横家[Zong4 heng2 jia1] during the Warring States Period (425-221 BC)
連歌	renga
連比	compound ratio
連江縣	Lianjiang, a county in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
連滾帶爬	(idiom) stumbling and crawling; scrambling; frantically trying to escape
連片	forming a continuous sheet; continuous; contiguous
連珠	joined as a string of pearls; in rapid succession; alignment
連珠砲	barrage of gunfire (often used as a metaphor for rapid speech)
連理	two trees that grow together as one; fig. conjugal union
連璧	to join jade annuli; fig. to combine two good things
連環	chain of rings; (attributive) linked; successive; serial
連環圖	comic strip
連環套	set of interlocking rings; (fig.) series of interlinked events
連環殺手	serial killer
連環畫	lianhuanhua (graphic novel)
連環計	coordinated sequence of strategic moves
連用	to use (two words etc) together; to use (sth) continuously
連番	repeatedly
連發	to fire (a weapon) in rapid succession
連筆	to write without lifting one's pen from the paper
連篇累牘	(of a piece of writing) long and tedious (idiom); verbose
連累	to implicate; to get (sb) into trouble
連結	(Tw) link (on a website); hyperlink
連結主義	connectionism
連結線	tie (music)
連綴	to put together; linking; successive
連綴動詞	linking verb
連綿	continuous; unbroken; uninterrupted
連綿不絕	(idiom) continuous; unending
連線	electrical lead; connecting line
連縣	Lian county in Guangdong
連繫	to link; to connect
連繫詞	copula (linguistics)
連續	continuous; in a row; serial
連續不斷	continuous; unceasing
連續介質力學	mechanics of a continuous medium; fluid mechanics
連續函數	continuous function
連續劇	TV series
連續性	continuity
連續犯	successive offenses; serial crime
連續監視	continuous monitoring
連續統假設	(math.) the continuum hypothesis
連續變調	tone sandhi
連續體	continuum
連署	to cosign; to countersign
連翹	Forsythia
連聲	repeatedly (say something)
連號	consecutive serial numbers; chain (of supermarkets, hotels etc)
連衣裙	a one-piece dress
連褲襪	pantyhose; tights
連襟	husbands of sisters; brothers-in-law
連詞	conjunction
連讀	liaison (in phonetics)
連貫	to link up (disparate elements); coherent (narrative, argument etc)
連踢帶打	to kick and beat
連軸轉	(coll.) to work non-stop; to work around the clock
連載	serialized; published as a serial (in a newspaper)
連通	to connect; to communicate; to relate
連通器	communicating vessels (in scientific experiment)
連連	repeatedly; again and again
連連看	pattern matching (puzzle game)
連銷店	chain store
連鍋端	to take even the cooking pots (idiom); to clean out; to wipe out
連鎖	to interlock; to be linked; chain (store etc)
連鎖反應	(physics) chain reaction
連鎖商店	chain store
連鎖店	chain store
連鑄	continuous casting (metallurgy)
連鑣並軫	lit. reins together and carriages level (idiom); keeping exactly abreast of one another
連長	company commander
連陰雨	prolonged spell of rainy weather
連隊	company (of troops)
連雲區	Lianyun, a district of Lianyungang City 連雲港市|连云港市[Lian2 yun2 gang3 Shi4], Jiangsu
連雲港市	Lianyungang, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
連音	tuplet (music); sandhi (phonetics)
連音符	(music) tuplet
連骨肉	chop; rib meat
連體	conjoined (twins); one-piece (garment)
連體嬰	conjoined twins
連體嬰兒	conjoined twins; Siamese twins
連體泳衣	one-piece swimsuit
連體褲	jumpsuit
連體雙胞胎	conjoined twins; Siamese twins
連麥	(of two people in different locations) to sing or otherwise perform together using communications technology
逭	to escape from
逮	(literary) to reach; used in 逮捕[dai4 bu3] (Taiwan pr. [dai3])
逮捕	to arrest; to apprehend; to take into custody; Taiwan pr. [dai3bu3]
逯	to walk cautiously; to walk aimlessly
週	week; weekly
週一	Monday
週三	Wednesday
週二	Tuesday
週五	Friday
週休二日	(Tw) two-day weekend (usually Saturday and Sunday)
週六	Saturday
週刊	weekly publication; weekly
週四	Thursday
週報	weekly publication
週天	Sunday
週年	anniversary; annual
週日	(dialect) weekday
週期	period; cycle
週期性	periodic; periodicity (math); cyclicity
週期數	periodic number
週期系	periodic system; periodicity (chemistry)
週期表	periodic table (chemistry)
週期解	periodic solution (math.)
週末	weekend
週末愉快	have a nice weekend!
週歲	one full year (e.g. on child's first birthday)
週游	to travel around
週租	to rent by the week
週而復始	lit. the cycle comes back to the start (idiom); to move in circles
週薪	weekly salary
週遊	to travel around
進	to go forward; to advance; to go in
進一步	to go a step further; (develop, understand, improve etc) more; further
進京	to enter the capital; to go to Beijing
進位法	system of writing numbers to a base, such as decimal or binary (math)
進來	to come in
進修	to undertake advanced studies; to take a refresher course
進價	opening price
進入	to enter; to join; to go into
進出	to enter and exit; to go in and out; inflow and outflow (of goods, vehicles, funds etc)
進出口	importation and exportation; import-export
進出境	entering and leaving a country
進動	precession (physics)
進化	to evolve (biologically, technologically etc); evolution
進化論	theory of evolution; (esp.) Darwinism
進去	to go in
進取	to show initiative; to be a go-getter
進取心	enterprising spirit; initiative
進口	to import; imported; entrance
進口商	importer; import business
進城	to go to town; to enter a big city (to live or work)
進場	to enter the venue; to enter the arena
進士	successful candidate in the highest imperial civil service examination
進學	to advance one's learning
進宮	to enter the emperor's palace; (slang) to go to jail
進展	to make headway; to make progress
進度	rate of progress
進度條	(computing) progress bar
進度表	progress chart; schedule
進廠	to go work in a factory
進接	(computing) access (to a network)
進擊	to attack
進攻	to attack; to assault; to go on the offensive
進料	to feed (a machine); foreign goods (abbr. of 進口資料|进口资料)
進棧	(computing) to push (a value) onto a stack
進步	progress; improvement; to improve; to progress
進步主義	progressivism
進步號	Progress (name of Russian spaceship)
進水	to have water get in (one's ear, shoes etc); to get flooded
進水口	water inlet
進水閘	water intake; inlet sluice
進深	(of a house or room) distance from the entrance to the rear; depth
進犯	to invade
進獻	to offer as tribute
進球	to score a goal; goal (sport)
進發	(of a group of people or a convoy of vehicles) to set off
進益	income; (literary) improvement; progress
進程	course of events; process
進站	(of a train, bus etc) to pull into a station; to arrive at a stop
進而	and then; and thereby; and in turn
進行	(of a process etc) to proceed; to be in progress; to be underway
進行性	progressive; gradual
進行性失語	progressive aphasia; gradual loss of speech
進行曲	march (musical)
進補	to take a tonic (for one's health)
進襲	raid; to carry out a raid; to invade
進見	to formally present oneself before a superior (e.g. a ruler, high-ranking official or esteemed figure) for an official meeting; to have an audience with
進言	to put forward a suggestion (to sb in a senior position)
進貢	to present tribute (to a suzerain, the emperor etc)
進貨	to acquire stock; to replenish stock
進賢縣	Jinxian, a county in Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
進賬	(of money) to come into an account; to get; to earn; income; receipts
進路	way of proceeding; approach (to a task etc)
進身	to get oneself promoted to a higher rank
進身之階	stepping-stone to greater power or higher rank
進軍	(military) to march; to advance
進退	to advance or retreat; knowing when to come and when to leave
進退不得	can't advance or retreat (idiom); no room for maneuver; stalled
進退中繩	to advance or retreat, each has its rules (idiom from Zhuangzi); many translations are possible
進退兩難	no room to advance or to retreat (idiom); without any way out of a dilemma
進退失據	no room to advance or to retreat (idiom); at a loss
進退有常	to advance or retreat, each has its rules (idiom from Zhuangzi); many translations are possible
進退為難	no room to advance or to retreat (idiom); without any way out of a dilemma
進退無路	to have no alternative (idiom)
進退維谷	no room to advance or to retreat (idiom); without any way out of a dilemma
進退自如	free to come and go (idiom); to have room to maneuver
進逼	to advance on sth; to press closely (on some goal)
進道若蜷	progress seems like regress (alternative wording for 進道若退|进道若退[jin4 dao4 ruo4 tui4])
進道若退	progress seems like regress (the Book of Dao 道德經|道德经[Dao4 de2 jing1], Chpt. 41)
進門	to enter a door; to go in; to learn the basics of a subject
進關	inbound customs (international trade)
進階	advanced
進項	income; receipts; earnings; revenue
進食	to eat; to take food
進餐	to have a meal
進香	to burn incense at a temple
進駐	to enter and garrison; (fig.) to establish a presence in
逴	apparent; distant; highly
逵	crossroads; thoroughfare
逶	used in 逶迤[wei1 yi2]
逶迤	(literary) (of roads, rivers, mountain ranges etc) long and winding; meandering
逸	(bound form) to flee; to escape
逸事	anecdote; lost or apocryphal story about famous person
逸塵	outstanding; above the common; out of the ordinary
逸塵斷鞅	lit. kicking up the dust and breaking the harness
逸宕	dissolute
逸散	(of gas, liquid, toxins, heat etc) to escape; to dissipate
逸樂	pleasure-seeking
逸民	recluse; hermit
逸群	above the common; outstanding; excelling
逸致	carefree mood
逸蕩	dissolute
逸話	rumor; anecdote (not in the official record); apocryphal story
逸豫	idleness and pleasure
逼	to force (sb to do sth); to compel; to press for
逼上梁山	driven to join the Liangshan Mountain rebels; to drive to revolt
逼人	pressing; threatening
逼人太甚	to push sb too far; to go too far (in oppressing people)
逼仄	narrow; cramped
逼供	to extort a confession
逼供信	to obtain confessions by compulsion; confession under duress
逼債	to press for payment of debts; to dun
逼兜	(slang) a slap on the face
逼和	to force a draw (in chess, competition etc)
逼問	to question intensely; to interrogate; to demand information
逼姦	to rape
逼宮	to force the king or emperor to abdicate
逼將	to checkmate (in chess)
逼尖	to sharpen (one's voice)
逼搶	(sports) to press an opponent in an attempt to win the ball
逼格	(slang) pretentious style
逼死	to hound sb to death
逼真	lifelike; true to life; distinctly
逼肖	to bear a close resemblance to; to be the very image of
逼良為娼	to force an honest girl into prostitution (idiom); to debauch
逼視	to look at from close up; to watch intently
逼近	to press on towards; to close in on; to approach
逼迫	to force; to compel; to coerce
逼逼	(vulgar) to rattle on; to talk drivel
逾	to exceed; to go beyond; to transcend
逾垣	to run away; to escape
逾期	to be overdue; to fail to meet a deadline; to be behind in doing sth
逾越	to exceed
逾越節	Passover (Jewish holiday)
逿	to fall; to sway; to cross
遁	to evade; to flee; to escape
遁入空門	to take refuge in religious life
遁形	to vanish; to hide; to cover one's traces
遂	used in 半身不遂[ban4 shen1 bu4 sui2]; Taiwan pr. [sui4]
遂寧市	Suining, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
遂川縣	Suichuan, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
遂平縣	Suiping, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
遂心	to one's liking
遂心如意	totally satisfying
遂意	to one's liking
遂昌縣	Suichang, a county in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
遂溪縣	Suixi, a county in Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
遂願	to have one's wish fulfilled
遄	to hurry; to go to and fro
遇	(bound form) to encounter; to happen upon; to meet unplanned
遇上	to come across (sb); to run into
遇事生風	to stir up trouble at every opportunity (idiom)
遇人不淑	(idiom) to be in a relationship with or marry a bad person
遇冷	to be exposed to cold temperatures
遇到	to meet; to run into; to come across
遇刺	to be attacked by an assassin
遇害	to be murdered
遇強則強	tough adversaries make you stronger
遇溺	(HK) to get into difficulties (in the sea or a swimming pool etc)
遇火	to catch fire; to ignite
遇襲	to suffer attack; to be ambushed
遇見	to meet
遇險	to get into difficulties; to meet with danger
遇難	to perish; to be killed
遇難者	victim; fatality
遇難船	shipwreck
遇雨順延	to postpone (an activity) in the event of wet weather
遊	to walk; to tour; to roam
遊人	a tourist
遊人如織	crowded with visitors; packed with tourists
遊伴	playmate; travel companion
遊俠	knight-errant
遊俠騎士	a knight-errant
遊刃有餘	handling a butcher's cleaver with ease (idiom); to do sth skillfully and easily
遊吟詩人	troubadour; bard
遊園	to visit a park or garden
遊園會	garden party; fete (held in a garden or park); carnival; fair
遊子	person living or traveling far from home
遊學	to study away from home or abroad (old)
遊客	traveler; tourist; (online gaming) guest player
遊導	tour guide
遊山玩水	to go on a scenic tour
遊惰	to laze about without doing anything productive
遊戲	game (CL:場|场[chang3]); to play
遊戲主機	video game console
遊戲場	playground
遊戲手把	gamepad (Tw)
遊戲機	video game machine; video game console
遊戲王	Yu-Gi-Oh!
遊戲設備	gaming device; controller (for computer or console)
遊戲說	theory of free play (in Kant's philosophy)
遊手	to be idle
遊手好閑	to idle about
遊星	(old) planet
遊春	to go for a trip in spring
遊樂	to amuse oneself; recreation
遊樂園	amusement park
遊樂場	playground
遊標卡尺	dial calipers
遊歷	to tour; to travel
遊民	vagrant; vagabond
遊民改造	rehabilitation of displaced persons
遊牧	nomadic; to move about in search of pasture; to rove around as a nomad
遊獵	to go on a hunting expedition
遊玩	to amuse oneself; to have fun; to go sightseeing
遊船	pleasure boat; cruise ship
遊艇	barge; yacht
遊蕩	to wander; to roam about; to loaf about
遊藝	entertainment
遊藝團	group of actors or acrobats at a fair; theatrical troupe
遊藝場	place of entertainment
遊藝會	folk festival; fair; carnival
遊行	to march; to parade; to demonstrate; procession; march; demonstration
遊街	to parade sb through the streets; to march or parade in the streets
遊街示眾	to parade (a prisoner) through the streets
遊覽	to go sightseeing; to tour; to visit
遊覽區	tourist regions; sightseeing area
遊記	travel notes
遊說	to lobby; to campaign; to promote (an idea, a product)
遊說集團	lobby group
遊走	to wander about; to roam
遊輪	cruise ship
遊逛	to go sightseeing; to spend one's leisure time wandering around
遊離	to disassociate; to drift away; to leave (a collective)
運	to move; to transport; to use
運交	to consign; to send (goods to customers); shipping
運作	to operate; operations; workings
運使	commissioner (old)
運價	fare; transport cost
運出	shipment; to dispatch; to ship out
運出運費	outward freight (accountancy)
運力	transport capacity
運動	to move; to exercise; sports
運動健將	champion-level athlete (title awarded by the General Administration of Sport of China based on performance in international and national competitions)
運動員	athlete
運動場	sports field; playground; exercise yard
運動學	kinematics
運動定律	laws of motion (mechanics)
運動家	athlete; sportsman; activist
運動戰	mobile warfare
運動方程	equations of motion
運動會	sports competition
運動服	sportswear
運動病	car sickness; motion sickness
運動相機	action camera
運動衫	sports shirt; sweatshirt
運動鞋	sports shoes; sneakers
運勢	horoscope; one's fortune
運十	Shanghai Y-10; Yun-10 commercial jet aircraft
運命	fate; one's fortune
運單	way bill; transport charge
運城市	Yuncheng, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
運存	RAM (abbr. for 運行內存|运行内存[yun4 xing2 nei4 cun2])
運將	driver (of a taxi etc) (loanword from Japanese) (Tw)
運思	to think; to exercise one's mind
運慶	Unkei (c. 1150-1224), Japanese sculptor of Buddhist images
運數	one's fortune; destiny
運氣	luck (good or bad)
運河	canal
運河區	Yunhe, a district of Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
運營	to be in operation; to do business
運營商	operator (of a power station, transport network etc)
運營總監	chief operating officer (COO)
運球	to dribble (basketball, soccer etc)
運用	to use; to put to use
運用自如	to have a fluent command of (idiom)
運神	to concentrate; to think what you're doing
運科	(Tw) sports science (abbr. for 運動科學|运动科学[yun4 dong4 ke1 xue2])
運移	migration (geology)
運程	one's fortune (in astrology)
運筆	to wield the pen; to write
運算	to perform calculations; (mathematical) operation
運算式	(math.) expression (arithmetic, Boolean etc)
運算數	operand (math.)
運算環境	operating environment
運算符	(math.) operator
運籌	to plan; operations; logistics
運籌學	operations research (OR)
運籌帷幄	lit. to devise battle plan in a tent (idiom); fig. planning strategies
運籌帷幄之中，決勝千里之外	a general planning in the seclusion of his tent is able to determine the outcome of the distant battle (idiom)
運維	operations and maintenance (esp. of IT systems, networks, or industrial facilities – in IT contexts, refers to system administration, deployment, and monitoring) (abbr. for 運行|运行[yun4 xing2] + 維護|维护[wei2 hu4])
運腳	freight charge
運行	(of celestial bodies etc) to move along one's course
運行方式	operating method; running mode
運行時	(computing) runtime
運行時錯誤	run-time error (in computing)
運貨員	porter
運貨馬車	cargo wagon
運費	freight fee
運載	to transport; to carry (goods, materials or people)
運載火箭	carrier rocket
運載量	carrying capacity; maximum load; load actually carried
運輸	to transport; to carry; transportation
運輸業	transportation industry
運輸網	transport network
運輸船	transport ship
運輸艦	transport ship
運輸量	volume of freight
運轉	to work; to operate; to revolve
運送	to transport; to carry
運道	fortune; luck; fate
運量	volume of freight
運鈔車	armored car (for transporting valuables)
運銷	distribution; transport and sale (of goods)
運鏡	(cinematography) camera movement (tracking, panning, zooming etc); to execute a camera movement
遍	everywhere; all over; classifier for actions: one time
遍及	to extend (everywhere)
遍地	everywhere; all over
遍地開花	(idiom) to blossom everywhere; to spring up all over the place; to flourish on a large scale
遍布	to cover the whole (area); to be found throughout
遍歷	to traverse; to travel throughout; (math.) ergodic
遍身	over the whole body
遍體	all over the body
遍體鱗傷	(idiom) covered all over with cuts and bruises; beaten black and blue
過	to cross; to go over; to pass (time)
過一會兒	later; after a while
過不去	to make life difficult for; to embarrass; unable to make it through
過世	to die; to pass away
過乾癮	to satisfy a craving with substitutes
過了這個村就沒這個店	past this village, you won't find this shop (idiom)
過了這村沒這店	past this village, you won't find this shop (idiom)
過五關斬六將	lit. to cross five passes and slay six generals (idiom)
過人	to surpass others; outstanding
過低	too low
過來	to come over; to manage; to handle
過來人	an experienced person; sb who has "been around (the block)"
過冬	to get through the winter
過分	excessive; undue; unduly; overly
過刊	back issue (abbr. for 過期刊物|过期刊物[guo4 qi1 kan1 wu4])
過剩	to be excessive; to be more than is required
過勞	overwork
過勞死	karoshi (loanword from Japanese), death from overwork
過勞肥	overweight from overwork (the supposition that white collar workers become fat as a consequence of factors associated with being under pressure at work, including irregular diet, lack of exercise and inadequate rest)
過半	over fifty percent; more than half
過去	(in the) past; former; previous; to go over; to pass by
過去分詞	past participle (in European grammar)
過去式	past tense
過去時	past tense (grammar)
過問	to show an interest in; to get involved with
過堂	to appear in court for trial (old)
過場	interlude; to cross the stage; to do sth as a mere formality
過塑	(stationery) to laminate
過境	to pass through a country's territory; transit
過境簽證	transit visa
過多	too many; excessive
過夜	to spend the night; overnight
過失	error; fault; (law) negligence
過失致死罪	(law) negligent homicide
過孔	(electronics) via (a type of hole in a circuit board)
過客	passing traveler; transient guest; sojourner
過家家	to play house
過審	to pass a review
過少	too few; insufficient
過山車	roller coaster
過帳	posting (accounting)
過年	to celebrate the Chinese New Year
過度	excessive; over-; excess
過度緊張	hypertension; excessive stress
過度醫療	overtreatment; excessive or unnecessary medical treatment
過度關懷	obsession; excessive concern
過庭錄	lit. Notes on Passing the Hall, historical jottings by 12th century Southern Song poet Fan Gongcheng 范公偁[Fan4 Gong1 cheng1], containing moral instructions derived from great men of Song dynasty
過往	to come and go; to associate with; to have dealings with
過後	after the event
過得	How are you getting by?; How's life?
過得去	lit. can pass through (an opening); fig. can get by (in life)
過從	to have relations with; to associate with
過意不去	to feel very apologetic
過慣	to be accustomed to (a certain lifestyle etc)
過戶	to transfer ownership or title (of real estate or a vehicle etc); to register a change of ownership
過房	to adopt; to give for adoption (usually to a childless relative)
過招	to fight; to exchange blows
過敏	(medicine) allergic; hypersensitive
過敏原	allergen; anaphylactogen
過敏反應	allergic reaction
過敏性	hypersensitive; allergic reaction; anaphylaxis
過敏性休克	anaphylactic shock
過敏性反應	allergic reaction; hypersensitive reaction; anaphylaxis
過於	excessively; too
過日子	to live one's life; to pass one's days; to get along
過早	premature; untimely; (dialect) to have breakfast; breakfast
過時	old-fashioned; out of date
過時不候	being late is not acceptable (idiom)
過期	to be overdue; to exceed the time limit
過橋米線	rice noodle soup from Yunnan province
過橋貸款	bridge loan
過氣	past one's prime; has-been
過氧	peroxy-; peroxide (chemistry)
過氧化	peroxide
過氧化氫	hydrogen peroxide H2O2
過氧化氫酶	catalase (enzyme); hydrogen peroxidase
過氧化物	peroxide
過氧化苯甲酰	benzoil peroxide
過氧物酶體	peroxisome (type of organelle)
過氧苯甲酰	benzoil peroxide
過水麵	cooked noodles cooled with cold water
過江之鯽	(idiom) vast multitude of people
過河	to cross a river
過河拆橋	(lit.) to destroy the bridge after crossing the river (idiom)
過活	to live one's life; to make a living
過渡	to cross over (by ferry); transition; interim
過渡性	transitional; bridging
過渡性貸款	bridging loan
過渡時期	transition period
過渡貸款	bridging loan
過渡金屬	transition metal (chemistry)
過激	drastic; extreme; aggressive
過濾	to filter
過濾嘴	cigarette filter; filter tip
過濾器	filtering apparatus; (machine) filter
過火	to go too far; to go overboard (in words or actions)
過熱	too hot; (fig.) (economics) overheated; (physics) to superheat
過犯	previous sins
過猶不及	too far is as bad as not enough (idiom, from the Analects)
過獎	to overpraise; to flatter
過生	to celebrate a birthday
過生日	to celebrate a birthday
過當	excessive
過癮	to satisfy a craving; to get a kick out of sth; gratifying
過目	to look over
過目不忘	to have a highly retentive memory
過眼煙雲	ephemeral (idiom)
過眼雲煙	ephemeral (idiom)
過硬	to have perfect mastery of sth; to be up to the mark
過磅	to weigh (on a scale)
過秤	to weigh sth
過程	course of events; process
過站大廳	transit lounge
過節	to celebrate a festival
過節兒	(coll.) grudge; strife; (coll.) good manners
過篩	to put through a sieve; to sift (flour etc); to strain (a liquid); (fig.) to screen; to filter; to select
過細	extremely careful; meticulous; overattentive
過緊日子	to tighten one's belt; to live frugally
過繼	to adopt; to give for adoption (usually to a childless relative)
過而能改，善莫大焉	If one can change after making a mistake, there is nothing better (idiom)
過肩摔	(judo) shoulder throw
過膠	(stationery) to laminate
過街天橋	skywalk; pedestrian bridge
過街老鼠	sb or sth detested by all; target of scorn; anathema
過譽	to praise too much; I really don't deserve so much praise
過貓	(Tw) edible fern fronds (fiddleheads), specifically Diplazium esculentum
過路人	a passer-by
過路費	toll (fee for using a road)
過身	to die; to pass away
過載	overload
過道	passageway; corridor; aisle
過重	overweight (luggage)
過量	excessive
過錯	mistake; fault; responsibility (for a fault)
過門	to pass through a doorway; (of a woman) to marry
過關	to cross a barrier; to get through (an ordeal); to pass (a test)
過關斬將	to surmount all difficulties (on the way to success) (idiom) (abbr. for 過五關斬六將|过五关斩六将[guo4 wu3 guan1 zhan3 liu4 jiang4])
過頭	to overdo it; to overstep the limit; excessively
過頭話	exaggeration
過馬路	to cross the street
過高	too high
遏	to restrain; to check; to hold back
遏制	to check; to contain; to hold back
遏抑	to suppress; to restrain
遏止	to hold back; to check (i.e. to stop sb's advance); to resist
遏阻	to stop; to contain; to deter
遐	distant; long-lasting; to abandon
遐布	to spread far and wide
遐年	a great age
遐心	the wish to abandon or keep aloof; the desire to live in retirement
遐志	lofty ambition; lofty aspiration
遐思	to fancy from afar; reverie; wild and fanciful thoughts
遐想	reverie; daydream; to be lost in wild and fanciful thoughts
遐方	distant places; distant lands
遐棄	to cast away; to reject; to shun
遐眺	to stretch one's sight as far as possible
遐祉	lasting blessings; lasting happiness
遐福	great and lasting happiness; lasting blessings
遐終	forever
遐胄	distant descendants
遐舉	to go a long way away
遐荒	out-of-the-way places
遐跡	stories of ancient people
遐軌	long-established rules of conduct
遐邇	near and far; far and wide
遐邇一體	both near and distant treated alike (idiom)
遐邇皆知	known far and wide
遐齡	advanced age; longevity; long life
遑	leisure
遑論	let alone; not to mention
遑遑	hurried; anxious
遒	strong; vigorous; robust
道	road; path (CL:條|条[tiao2],股[gu3]); (bound form) way; reason; principle
道不同不相為謀	lit. persons who walk different paths cannot make plans together
道不拾遺	lit. no one picks up lost articles in the street (idiom)
道之所存，師之所存	If sb has grasped the truth before you, take him as your teacher (Tang dynasty essayist Han Yu 韓愈|韩愈[Han2 Yu4]).
道人	Taoist devotee (honorific)
道光	reign name of Qing emperor (1821-1850)
道光帝	Daoguang Emperor
道具	(theater) prop; paraphernalia; (gaming) item; artifact
道具服	costume
道出	to speak; to tell; to voice
道別	to say goodbye; to bid farewell; to pay a farewell call
道卡斯族	Taokas, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
道喜	to congratulate
道地	authentic; original
道場	Taoist or Buddhist rite; abbr. for 菩提道場|菩提道场[Pu2 ti2 dao4 chang3]
道士	Daoist priest
道外區	Daowai, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
道奇	Dodge, US automobile brand, division of Chrysler LLC
道姑	Daoist nun
道孚縣	Dawu, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
道學	Confucian study of ethics; study of Daoism
道家	Daoist School of the Warring States Period (475-221 BC), based on the teachings of Laozi or Lao-tze 老子[Lao3 zi3] (c. 500 BC-) and Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3] (369-286 BC)
道山學海	mountain of Dao, sea of learning (idiom); learning is as high as the mountains, as wide as the seas
道岔	railroad switch
道德	virtue; morality; ethics
道德困境	ethical dilemma
道德家	Daoist
道德敗壞	vice; immorality; moral turpitude
道德淪喪	moral bankruptcy; moral degeneracy
道德綁架	to coerce by invoking moral obligations (duty, sacrifice, reciprocation etc); to lay a guilt trip on sb
道德經	the Book of Dao by Laozi or Lao-Tze, the sacred text of Daoism
道德觀	one's perspective on morality
道德認識	moral cognition; ethical awareness
道德高地	moral high ground
道拉吉里峰	Dhaulagiri, mountain massif in the Himalayas
道指	Dow Jones Industrial Average (abbr. for 道瓊斯指數|道琼斯指数[Dao4 Qiong2 si1 Zhi3 shu4])
道教	Taoism; Daoism
道教徒	a Daoist; a follower of Daoism
道格拉斯	Douglas (name)
道格拉斯·麥克阿瑟	General Douglas MacArthur (1880-1964), US commander in Pacific during WW2, sacked in 1951 by President Truman for exceeding orders during the Korean war
道歉	to apologize
道爾頓	Dalton (name)
道牙	curb
道理	reason; argument; sense
道瓊	Dow Jones (stock market index)
道瓊斯	Dow Jones (stock market index)
道瓊斯指數	Dow Jones Industrial Average
道白	spoken lines in opera
道真仡佬族苗族自治縣	Daozhen Gelao and Miao Autonomous County, in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
道破	to expose; to reveal
道碴	(railway) ballast
道系	(neologism, attested by 2017) Dao-type, a type of person who has traits associated with a Daoist approach to life, such as being active, optimistic, earthy and forthright (cf. 佛系[fo2 xi4])
道統	Confucian orthodoxy
道縣	Dao County or Daoxian, a county in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
道義	morality; righteousness and justice
道聽途說	gossip; hearsay; rumor
道臺	(Ming and Qing dynasties) daotai (title for an official responsible for supervising a circuit 道|道[dao4]), aka taotai and circuit intendant
道藏	Daoist scripture
道行	skills acquired through religious practice; (fig.) ability; skill
道袍	Taoist robe; traditional men's gown
道裡區	Daoli, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
道觀	Daoist temple
道謝	to express thanks
道貌岸然	sanctimonious; dignified
道賀	to congratulate
道路	road; path; way
道路工程	road construction
道長	Taoist priest; Daoist priest
道院	Daoyuan (Sanctuary of the Dao)
道館	martial arts studio; dojo
道高一尺，魔高一丈	(saying) as one climbs higher on the path of righteousness, one faces ever greater challenges from evil; no sooner does one overcome one obstacle than another arises
道高益安，勢高益危	More moral strength increases one's safety, more power and influence increases one's danger (idiom, from Records of the Historian 史記|史记). cf Unlimited power is apt to corrupt the minds of those who possess it (William Pitt the Elder, 1770).
達	to attain; to reach; to amount to
達·芬奇	Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519), Italian Renaissance painter
達不到	cannot achieve; cannot reach
達人	(coll.) expert; connoisseur; guru; enthusiast; geek (influenced by Japanese 達人 "tatsujin" c. 2000)
達令	(loanword) darling
達克瓦茲	(loanword) dacquoise (a French dessert)
達克龍	Dacron (brand)
達到	to reach; to achieve; to attain
達卡	Dhaka, capital of Bangladesh; (Tw) Dakar, capital of Senegal
達味	David (name)
達味王	King David
達喀爾	Dakar, capital of Senegal
達嚕噶齊	Mongolian daruqachi, local commander in Mongol and Yuan times
達因	(loanword) dyne
達坂城區	Dabancheng, a district of Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
達姆彈	(loanword) dumdum bullet; expanding bullet
達孜區	Dagzê, a district of Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
達官	high-ranking official
達官貴人	(idiom) high officials and noble lords; the powerful and influential
達尼亞	Dania, Tania etc
達川區	Dachuan, a district of Dazhou City 達州市|达州市[Da2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
達州市	Dazhou, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
達德利	Dudley (name)
達悟族	Tao or Yami, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
達意	to express or convey one's ideas
達成	to reach (an agreement); to accomplish
達成協議	to reach agreement
達拉斯	Dallas
達拉特	Dalad banner in Ordos 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
達拉特旗	Dalad banner in Ordos 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
達摩	Dharma, the teaching of Buddha; Bodhidharma
達文西	Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519), Italian Renaissance painter (Tw)
達斡爾	Daur ethnic group
達斡爾族	Daur ethnic group
達斡爾語	Daur language (of Daur ethnic group of Inner Mongolia and Heilongjiang)
達日縣	Darlag, a county in Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 果洛藏族自治州[Guo3 luo4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
達朗貝爾	D'Alembert (1717-1783), French mathematician
達標	to reach a set standard
達沃斯	Davos (Swiss ski resort); Davos world economic forum (WEF)
達沃斯論壇	Davos world economic forum (WEF)
達烏里寒鴉	(bird species of China) Daurian jackdaw (Coloeus dauuricus)
達爾富爾	Darfur, region of western Sudan
達爾文	Charles Darwin (1809–1882), British biologist, author of "On the Origin of Species" 物種起源|物种起源[Wu4 zhong3 Qi3 yuan2]
達爾文主義	Darwinism
達爾文學說	Darwinism
達爾文港	Port Darwin (the port of Darwin, the capital city of the Northern Territory, Australia)
達爾罕茂明安聯合旗	Darhan Muming'an united banner in Baotou 包頭|包头[Bao1 tou2], Inner Mongolia
達爾馬提亞	Dalmatia, Croatian region on the eastern coast of Adriatic Sea
達特茅斯	Dartmouth (place name)
達特茅斯學院	Dartmouth College
達科塔·芬妮	Dakota Fanning, American actress
達累斯薩拉姆	Dar es Salaam (former capital of Tanzania)
達羅毗荼	Dravidian (general term for South Indian people and languages)
達美航空	Delta Air Lines, Inc., airline headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia
達致	to attain; to achieve
達茂旗	Darhan Muming'an united banner in Baotou 包頭|包头[Bao1 tou2], Inner Mongolia
達菲	Tamiflu
達蘭薩拉	Dharamsala in Himachal Pradesh, north India, home of Tibetan government in exile
達觀	to take things philosophically
達賴	the Dalai Lama; abbr. of 達賴喇嘛|达赖喇嘛[Da2 lai4 La3 ma5]
達賴喇嘛	Dalai Lama
達達尼爾海峽	Dardanelles Strait; Turkish: Çanakkale Boğazı
達陣	touchdown; try (sports)
達魯花赤	Mongolian daruqachi, local commander in Mongol and Yuan times
違	to disobey; to violate; to separate
違令	to disobey; to go against orders
違例	to break the rules
違信背約	in violation of contract and good faith
違傲	to disobey
違別	to leave; to depart; to go against
違利赴名	to renounce profit and seek fame (idiom); to abandon greed for reputation
違反	to violate (a law)
違反憲法	to violate the constitution
違命	disobedient; to violate the Mandate of Heaven (天命[Tian1 Ming4])
違和	unwell; indisposed; out of sorts
違天害理	lit. violating heaven and reason (idiom); immoral character
違天逆理	lit. violating heaven and reason (idiom); immoral character
違失	fault; mistake; shortcoming
違建	abbr. for 違章建築|违章建筑, illegal construction
違心	false; untrue to one's convictions; against one's will
違心之言	false assertion; speech against one's own convictions
違忤	to disobey
違恩負義	to disobey one's benefactor; to violate debts of gratitude
違悖	to transgress; to violate (the rules); same as 違背|违背
違憲	unconstitutional
違戾	to violate; to go against
違抗	to disobey
違拗	to disobey; to defy; to deliberately go against (a rule, a convention, sb's wishes etc)
違時絕俗	to defy the times and reject custom (idiom); in breach of current conventions
違標	to go against the stipulated criteria
違法	illegal; to break the law
違法亂紀	(lit.) to break the law and violate the rules (idiom)
違犯	to violate; to infringe
違礙	taboo; prohibition
違禁	to violate a prohibition or ban; prohibited; illicit
違禁品	prohibited goods; contraband
違禁藥品	illegal medicines
違章	to break the rules; to violate regulations
違章者	violator; offender
違紀	lack of discipline; to break a rule; to violate discipline
違約	to break a promise; to violate an agreement
違約金	penalty (fee)
違者	violator
違背	to go against; to be contrary to; to violate
違規	to violate the rules
違言	unreasonable words; wounding complaints
違誤	to disobey and cause delays; to obstruct and procrastinate
違逆	to disobey; to defy an edict; to violate
遘	meet unexpectedly
遙	(bound form) distant; remote; far away
遙不可及	unattainable; far-fetched; out of reach
遙想	to think about (the distant past or future)
遙感	remote sensing
遙控	to direct operations from a remote location; to remotely control
遙控器	a remote control
遙控操作	remote operation
遙控車	radio-controlled car (hobbyist's model car)
遙望	to look into the distance
遙測	telemetry
遙祝	to send good wishes from afar
遙觀	to look into the distance
遙遙	distant; remote
遙遙無期	far in the indefinite future (idiom); so far away it seems forever
遙遙領先	(idiom) a long way in front; to lead by a wide margin
遙遠	distant; remote
遛	to stroll; to walk (an animal)
遛娃	(coll.) to take one's child out for a walk
遛彎	(dialect) to take a walk; to go for a stroll
遛狗	to walk a dog
遜	to abdicate; modest; yielding
遜位	to abdicate; to resign a position
遜克縣	Xunke, a county in Heihe City 黑河市[Hei1 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
遜尼	Sunni (subdivision of Islam)
遜尼派	Sunni sect (of Islam)
遜色	inferior (often in the combination 毫無遜色|毫无逊色, not in the least inferior)
遜順	modest and obedient; unassuming
遝	abundant; mixed
遞	to hand over; to pass on; to deliver
遞交	to present; to give; to hand over
遞加	progressively increasing
遞升	to ascend progressively
遞增	to increase by degrees; in increasing order; incremental
遞嬗	(literary) to go through successive changes; to evolve
遞推	recursion; recursive (calculation); recurrence
遞推公式	recurrence formula
遞推關係	(math.) recurrence relation
遞條子	to pass a message
遞歸	recursion; recursive (calculation); recurrence
遞減	progressively decreasing; gradually falling; in descending order
遞眼色	to give sb a meaningful look
遞給	to hand it (i.e. the aforementioned item) to (sb)
遞補	to substitute; to complement in the proper order
遞解	to escort a criminal under guard (in former times)
遞質	neurotransmitter
遞送	to send (a message); to deliver
遞進	gradual progress; to go forward one stage at a time
遞降	to go down by degrees; progressively decreasing
遠	to distance oneself from (classical)
遠人	an estranged person; sb who is alienated; people far from home
遠來的和尚會念經	the monk coming from afar is good at reading scriptures (idiom)
遠光燈	high beam (headlights)
遠勞	(courteous expression) you have made a long and exhausting journey
遠古	antiquity; ancient times
遠因	indirect cause; remote cause
遠地點	apogee
遠大	far-reaching; broad; ambitious
遠大理想	lofty ideal
遠天	heaven; the distant sky
遠嫁	to marry a man who lives in a distant place
遠安縣	Yuan'an, a county in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
遠客	guest from afar
遠征	an expedition, esp. military; march to remote regions
遠征軍	expeditionary force; army on a distant expedition
遠志	far-reaching ambition; lofty ideal
遠慮	long-term considerations; to take the long view
遠房	(of a relative) distant
遠拱點	(astronomy) apoapsis
遠揚	(fame) spreads far and wide
遠方	far away; a distant location
遠方來鴻	letter from afar (literary)
遠日點	aphelion, the furthest point of a planet in elliptic orbit to the sun
遠景	scenery in the distance; long-term prospects; (photography) long shot
遠望	to gaze afar; to look into the distance
遠期	long-term; at a fixed date in the future (e.g. for repayment)
遠期合約	forward contract (finance)
遠未解決	far from solved
遠東	Far East (loanword)
遠東山雀	(bird species of China) Japanese tit (Parus minor)
遠東樹鶯	(bird species of China) Manchurian bush warbler (Horornis canturians)
遠東葦鶯	(bird species of China) Manchurian reed warbler (Acrocephalus tangorum)
遠東豹	Amur leopard (Panthera pardus orientalis)
遠水不解近渴	lit. distant water does not cure present thirst; fig. urgent need
遠水救不了近火	water in a distant place is of little use in putting out a fire right here
遠洋	distant seas; the open ocean (far from the coast)
遠涉	to cross (the wide ocean)
遠渡重洋	to travel across the oceans
遠略	long-term strategy
遠眺	to gaze into the distance
遠祖	a remote ancestor
遠程	remote; long distance; long range
遠程導彈	long distance missile
遠程登錄	to log in remotely
遠程監控	RMON; remote monitoring
遠端	the far end (of an object)
遠端工作	to telecommute; to work remotely
遠端胞漿	distal cytoplasm
遠端轉移	metastasis
遠緣	distantly related; remote affinity
遠胄	distant descendants
遠航	to travel a great distance by sea or air; voyage; long-haul flight
遠藤	Endō (Japanese surname)
遠處	distant place
遠行	to travel far away from home
遠見	foresight; discernment; vision
遠見卓識	visionary and sagacious (idiom)
遠視	farsighted; hyperopia or hypermetropia (farsightedness)
遠親	distant relative
遠親不如近鄰	A relative afar is less use than a close neighbor (idiom). Take whatever help is on hand, even from strangers.
遠謀	a long-term plan; an ambitious strategy
遠識	foresight
遠走高飛	(idiom) to go far away; to flee to a distant place
遠赴	to travel to (a distant place)
遠超	to exceed by far; to greatly surpass
遠超過	to exceed by far; to outclass
遠足	excursion; hike; march
遠距離	long-distance
遠距離監視	off-site monitoring
遠近	far and near; distance
遠近皆知	known far and wide (idiom)
遠近聞名	to be known far and wide; to be well-known
遠途	long-distance; long-haul
遠逝	to fade into the distance; (fig.) to peter out; to fade away
遠遊	to travel far; distant wanderings
遠道而來	to come from far away
遠遠	distant; by far
遠遠超過	surpassing by far
遠避	to keep at a distance; to forsake
遠郊	outer suburbs; remote outskirts of a city
遠銷	to sell to faraway lands
遠門	used in 出遠門|出远门[chu1 yuan3 men2]; (of a relative) distant
遠門近枝	near and distant relatives
遠隔千里	thousands of miles away; far away
遠離	to be far from; to keep away from
遠非如此	far from it being so (idiom)
遢	used in 邋遢[la1 ta5]; Taiwan pr. [ta4]
遣	(bound form) to dispatch; to send
遣使	to dispatch an envoy
遣悶	to dispel anguish
遣散	to disband; to dismiss; demobilization
遣散費	severance pay
遣詞	to choose one's words; wording
遣返	to repatriate (e.g. prisoners of war); to send back
遣送	to send away; to deport; to repatriate
遣送出境	to deport
遨	to make an excursion; to ramble; to travel
遨遊	to travel; to go on a tour; to roam
適	to fit; suitable; proper
適中	moderate; reasonable; conveniently situated
適人	(said of a woman) to marry (old)
適值	just at that time; as it happens; by good luck, just then
適切	apt; appropriate
適可而止	(idiom) to refrain from going too far; to know when to stop
適合	to fit; to suit
適婚	of marriageable age
適婚期	age range suitable for getting married
適存度	fitness (evolution); ability to survive and reproduce
適宜	suitable; appropriate
適度	moderately; appropriate
適得其反	to produce the opposite of the desired result
適得其所	exactly what one would wish; to find one's niche
適意	agreeable
適應	to adapt; to fit; to suit
適應性	adaptability; flexibility
適才	just now; a moment ago (often used in the early vernacular)
適時	timely; apt to the occasion; in due course
適格	to be qualified (to bring a complaint, lawsuit etc) (law)
適溫	suitable temperature; optimal temperature
適用	to be applicable
適當	suitable; appropriate
適老化	to make (products, living spaces etc) suitable for the elderly; (attributive) senior-friendly; elder-accessible
適者生存	survival of the fittest
適航	to be airworthy; to be seaworthy
適逢	to just happen to coincide with
適逢其會	(idiom) to happen to be in the right place at the right time
適配	adaptation
適配器	adapter (device)
適配層	(computing) adaptation layer
適量	appropriate amount
適銷	marketable; saleable; appropriate to the market
適間	just now; just a moment ago
適齡	of age; of the appropriate age
遫	alert; nimble; quick
遭	to suffer; to meet with (usu. misfortune)
遭到	to suffer; to meet with (sth unfortunate)
遭受	to suffer; to sustain (loss, misfortune)
遭拒	to meet with a refusal (e.g. visa); to have an application rejected
遭殃	to suffer a calamity
遭瘟	to suffer from a plague; to endure a misfortune; a plague on him!
遭罪	to endure hardship; to suffer
遭逢	to encounter (sth unpleasant)
遭遇	to meet with; to encounter (esp. misfortune or hardship)
遭遇戰	(military) encounter; skirmish
遭重	(slang) to suffer serious consequences or harm
遭際	(literary) fortunes and misfortunes; experiences in life
遭難	to run into misfortune
遮	to cover up (a shortcoming); to screen off; to hide
遮住	to cover (up); to block; to obstruct
遮天蔽日	lit. hiding the sky and covering the earth (idiom); fig. earth-shattering
遮掩	to cover; to mask; to cover up or conceal (the truth etc)
遮擋	to shelter; to shelter from
遮斷	to cut off; to interrupt; to prevent access
遮瑕膏	concealer (cosmetics)
遮目魚	milkfish (Chanos chanos)
遮羞	to cover up one's embarrassment; to hush up a scandal
遮羞布	loincloth; (fig.) fig leaf
遮蓋	to hide; to cover (one's tracks)
遮蔭	to provide shade; Taiwan pr. [zhe1yin4]
遮蔽	to cover; to hide from view; to obstruct or block
遮護板	shield; protective board
遮遮掩掩	to be secretive; to try to cover up (idiom)
遮陰	to provide shade
遮陽	to shield from the sun
遮陽板	sun visor; sunshade; sunshading board
遮風避雨	to give shelter from the wind and rain; to keep out the elements
遰	to go away; to migrate
遲	late; delayed; slow
遲了	late
遲交	to delay handing over (payment, homework etc)
遲到	to arrive late
遲延	to delay
遲慢	slow; late
遲早	sooner or later
遲暮	(literary) dusk; twilight
遲浩田	Chi Haotian (1929-), Chinese Minister of National Defense 1993-2003
遲滯	delay; procrastination
遲滯現象	hysteresis
遲疑	to hesitate
遲發性損傷	delayed lesion
遲緩	slow; sluggish
遲誤	to delay; to procrastinate
遲遲	late (with a task etc); slow
遲鈍	slow in one's reactions; sluggish (in movement or thought)
遲頓	inactive; obtuse
遴	(literary) to select
遴選	to pick; to choose; to select
遵	to observe; to obey; to follow
遵令	to obey orders
遵化市	Zunhua, a county-level city in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
遵命	to follow your orders; to do as you bid
遵奉	to conform; to obey faithfully
遵守	to comply with; to abide by; to respect (an agreement)
遵從	to comply with; to follow (directives); to defer to (the judgment of superiors)
遵循	to follow; to abide by; to comply with
遵旨	to obey the Emperor's decree; at your Imperial majesty's command
遵時養晦	to bide one's time, waiting for an opportunity to stage a comeback in public life (idiom)
遵照	in accordance with; to follow (the rules)
遵義市	Zunyi, prefecture-level city in Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
遵義會議	Zunyi conference of January 1935 before the Long March
遵行	to follow; to obey; compliance
遵辦	to handle in accordance with (the rules)
遵醫囑	to follow the doctor's advice; as instructed by the physician
遶	to spiral; to move around; to go round (an obstacle)
遷	to move; to shift; to change (a position or location etc)
遷入	to move in (to new lodging)
遷安市	Qian'an, a county-level city in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
遷就	to yield to; to adapt to; to accommodate oneself to (sth)
遷居	to move (from one residence to another)
遷居移民	immigration
遷延	long delay
遷徙	to migrate; to move
遷怒	to take one's anger out on sb (who does not deserve it)
遷怒於人	to vent one's anger on an innocent party (idiom)
遷移	to migrate; to move
遷西縣	Qianxi, a county in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
遷都	to move the capital (city)
遷離	to move away; to change residence
遷飛	to migrate (of birds)
選	to choose; to pick; to select
選中	to select; to choose; to decide on
選修	(at a school) to take as an elective; an elective; elective (subject)
選修課	optional course (in school)
選入	selected (for admission); elected
選出	to pick out; to select; to elect
選區	electoral district; constituency
選取	to choose
選召	chosen and called
選品	product selection
選單	(computing) menu
選單列	(Tw) (computing) menu bar
選址	to select a suitable site; site; location
選士	(old) to select talented scholars for government service (through exams etc)
選定	to select; to choose; to settle on
選情	the state of play in an election; the current state of a candidate's campaign
選戰	election campaign
選手	athlete; contestant
選拔	to select the best
選擇	to select; to pick; choice; option; alternative
選擇性	selective; selectiveness; selectivity
選擇題	multiple-choice question
選本	anthology; selected works
選民	voter; constituency; electorate
選民登記	voter registration
選派	to select; to detail; to set apart
選用	to choose for some purpose; to select and use
選票	a vote; ballot
選秀	to select talented individuals; (sports) draft
選秀節目	talent show; talent competition
選編	selected works (poems, documents etc); anthology
選美	beauty contest
選美比賽	beauty contest
選美皇后	beauty queen
選聽	selective listening (linguistics)
選育	seed selection; breeding
選舉	to elect; election
選舉人	voter; elector
選舉人團	Electoral College (of the United States)
選舉團	Electoral College (of the United States)
選舉委員會	Election Committee (Hong Kong)
選舉權	suffrage
選舉法庭	election court
選裝	optional (equipment)
選角	to cast actors for a film, play etc
選課	to select courses
選購	to select and purchase; to buy
選送	to select and send over
選邊站	to choose a side (in a conflict, debate or rivalry); to take sides
選錄	an excerpt; a digest
選集	anthology
選項	option; alternative; choice; to choose a project
選題	to choose a topic (for writing, research, publishing etc); chosen topic
選點	to choose an appropriate location
遹	follow; in accordance with
遺	(bound form) to leave behind
遺作	posthumous work
遺傳	heredity; to inherit (a trait); to pass on (to one's offspring)
遺傳信息	genetic information
遺傳學	genetics
遺傳工程	genetic engineering
遺傳性	hereditary; inherited; genetic
遺傳性疾病	genetic disorder
遺傳物質	genetic material
遺傳率	heritability
遺像	portrait of the deceased
遺囑	testament; will
遺址	ruins; historic relics
遺墨	posthumous (painting, calligraphy, prose etc)
遺失	to lose; to leave behind (inadvertently)
遺妻	widow
遺孀	(formal) widow
遺存	historical remains; things that have survived since ancient times
遺孤	orphan
遺害無窮	to have disastrous consequences
遺容	the looks of the deceased (esp. in the context of paying one's respects)
遺尿	bed-wetting
遺屬	surviving family of the deceased
遺志	the mission in life of a deceased person, left to others to carry on
遺忘	to forget; to cease to think about (sb or sth) anymore
遺忘症	amnesia
遺恨	eternal regret
遺憾	regret; to regret; to be sorry that
遺教	work or plans left as a legacy; the views of the departed
遺族	the bereaved; family of the deceased
遺書	posthumous writing; testament; suicide note
遺案	unsolved case (law)
遺棄	to leave; to abandon
遺民	(lit.) leftover men; (fig.) loyalist adherents of a former dynasty
遺漏	to overlook; to miss; to omit
遺照	picture of the deceased
遺物	personal effects (of the deceased); artifacts; relics; (biological) remains
遺珠	unrecognized talent
遺產	heritage; legacy; inheritance
遺產稅	inheritance tax; estate tax
遺男	orphan; posthumous son
遺留	to leave behind; to hand down
遺稿	surviving manuscript; bequeathed draft (of book)
遺精	nocturnal emission; wet dream
遺缺	vacancy
遺老	elderly loyalist of a former dynasty; former official who remains loyal after a dynastic change
遺腹子	child born after the father's death; posthumous child
遺臭萬年	to have one's name go down in history as a byword for infamy (idiom)
遺落	to leave behind (inadvertently); to forget; to omit
遺著	posthumous work (of a writer)
遺蛻	to shed skin; to leave one's mortal envelope; remains (of a priest)
遺言	words of the deceased; last words of the dying; wisdom of past sages
遺訓	moral instruction handed down by sages of the past or departed elders
遺詔	posthumous edict (of former emperor)
遺贈	to bequeath
遺跡	trace; vestige; historical remains
遺願	final wishes of the departed
遺風	tradition or style from the past; old ways; surviving tradition
遺骨	(dead) human remains
遺骸	(dead) human remains
遺體	remains (of a dead person)
遺體告別式	funeral
遺鷗	(bird species of China) relict gull (Ichthyaetus relictus)
遻	recalcitrant; to encounter
遼	short name for Liaoning 遼寧|辽宁[Liao2 ning2] province
遼中區	Liaozhong, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
遼史	History of the Liao Dynasty, twenty first of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], composed under Toktoghan 脫脫|脱脱[Tuo1 tuo1] in 1345 during the Yuan Dynasty 元[Yuan2], 116 scrolls
遼寧古盜鳥	Archaeoraptor liaoningensis (bird-like dinosaur found in Liaoning province)
遼寧大學	Liaoning University
遼寧省	Liaoning Province, capital Shenyang 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4] (short name 遼|辽[Liao2])
遼寧號	Liaoning, the first aircraft carrier commissioned into the PLA Navy (commissioned in 2012)
遼東	Liaodong peninsula between Bohai 渤海 and Yellow sea
遼東半島	Liaodong Peninsula
遼河	Liao River of northeast China, passing through Inner Mongolia, Hebei, Jilin and Liaoning
遼海	east and south of Liaoning province
遼源市	Liaoyuan, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
遼瀋戰役	Liaoshen Campaign (Sep-Nov 1948), the first of the three major campaigns by the People's Liberation Army near the end of the Chinese Civil War
遼西	west of Liaoning
遼遠	distant; faraway; remote
遼金	Liao and Jin dynasties, namely: Liao or Khitan dynasty (907-1125) and Jurchen Jin dynasty (1115-1234)
遼闊	vast; extensive
遼陽市	Liaoyang, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
遼陽縣	Liaoyang, a county in Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
遽	hurry; fast; suddenly
遽然	(literary) all of a sudden
避	to avoid; to shun; to flee
避不見面	to refuse to meet sb; to avoid sb
避世	to shun the world
避世絕俗	(idiom) to withdraw from society and live in seclusion
避免	to avert; to prevent; to avoid
避其銳氣，擊其惰歸	avoid the enemy when he is fresh and strike him when he is tired and withdraws (idiom)
避坑落井	to dodge a pit only to fall into a well (idiom)
避嫌	to avoid arousing suspicion
避孕	contraception
避孕丸	contraceptive pill
避孕套	condom
避孕環	coil; contraceptive coil; intrauterine device
避孕藥	oral contraceptive
避寒	to escape the cold by going on a winter holiday
避實就虛	(idiom) stay clear of the enemy's main force and strike at his weak points
避彈坑	foxhole
避役	chameleon
避忌	to avoid as taboo
避惡	to avoid evil
避暑	to be away for the summer holidays
避暑山莊	mountain resort
避稅	to avoid taxation; tax avoidance
避稅天堂	tax haven
避稅港	tax haven
避署	to go on summer vacation
避而不	to avoid (doing sth)
避蚊胺	DEET, an insect repellent
避諱	to avoid a taboo (usu. on the given names of emperors or one's elders)
避讓	to avoid; to yield (in traffic); to get out of the way
避邪	to avoid evil spirits
避重就輕	to avoid the important and dwell on the trivial
避開	to avoid; to evade; to keep away from
避障	(of a robot, autonomous vehicle etc) to avoid obstacles
避險	to flee from danger; to avoid danger; to minimize risk
避難	to take refuge; to seek asylum
避難所	a refuge; a haven; a sanctuary
避雨	to take shelter from the rain
避雷	(bound form) to avoid being struck by lightning
避雷器	lightning arrester
避雷針	lightning rod
避震器	shock absorber
避震鞋	cushioning shoes (Tw)
避風	to take shelter from the wind; to lie low; to stay out of trouble
避風塘	typhoon shelter (a cove where boats shelter from strong winds and rough seas, esp. in Hong Kong)
避風港	haven; refuge; harbor
避風處	lee; windstop
避風頭	to lie low (until the fuss dies down)
邀	to invite; to request; to intercept
邀功	to take the credit for sb's achievement
邀宴	to invite sb to a banquet
邀擊	to intercept; to waylay; to ambush
邀約	to invite; an invitation
邀請	to invite; invitation
邀請函	invitation letter
邀請賽	invitation tournament (e.g. between schools or firms)
邀買人心	to buy popular support; to court favor
邀集	to invite a group of people (to assemble for a gathering)
邁	to step; to stride; (bound form) old; elderly
邁克爾	(name) Michael
邁克爾·傑克遜	Michael Jackson (1958-2009), American musician and entertainer
邁克爾·克萊頓	Michael Crichton (1942-), US techno-thriller writer, author of Jurassic Park
邁克爾·喬丹	Michael Jordan (1963–) US basketball player
邁入	(fig.) to step into; to enter
邁凱伊	McKay or Mackay (name)
邁凱輪	McLaren; MacLaren
邁出	to step out; to take a (first) step
邁向	to stride toward (success); to march toward; to take a step toward
邁巴赫	Maybach, German car brand
邁步	to take a step; to step forward
邁赫迪	Mahdi or Mehdi (Arabic: Guided one), redeemer of some Islamic prophesy
邁赫迪軍	Mahdi army, Iraqi Shia armed militia led by Moqtada Sadr
邁進	to step in; to stride forward; to forge ahead
邁阿密	Miami (Florida)
邂	used in 邂逅[xie4 hou4]
邂逅	(literary) to meet sb by chance; to run into sb
邃	deep; distant; mysterious
邃古	remote antiquity
邃宇	large house that is dark and labyrinthine
邃密	deep; profound; abstruse and full (of thought)
邃戶	forbidding entrance to a large, quiet house
還	still; still in progress; still more
還不如	to be better off ...; might as well ...
還俗	to return to normal life (leaving a monastic order)
還債	to settle a debt
還價	to make a counteroffer when haggling; to bargain
還原	to restore to the original state; to reconstruct (an event)
還原乳	reconstituted milk (Tw)
還原劑	reducing agent
還原真相	to set the record straight; to clarify the facts
還原號	(music notation) natural sign, ♮
還口	to retort; to answer back
還嘴	to retort; to answer back
還報	to return a favor; to reciprocate; (literary) to report back
還好	not bad; pretty good; fortunately; luckily
還席	to offer a return banquet
還手	to hit back; to retaliate
還擊	to hit back; to return fire
還是	still (as before); had better; unexpectedly
還書	return books
還有	there still remain(s); there is (or are) still; in addition
還本	to repay capital
還款	repayment; to pay back money
還清	to pay back in full; to redeem a debt
還禮	to return a politeness; to present a gift in return
還給	to return sth to sb
還給老師	to forget (everything one has learned)
還貸	to repay a loan
還賬	to settle and account
還鄉	(literary) to return to one's native place
還鄉女	(Korean term) women who returned to Korea after being abducted during the Manchu invasions of Korea in the 17th century, only to be regarded as defiled and therefore ostracized, even by their own families
還陽	to come back to life (after death)
還願	to redeem a vow (to a deity); to fulfill a promise; votive
還魂	to return from the grave; (old) to recycle (waste products)
還魂紙	recycled paper
邅	not making progress
邆	(used in place names)
邇	recently; near; close
邇來	recently; until now; up to the present
邈	profound; remote
邈冥冥	far off; distant
邈然	distant; remote
邈邈	far away; remote
邊	suffix of a noun of locality
邊兒	side; edge; margin
邊區	border area
邊卡	border checkpoint
邊地	border district; borderland
邊城	border town; remote town
邊塞	frontier fortress
邊境	frontier; border
邊境地區	border area
邊境衝突	border clash
邊壩縣	Banbar, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
邊寨	frontier stockade
邊幅	fringes of cloth; (fig.) one's dress; one's appearance
邊幣	Border Region currency, issued by the Communist Border Region governments during the War against Japan and the War of Liberation
邊庭	bodies governing a border area
邊廂	side; side-room; room in the wings
邊患	foreign invasion; disaster on border due to incursion
邊控	border control (abbr. for 邊境控制|边境控制[bian1 jing4 kong4 zhi4])
邊材	sapwood (between vascular cambium and pith inside growing wood)
邊框	frame; rim
邊檢	border inspection; immigration inspection
邊民	people living on the frontiers; inhabitants of a border area
邊沁	Jeremy Bentham (1748-1832), English philosopher, jurist, and social reformer
邊沿	edge; fringe
邊牧	border collie (dog breed)
邊界	boundary; border
邊界層	boundary layer
邊界線	boundary line; border line
邊疆	border area; borderland; frontier
邊疆區	krai (Russian administrative territory)
邊窗	side window
邊線	sideline; foul line
邊緣	edge; fringe; verge; brink; periphery; marginal; borderline
邊緣人	marginalized people (not part of mainstream society)
邊緣化	to marginalize; marginalization
邊緣地區	border area
邊緣性人格障礙	borderline personality disorder (BPD)
邊緣系統	limbic system
邊聲	outlandish sounds (wind blowing on frontier, wild horses neighing etc)
邊裔	remote area; distant marches
邊角	edges and corners
邊角料	scrap; bits and pieces left over
邊角案例	(engineering) corner case
邊路	sidewalk; side road; shoulder (of a road)
邊遠	far from the center; remote; outlying
邊鄙	remote; border area
邊釁	clash on the frontier; border conflict
邊鋒	winger (in soccer or hockey)
邊長	(geometry) side length
邊門	side door; wicket door
邊關	border station; strategic defensive position on frontier
邊防	frontier defense
邊防站	border station; frontier post
邊防警察	border police
邊防軍	border guard; frontier army
邊陲	border area; frontier
邊際	limit; bound; boundary
邊際報酬	marginal returns
邊際成本	marginal cost
邊音	lateral consonant (phonetics)
邊頭	the end; border; just before the end
邋	used in 邋遢[la1 ta5]
邋裡邋遢	messy; slovenly; unkempt
邋遢	unkempt
邏	patrol
邏各斯	(loanword) (philosophy) logos
邏輯	(loanword) logic
邏輯學	logic
邏輯演算	logical calculation
邏輯炸彈	logic bomb
邏輯錯誤	logical error
邏輯鏈路控制	logical link control; LLC
邏輯門	logic gate
邐	winding
邑	city; village
邕	Yong River (Guangxi); short name for Nanning (Guangxi)
邕寧區	Yongning, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
邗	name of an ancient river
邗江區	Hanjiang, a district of Yangzhou City 揚州市|扬州市[Yang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
邘	surname Yu
邙	Mt Mang at Luoyang in Henan, with many Han, Wei and Jin dynasty royal tombs
邙山	Mt Mang at Luoyang in Henan, with many Han, Wei and Jin dynasty royal tombs
邙山行	a form of Yuefu 樂府|乐府 mourning song or elegy
邛	mound; place name
邛崍山	Qionglai Mountains in western Sichuan between the Min 岷江[Min2 Jiang1] and Dadu 大渡河[Da4 du4 He2] rivers
邛崍山脈	Qionglai mountains on the boundary of the Sichuan basin 四川盆地
邛崍市	Qionglai, a county-level city in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
邡	used in 什邡[Shi2 fang1] (the name of a place in Sichuan)
邢	surname Xing; place name
邢臺市	Xingtai, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
那	(specifier) that; the; those (colloquial pr. [nei4])
那不勒斯	Napoli, capital of Campania region of Italy; Naples
那不勒斯王國	Kingdom of Naples (1282-1860)
那世	the world of the dead
那些	those
那個	that one; that thing; that (as opposed to this)
那個人	lit. that person; fig. the person you have been looking for; Mr Right
那倒是	Oh that's true! (interjection of sudden realization)
那兒	there
那古屋	Nagoya, city in Japan (old spelling)
那咱	at that time (old)
那坡縣	Napo, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
那堤	(Tw) (loanword) latte
那天	that day; the other day
那廝	that so-and-so
那拉提草原	Nalat grasslands
那提	(loanword) latte
那摩溫	foreman (pidgin derived from "number one", rendered in hanzi) (old)
那斯達克	(Tw) Nasdaq (stock exchange)
那是	(coll.) of course; naturally; indeed
那時	then; at that time; in those days
那時候	at that time
那曲市	Nagqu, prefecture-level city in Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
那會兒	at that time (in the past or the future); also pr. [nei4 hui4 r5]
那木巴爾·恩赫巴亞爾	Nambaryn Enkhbayar (1958-), Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party politician, president of Mongolia 2005-2009
那樣	that kind; that sort
那種	that kind of
那空沙旺	Paknampho city, Thailand
那維克	Narvik (city in Nordland, Norway)
那裏	there; that place
那裡	there; that place
那話兒	(coll.) that thing; that matter; you-know-what
那達慕	Nadam or Games, Mongolian national harvest festival in July-August
那還用説	that goes without saying
那邊	over there; yonder
那陣	at that time; then
那陣子	at that time; then
那鴻書	Book of Nahum
那麼	like that; in that way; to that extent
那麼著	(do sth) that way; like that
邦	(bound form) country; nation; state
邦交	relations between two countries; diplomatic relations
邦交國	country with which diplomatic relations are maintained
邦國	country; state
邦德	Bond (name)
邦硬	very hard or stiff
邦聯	confederation
邦迪	Bondi (name); Band-Aid (loanword)
邧	place name
邨	surname Cun
邪	demonic; iniquitous; nefarious
邪不敵正	good will always triumph over evil (idiom)
邪乎	extraordinary; severe; exaggerated
邪修	(slang) to achieve a goal using an unconventional but highly effective method
邪僻	abnormal; improper; beyond the pale
邪典電影	cult film
邪念	wicked idea; evil thought; evil desire
邪惡	sinister; vicious; wicked
邪惡軸心	the Axis of Evil
邪招	clever move from out of left field
邪教	evil cult
邪氣	evil influence; unhealthy trend; (a person's) evil air
邪知邪見	false wisdom and erroneous views (Buddhism)
邪祟	evil spirit
邪蕩	obscene
邪術	sorcery
邪說	harmful teachings; evil doctrine
邪財	windfall; easy money; ill-gotten gains
邪路	deviant path; evil ways
邪門	strange; unusual; evil ways
邪門歪道	lit. devil's gate, crooked path (idiom); corrupt practices
邪靈	evil spirits
邪魔	evil spirit
邯	used in 邯鄲|邯郸[Han2 dan1] (the name of a place in Hebei)
邯山區	Hanshan, a district of Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
邯鄲學步	to copy the way they walk in Handan (idiom)
邯鄲市	Handan, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
邰	surname Tai; name of a feudal state
邱	surname Qiu
邱吉爾	Winston Churchill (1874–1965), UK politican and prime minister 1940–1945 and 1951–1955
邱比特	(Tw) variant of 丘比特[Qiu1 bi3 te4]
邱縣	Qiu County or Qiuxian, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
邲	surname Bi; ancient place name
邳	surname Pi; Han dynasty county in present-day Jiangsu; also pr. [Pei2]
邳州市	Pizhou, a county-level city in Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
邳縣	Pi county in Jiangsu
邴	ancient city name; happy
邵	surname Shao; place name
邵伯湖	Shaobo Lake, freshwater lake in Jiangsu Province
邵族	Thao, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
邵東市	Shaodong, a county-level city in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
邵武市	Shaowu, a county-level city in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
邵逸夫	Run Run Shaw (1907-2014), Hong Kong movie and television tycoon
邵陽市	Shaoyang, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
邵陽縣	Shaoyang, a county in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
邵雍	Shao Yong (1011-1077), Northern Song poet and Rationalist scholar 理學家|理学家
邵飄萍	Shao Piaoping (1884-1926), pioneer of journalism and founder of newspaper Beijing Press 京報|京报, executed in 1926 by warlord Zhang Zuolin 張作霖|张作霖
邶	name of a feudal state
邷	old place name
邷麼兒	to play knucklebones (dialect)
邸	(bound form) residence of a high-ranking official
邸報	imperial bulletin, palace report dating back to Han dynasty
邽	surname Gui; ancient place name
邾	name of a feudal state
邿	place name
郁	(bound form) strongly fragrant
郁達夫	Yu Dafu (1896-1945), poet and novelist
郃	name of a person
郄	surname Qie
郅	extremely; very
郅隆	prosperous
郇	name of a feudal state
郇山隱修會	Priory of Zion (fictional masonic order)
郈	surname Hou; place name
郊	suburbs; outskirts
郊區	Jiao District or Jiaoqu, a district of Tongling City 銅陵市|铜陵市[Tong2 ling2 Shi4], Anhui
郊外	outskirts
郊狼	coyote (Canis latrans)
郊祀	pair of annual sacrificial ceremonies held by the emperor in ancient times: one in the southern suburbs of the capital (bringing offerings to Heaven) and another in the northern suburbs (with offerings to Earth)
郊遊	to go for an outing; to go on an excursion
郊野	open area outside the city; countryside
郎	(arch.) minister; official; noun prefix denoting function or status
郎世寧	Giuseppe Castiglione (1688–1766), Jesuit missionary and artist who served as a painter in the Qing court for 50 years
郎中	doctor (Chinese medicine); ancient official title
郎之萬	Langevin (name)
郎君	my husband and master (archaic); playboy of rich family; pimp
郎平	Jenny Lang Ping (1960–), Chinese former volleyball player and coach
郎才女貌	talented man and beautiful woman; ideal couple
郎朗	Lang Lang (1982-), Chinese concert pianist
郎溪縣	Langxi, a county in Xuancheng City 宣城市[Xuan1 cheng2 Shi4], Anhui
郎肯循環	Rankine cycle (engineering)
郎貓	(coll.) tomcat
郔	(place name)
郕	surname Cheng; Zhou Dynasty (1046–256 BCE) vassal state
郗	surname Chi; name of an ancient city
郙	ancient place name
郚	place name
郛	suburbs
郜	surname Gao; name of a feudal state
郝	ancient place name; surname Hao
郝海東	Hao Haidong (1970-), former Chinese soccer player
郟	used in 郟縣|郏县[Jia2 Xian4] (the name of a place in Henan)
郟縣	Jia County or Jiaxian, a county in Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
郠	(place name)
郡	canton; county; region
郡守	senior provincial official in imperial China
郡會	county capital
郡望	choronym (a family's region of origin, used as an indicator of superior social status in a surname-choronym combination) (For example, the Tang writer Han Yu 韓愈|韩愈[Han2 Yu4] is also known as 韓昌黎|韩昌黎[Han2 Chang1 li2], where 韓|韩[Han2] is his surname and 昌黎[Chang1 li2] is his clan's ancestral prefecture 郡[jun4].)
郡治	seat of the principal county magistrate in imperial China
郡治安官	sheriff
郢	Ying, ancient capital of Chu 楚 in Hubei, Jianling county 江陵縣|江陵县
郢書燕說	lit. Ying writes a letter and Yan reads it
郤	surname Xi
部	ministry; department; section
部下	troops under one's command; subordinate
部件	part; component
部位	part (esp. of the body, but also of a vegetable, e.g. the root, or a garment, e.g. the sleeve, etc)
部分	part; portion; piece; Taiwan pr. [bu4fen4]
部分工時	(Tw) part-time work
部委	ministries and commissions
部屬	troops under one's command; subordinate; affiliated to a ministry
部族	tribe; clan
部署	to dispose; to deploy; deployment
部落	tribe
部落客	blogger (Tw)
部落格	blog (loanword) (Tw)
部衆	troops
部長	head of a (government etc) department; section chief; section head
部長會	minister level conference
部長會議	minister level conference
部長級	ministerial level (e.g. negotiations)
部長級會議	minister level conference
部門	department; branch; section
部隊	army; armed forces; troops
部隊鍋	budae jjigae, a type of Korean stew
部頭	length of a book
部類	category; division
部首	radical of a Chinese character
部首編排法	dictionary arrangement of Chinese characters under radicals
郪	name of a river; place name
郫	place name
郫縣	Pi County, established during the Qin dynasty after the conquest of the ancient Shu Kingdom, historically known for its cultural heritage, strategic location, and culinary contributions, administratively reorganized in 2016 as Pidu District 郫都區|郫都区[Pi2 du1 Qu1], a suburban district of Chengdu, Sichuan
郫都區	Pidu, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
郭	outer city wall
郭台銘	Guo "Terry" Taiming (1950-), prominent Taiwanese businessman, founder of Foxconn
郭城	outer city wall
郭子儀	Guo Ziyi (697–781), Tang dynasty general who helped suppress the An Lushan Rebellion and served multiple emperors
郭小川	Guo Xiaochuan (1919-1976), PRC communist poet, hero in the war with Japan, died after long persecution during Cultural Revolution
郭居靜	Lazzaro Cattaneo (1560-1640), Italian Jesuit missionary in China
郭嵩燾	Guo Songtao (1818–1891), Chinese statesman and diplomat, served as minister to Britain and minister to France 1877–1879
郭敬明	Guo Jingming (1983-), Chinese young-adult fiction writer and teen pop idol
郭晶晶	Guo Jingjing (1981-), Chinese female diver and Olympic gold medalist
郭永懷	Guo Yonghuai (1909-1968), Chinese aviation pioneer
郭沫若	Guo Moruo (1892-1978), writer, communist party intellectual and cultural apparatchik
郭泉	Guo Quan, formerly Professor of Nanjing Normal University, sacked after founding New People's Party of China 中國新民黨|中国新民党
郭茂倩	Guo Maoqian (11th century), Song dynasty editor of the Collection of Yuefu Songs and Ballads 樂府詩集|乐府诗集[Yue4 fu3 Shi1 ji2]
郯	surname Tan; name of an ancient city
郯城縣	Tancheng, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
郰	birthplace of Confucius in Shandong
郲	name of a country in Spring and Autumn period in modern Shandong, destroyed by Qi 齊|齐
郳	place name
郴	used in 郴州[Chen1 zhou1] (the name of a place in Hunan)
郴州市	Chenzhou, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
郵	post (office); mail
郵亭	postal kiosk; (old) rest shelter for couriers
郵件	mail; post; email
郵務士	mailman (Tw)
郵包	postal parcel; parcel
郵匯	to remit by post; remittance sent by post
郵區	postal district
郵品	items issued by a postal service and collected by philatelists (stamps, postcards, first day covers etc)
郵報	Post (in the name of a newspaper)
郵寄	to mail; to send by post
郵局	post office
郵展	philatelic exhibition
郵差	postman; mailman (dated in mainland China)
郵市	philatelic market
郵戳	postmark
郵摺	(philately) presentation pack; stamp folder
郵政	postal service; postal
郵政信箱	post office box
郵政區碼	PRC postcode, e.g. 361000 for Xiamen or Amoy 廈門|厦门[Xia4 men2], Fujian
郵政局	post office
郵政式拼音	Chinese postal romanization, developed in the early 1900s, used until the 1980s
郵政編碼	postal code; zip code
郵票	(postage) stamp
郵筒	mailbox; pillar box; (old) letter
郵箱	mailbox; post office box; email
郵簡	letter sheet (similar to an aerogram but not necessarily sent by airmail)
郵編	postal code; zip code
郵船	mailboat; ocean liner
郵花	(dialect) (postage) stamp
郵袋	mailbag
郵費	postage
郵資	postage
郵購	to purchase by mail; to mail-order
郵車	mail van; mail coach
郵輪	ocean liner; cruise liner
郵迷	stamp collector; philatelist
郵遞	to mail; to deliver (through the post)
郵遞區號	(Tw) postal code; ZIP code
郵遞員	mailman
郵電	post and telecommunications
郹	place name
都	all; both; entirely; (used for emphasis) even; already
都什麼年代了	What decade are you living in?; That's so out-of-date!
都勻市	Duyun, a county-level city in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
都城	capital city
都安瑤族自治縣	Du'an Yao Autonomous County, in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
都察院	(Ming and Qing dynasties) Censorate, a body overseeing officials and investigating corruption
都尉	military rank
都市	city; metropolis
都市傳奇	urban legend (translation of recent Western term)
都市傳說	urban legend; urban myth
都市化	to urbanize
都市病	lifestyle diseases
都拉斯	Durrës (city in Albania)
都昌縣	Duchang, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
都更案	urban development project
都會	city; metropolis
都會傳奇	urban legend (translation of recent Western term)
都柏林	Dublin, capital of Ireland
都江堰	Dujiangyan in Sichuan, a famous water engineering project and World Heritage Site
都江堰市	Dujiangyan, a county-level city in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
都督	(army) commander-in-chief (archaic)
都蘭縣	Dulan, a county in Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
都護	(old) highest administrative post in border areas; governor of a march
都鐸王朝	Tudor Dynasty, ruled England 1485-1603
都靈	Torino; Turin (Italy)
都龐嶺	Dupang mountain range between south Hunan and Guangdong
郾	used in 郾城[Yan3 cheng2] (the name of a place in Henan)
郾城區	Yancheng, a district of Luohe City 漯河市[Luo4 he2 Shi4], Henan
郿	ancient place name
鄀	place name
鄂	surname E; short name for Hubei 湖北[Hu2 bei3]
鄂倫春	Oroqen ethnic group
鄂倫春族	Oroqen ethnic group
鄂倫春自治旗	Oroqin Autonomous Banner in Hulunbuir 呼倫貝爾|呼伦贝尔[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3], Inner Mongolia
鄂圖曼帝國	Ottoman Empire (Tw)
鄂城區	Echeng, a district of Ezhou City 鄂州市[E4 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
鄂州市	Ezhou, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
鄂托克	Otog banner or Otgiin khoshuu in Ordos 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
鄂托克前旗	Otog Front banner or Otgiin Ömnöd khoshuu in Ordos 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
鄂托克旗	Otog banner or Otgiin khoshuu in Ordos 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
鄂溫克	Evenki ethnic group
鄂溫克族	Evenki ethnic group
鄂溫克族自治旗	Evenk Autonomous Banner in Hulunbuir 呼倫貝爾|呼伦贝尔[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3], Inner Mongolia
鄂溫克語	Ewenke language (of Ewenke ethnic group of Inner Mongolia)
鄂爾多斯市	Ordos, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
鄂爾多斯沙漠	Ordos Desert, Inner Mongolia
鄂爾多斯高原	Ordos Plateau, Inner Mongolia
鄂霍次克海	Sea of Okhotsk
鄄	used in 鄄城[Juan4 cheng2] (the name of a place in Shandong)
鄄城縣	Juancheng, a county in Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
鄅	Yu, Zhou Dynasty vassal state, in present-day Linyi 臨沂|临沂[Lin2 yi2], Shandong
鄆	used in 鄆城|郓城[Yun4 cheng2] (the name of a place in Shandong)
鄆城縣	Yuncheng, a county in Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
鄇	place name
鄈	place name
鄉	country or countryside; native place; home village or town
鄉下	countryside; rural area
鄉下人	country folk; rustic; rural folk
鄉下佬	villager; hick
鄉下習氣	country manners; provincialism
鄉人	villager; fellow villager
鄉僻	far from town; out-of-the-way place
鄉土	native soil; one's native land; one's hometown
鄉城縣	Xiangcheng, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
鄉寧縣	Xiangning, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
鄉巴佬	(derog.) country bumpkin; hick
鄉情	homesickness
鄉愁	homesickness; nostalgia
鄉愿	(literary) hypocrite; two-faced person
鄉戚	a relative; a family member
鄉曲	remote village
鄉村	rustic; village; countryside
鄉村奶酪	cottage cheese
鄉村醫生	village doctor (Chinese health care system)
鄉村音樂	country music (country & western music genre)
鄉梓	(literary) hometown; native place
鄉民	villager
鄉氣	rustic; uncouth; unsophisticated
鄉紳	a scholar or government official living in one's village
鄉親	person from one's hometown or home region; local people; folks
鄉試	the triennial provincial imperial exam during the Ming and Qing
鄉談	local dialect
鄉貫	one's native place; place of ancestry; registered birthplace
鄉郊	(HK) rural area on the outskirts of a town or city; rural-urban fringe
鄉鄰	fellow villager
鄉醫	abbr. of 鄉村醫生|乡村医生[xiang1 cun1 yi1 sheng1]
鄉里	one's home town or village
鄉鎮	townships and towns (collective term for the two principal township-level administrative divisions)
鄉長	village chief; mayor (of village or township)
鄉間	in the country; rural; pastoral
鄉音	local accent; accent of one's native place
鄉黨	(Shaanxi dialect) person from one's hometown or home region
鄋瞞	name of a state and its people in Shangdong in late Spring and Autumn period
鄍	place name
鄎	place name
鄏	place name
鄐	surname Chu
鄑	place name
鄒	surname Zou
鄒城市	Zoucheng, a county-level city in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
鄒容	Zou Rong (1885-1905), a martyr of the anti-Qing revolution, died in jail in 1905
鄒平市	Zouping, a county-level city in Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
鄒族	Tsou or Cou, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
鄒縣	Zou county in Shandong
鄒衍	Zou Yan (305-240 BC), founder of the School of Yin-Yang of the Warring States Period (475-221 BC)
鄒韜奮	Zou Taofen (1895-1944), journalist, political theorist and publisher
鄔	surname Wu; ancient place name
鄕	country; village
鄖	name of a feudal state
鄖西縣	Yunxi, a county in Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
鄖陽區	Yunyang, a district of Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
鄗	ancient place name
鄘	surname Yong; name of a feudal state
鄙	rustic; low; base
鄙人	your humble servant; I
鄙俗	vulgar; philistine
鄙俚	vulgar; philistine
鄙劣	base; mean; despicable
鄙吝	vulgar; stingy; miserly; mean
鄙夷	to despise; to look down on; to feel contempt for
鄙斥	(literary) to censure; to rebuke
鄙棄	to disdain; to loathe
鄙稱	derogatory term
鄙薄	to despise; to scorn
鄙褻	vulgar; disrespectful
鄙見	(my) humble opinion; humble idea
鄙視	to despise; to disdain; to look down upon
鄙視鏈	a ranking of items in a particular category, with the most highly regarded on top (neologism c. 2012, coined by analogy with 食物鏈|食物链[shi2 wu4 lian4], food chain)
鄙賤	lowly; despicable; to despise
鄙陋	superficial; shallow
鄚	surname Mo
鄜	name of a district in Shaanxi
鄞	used in 鄞州[Yin2 zhou1] (the name of a place in Zhejiang)
鄞州區	Yinzhou, a district of Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
鄠	used in 鄠邑[Hu4 yi4] (the name of a place in Shaanxi)
鄠邑區	Huyi, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
鄢	used in 鄢陵[Yan1 ling2] (the name of a place in Henan)
鄢陵縣	Yanling, a county in Xuchang City 許昌市|许昌市[Xu3 chang1 Shi4], Henan
鄣	place name
鄤	place name
鄦	surname Xu; vassal state during the Zhou Dynasty (1046–221 BC)
鄧	surname Deng
鄧世昌	Deng Shichang (1849-1894), Qing dynasty naval specialist, founded naval dockyards and two naval colleges, died heroically in action against the Japanese
鄧亞萍	Deng Yaping (1973-), table tennis player, several times world and Olympic winner
鄧亮洪	Tang Liang Hong (opposition candidate in Jan 1996 Singapore elections)
鄧加	Dunga (1963-), former Brazilian soccer player
鄧小平	Deng Xiaoping (1904-1997), Chinese communist leader, de facto leader of PRC 1978-1990 and creator of "socialism with Chinese characteristics"
鄧小平理論	Deng Xiaoping Theory; Dengism
鄧州市	Dengzhou, a county-level city in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
鄧拓	Deng Tuo (1912-1966), sociologist and journalist, died under persecution at the start of the Cultural Revolution
鄧析	Deng Xi (545-501 BC), Chinese philosopher and rhetorician, the first lawyer of ancient China
鄧穎超	Deng Yingchao (1904-1992), Chinese communist leader, wife of Zhou Enlai 周恩來|周恩来
鄧紫棋	G.E.M. (1991-), Chinese pop star
鄧迪	Dundee, Scotland
鄧通	Deng Tong (2nd c. BC), one of the wealthiest Former Han Dynasty 前漢|前汉[Qian2 Han4] officials
鄧麗君	Teresa Teng (1953–1995), Taiwanese singer
鄩	surname Xun; place name; Taiwan pr. [Xin2]
鄫	surname Zeng; Zhou vassal state; also pr. [Ceng2]
鄬	place in Henan province
鄭	Zheng, a Zhou-dynasty state in the vicinity of present-day Xinzheng 新鄭|新郑[Xin1 zheng4], a county-level city in Henan
鄭人爭年	Men of Zheng fighting over their respective ages (idiom)
鄭人買履	(lit.) the person from Zheng 鄭|郑[Zheng4] who wanted to buy shoes (an allusion to an ancient story about somebody who, when buying a pair of shoes, preferred to rely on their foot measurements rather than just trying them on) (idiom)
鄭伊健	Ekin Cheng (1967-), Hong Kong actor and pop singer
鄭光祖	Zheng Guangzu, Yuan dynasty dramatist in the 雜劇|杂剧 tradition of musical comedy, one of the Four Great Yuan dramatists 元曲四大家
鄭和	Zheng He (1371-1433), famous early Ming dynasty admiral and explorer
鄭國渠	Zhengguo canal, a 150 km long irrigation canal in Shaanxi built in 264 BC
鄭夢準	Chung Mongjoon (1951-), Korean magnate and the founder of Hyundai 現代|现代[Xian4 dai4]
鄭州大學	Zhengzhou University
鄭州市	Zhengzhou, prefecture-level city and capital of Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
鄭幸娟	Zheng Xingjuan (1989–), Chinese female high jumper
鄭成功	Koxinga (1624-1662), military leader
鄭易里	Zheng Yili (1906-2002), translator, editor and lexicographer, creator of the Zheng coding
鄭玄	Zheng Xuan (127-200), late Han scholar
鄭碼	Zheng coding
鄭聲	folk music of the state of Zheng 鄭|郑[Zheng4]
鄭裕玲	Carol "Dodo" Cheng Yu-Ling (1957-), Hong Kong actress and TV host
鄭重	serious; solemn; earnest
鄭重其事	serious about the matter
鄮	ancient place name
鄯	used in 鄯善[Shan4 shan4] (the name of a place in Xinjiang)
鄯善縣	Shanshan, a county in Turpan City 吐魯番市|吐鲁番市[Tu3 lu3 fan1 Shi4], Xinjiang
鄰	neighbor; adjacent; close to
鄰人	neighbor
鄰區	neighborhood; vicinity
鄰右	neighbor
鄰國	neighboring country
鄰域	(math.) neighborhood (in a topological space)
鄰家	next-door neighbor; neighboring household
鄰居	neighbor
鄰左	neighbor
鄰座	adjacent seat; the person in an adjacent seat
鄰接	adjacent; next to
鄰水縣	Linshui, a county in Guang'an City 廣安市|广安市[Guang3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
鄰睦	to be on friendly terms
鄰舍	neighbor; person next door
鄰苯二甲酸酯	phthalate (chemistry)
鄰苯醌	1,2-benzoquinone (chemistry); ortho-benzoquinone
鄰近	neighboring; adjacent; near
鄰邦	neighboring country
鄰里	neighbor; neighborhood
鄱	name of a lake
鄱陽湖	Poyang Lake in Shangrao 上饒|上饶[Shang4 rao2], Jiangxi
鄱陽縣	Poyang, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
鄲	used in place names 邯鄲|邯郸[Han2 dan1] (historically, a county in Hebei, now a city) and 鄲城|郸城[Dan1 cheng2] (a county in Henan)
鄲城縣	Dancheng, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
鄴	surname Ye; ancient district in present-day Hebei 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
鄵	ancient place name (between present-day Xinzheng County 新鄭|新郑[Xin1 zheng4] and Lushan County 魯山|鲁山[Lu3 shan1], Henan)
鄶	surname Kuai; name of a feudal state
鄹	name of a state; surname Zou
鄺	surname Kuang
鄻	place name
鄾	place name
鄿	(herb); place name
酃	name of a district in Hunan
酃縣	Ling county in Hunan
酅	place name
酆	Zhou Dynasty capital; surname Feng
酆都	Fengdu county Chongqing municipality; name of a famous necropolis
酇	group of 100 families; place name
酈	surname Li; ancient place name
酉	10th earthly branch: 5-7 p.m., 8th solar month (8th September-7th October), year of the Rooster
酉時	5-7 pm (in the system of two-hour subdivisions used in former times)
酉牌時分	5-7 pm
酉陽	Youyang Tujia and Miao Autonomous County in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
酉陽土家族苗族自治縣	Youyang Tujia and Miao Autonomous County in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
酉陽縣	Youyang Tujia and Miao Autonomous County in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
酉雞	Year 10, year of the Cock (e.g. 2005)
酊	used in 酩酊[ming3 ding3]
酊劑	tincture
酋	tribal chief
酋長	headman (of primitive people); tribal chief
酋長國	Emirate; Sheikdom; used as translation for country under a chief
酌	to pour wine; to drink wine; to deliberate
酌予	to give as one sees fit
酌加	to make considered additions
酌奪	to make a considered decision
酌定	to decide after intense deliberation
酌情	to use discretion; to take circumstances into account
酌情辦理	to act after full consideration of the actual situation
酌收	to charge different prices according to the situation
酌核	to verify after consultation
酌減	to make considered reductions; discretionary reduction
酌滿	to fill up (a wine glass) to the brim
酌獻	to honor a deity with wine
酌處	to use one's own discretion
酌處權	discretion; discretionary power
酌裁	to consider and decide
酌議	to consider and discuss
酌辦	to do as one thinks fit
酌酒	to pour wine
酌量	to consider; to allow for; to use one's discretion
配	to join; to fit; to mate
配件	component; part; fitting
配件掛勾	accessory hook
配伍	to blend two or more medicines
配偶	spouse
配備	to allocate; to provide; to outfit with
配價	(linguistics) valence; valency
配合	matching; fitting in with; compatible with
配售	to ration merchandise (esp. food in times of shortages)
配型	to check for compatibility (for an organ transplant)
配套	to form a complete set; compatible; matching
配子	gamete
配對	to pair up; to match up; to form a pair (e.g. to marry)
配對兒	matched pair
配屬	troops attached to a unit
配戴	to put on; to wear (mouthguard, contact lenses, hearing aid etc)
配接卡	adapter (device)
配料	ingredients (in a cooking recipe)
配方	prescription; cooking recipe; formulation
配方奶	formula (milk)
配方法	completing the square (method of solving quadratic equation, math.)
配有	to be equipped with; to come with (sth)
配槍	to equip with a gun; to be issued a gun; duty firearm; service gun
配樂	to create music for a movie or stage production
配比	to mix ingredients in the appropriate proportions
配用	to provide; installed
配發	to issue; to distribute; to publish along with
配眼鏡	to have a pair of prescription glasses made
配種	to breed; mating
配稱	worthy
配筋	rebar (construction)
配給	to ration; to allocate
配置	to deploy; to allocate; configuration
配色	to coordinate colors
配菜	side dish
配藥	to dispense (drugs); to prescribe
配補	to replace (sth missing); to restore
配裝	to install; to fit; to load goods (on ships etc)
配製	to compound (medicines etc); to prepare (by mixing ingredients)
配角	supporting role; minor role; (of actors) to perform together
配貨	to put together an order of goods
配載	cargo stowage (shipping)
配送	to put together an order and deliver it (i.e. 配貨|配货[pei4 huo4] and 送貨|送货[song4 huo4])
配送地址	delivery address
配送者	distributor
配速	(loanword) pace (when running)
配速員	(sports) pacemaker; pacesetter (in long-distance running)
配重	bobweight; (diving) weight
配銷	distribution (of goods for sale)
配鏡	to dispense or fit eyewear based on an optical prescription
配鏡人員	optician
配鏡師	optician
配鑰匙	to make a key
配電器	distributor (automobile)
配電櫃	power cabinet; switch box
配電站	power distribution substation
配音	dubbing (filmmaking)
配額	quota; ration
配飾	ornament (jewelry, accoutrements etc); decorations
配餐	catering
配體	ligand
酎	strong wine
酏	elixirs; sweet wine
酐	anhydride
酒	wine (esp. rice wine); liquor; spirits
酒不醉人人自醉，色不迷人人自迷	wine doesn't make men drunk: men get themselves intoxicated. Lust does not overpower men: men surrender themselves to lust
酒井	Sakai (Japanese surname)
酒令	wine-drinking game
酒伴	drinking buddy
酒保	barman; bartender
酒具	wine vessel; wine cup
酒刺	acne
酒力	capacity for alcohol; ability to hold drink
酒友	drinking buddy
酒吧	bar (place to buy drinks)
酒味	smell of alcohol; flavoring of rum or other liquor in food
酒單	wine list (in a restaurant etc)
酒器	drinking vessel; wine cup
酒囊飯袋	wine sack, food bag (idiom); useless person, only fit for guzzling and boozing
酒壺	wine pot; wine cup
酒宴	feast; banquet
酒家	restaurant; bartender; (old) wineshop
酒局	social occasion centered on alcohol; drinking party; drinking session
酒帘	wine shop sign
酒席	feast; banquet
酒店	wine shop; pub (public house); hotel
酒店業	the catering industry; the hotel and restaurant business
酒廊	bar
酒廠	wine factory; distillery
酒後	after drinking; under the influence of alcohol
酒後吐真言	after wine, spit out the truth; in vino veritas
酒後駕車	driving under the influence
酒後駕駛	driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI)
酒徒	drunkard
酒德	good manners in drinking; drinking as personality test
酒意	tipsy feeling
酒托	person hired to lure customers to high-priced bars
酒托女	woman hired to lure men to high-priced bars
酒會	drinking party; wine reception
酒杯	wine cup
酒桌文化	drinking culture
酒棗	dates in liquor
酒樓	restaurant
酒櫃	liquor cabinet
酒殽	wine and meat; food and drink
酒水	alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages (e.g. on a menu)
酒水飲料	drink (on a menu)
酒池肉林	lakes of wine and forests of meat (idiom); debauchery
酒泉市	Jiuquan, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
酒渣鼻	rosacea (dermatological condition of the face and nose); brandy nose
酒測	to take a breathalyzer test
酒漿	wine
酒癮	alcohol addiction
酒盅	wine cup; goblet
酒石酸	tartaric acid
酒神	Bacchus (the Greek god of wine), aka Dionysus
酒窖	wine cellar
酒窩	dimple (on the cheek when smiling)
酒筵	feast; banquet
酒籌	drinking game chips (typically in the form of strips of bamboo inscribed with lines of poetry)
酒精	(coll.) ethanol; ethyl alcohol
酒精中毒	alcoholism; alcohol poisoning
酒精性	alcoholic (beverage)
酒精洗手液	alcohol-based hand sanitizer
酒精燈	spirit lamp
酒精飲料	alcoholic beverage
酒糟	distiller's grain; wine lees
酒糟鼻	rosacea (dermatological condition of the face and nose); brandy nose
酒紅朱雀	(bird species of China) vinaceous rosefinch (Carpodacus vinaceus)
酒缸	wine jar; (dialect) drinking house
酒肆	wine shop; liquor store; bottle shop
酒肉朋友	lit. drinking buddy (idiom); fig. fair-weather friend
酒至半酣	to drink until one is half drunk
酒興	interest in wine; passion for drinking
酒色	wine and women; color of wine; drunken expression
酒色之徒	follower of wine and women; dissolute person
酒色財氣	wine, sex, avarice and temper (idiom); four cardinal vices
酒花	hops
酒莊	winery
酒菜	food and drink; food to accompany wine
酒蒙子	(dialect) drunkard; alcoholic
酒藥	brewer's yeast; yeast for fermenting rice wine
酒言酒語	words spoken under the influence of alcohol (idiom)
酒資	(old) drinking money; tip
酒足飯飽	to have eaten and drunk to one's heart's content
酒逢知己千杯少	a thousand cups of wine is not too much when best friends meet (idiom)
酒酣耳熱	tipsy and merry (idiom)
酒醉	to become drunk
酒醒	to sober up
酒釀	sweet fermented rice; glutinous rice wine
酒量	capacity for liquor; how much one can drink
酒鋪	tavern; wine shop
酒錢	tip
酒食	food and drink
酒飯	food and drink
酒館	tavern; pub; wine shop
酒館兒	erhua form of 酒館|酒馆[jiu3 guan3]
酒香不怕巷子深	fragrant wine fears no dark alley (idiom)
酒駕	driving while intoxicated; DWI; to drink and drive
酒鬼	drunkard
酒鬼酒	Jiugui Liquor, liquor company from 吉首[Ji2 shou3]
酒麴	brewer's yeast
酒齡	age of wine (i.e. how long it has been matured)
酕	used in 酕醄[mao2 tao2]
酕醄	(literary) very drunk
酖	poisonous; to poison
酗	drunk
酗訟	to be drunk and rowdy
酗酒	heavy drinking; to get drunk; to drink to excess
酗酒滋事	drunken fighting; to get drunk and quarrel
酚	(bound form) phenol
酚甲烷	(Tw) bisphenol A (BPA)
酚酞	phenolphthalein
酚醛	phenolic aldehyde; phenolic resin (used to manufacture bakelite)
酚醛膠	phenolic resin (used to manufacture bakelite)
酚類	(chemistry) phenols; phenolic compounds
酞	phthalein (chemistry)
酡	flushed (from drinking)
酢	toast to host by guest
酢漿草	creeping oxalis; edelweiss
酣	intoxicated
酣夢	sweet dream; sleeping soundly
酣戰	to fight lustily
酣暢	unrestrained
酣暢淋漓	to one's heart's content (idiom)
酣眠	to sleep soundly; to be fast asleep
酣睡	to sleep soundly; to fall into a deep sleep
酣醉	to be dead drunk
酣飲	to drink one's fill
酤	to deal in liquors
酥	flaky pastry; crunchy; limp
酥油	butter
酥油花	butter sculpture (Tibetan art form using paint derived from milk products)
酥油茶	butter tea (Tibetan, Mongolian etc drink derived from milk)
酥脆	crisp (of food)
酥軟	weak (of body or limbs); limp; gone soft
酥酪	yogurt; curd cheese
酥鬆	loose (soil, or limbs of a relaxed person etc); flaky (pastry etc)
酥鬆油脂	shortening (fat used in cooking cakes)
酥麻	limp and numb (of limbs)
酩	used in 酩酊[ming3 ding3]
酩酊	blind drunk
酩酊大醉	(idiom) dead drunk; plastered; as drunk as a lord
酪	(bound form) semi-solid food made from milk (junket, cheese etc)
酪乳	buttermilk
酪梨	(Tw) avocado (Persea americana); Taiwan pr. [luo4li2]
酪梨莎莎醬	guacamole
酪梨醬	(Tw) guacamole; Taiwan pr. [luo4li2jiang4]
酪氨酸	tyrosine (Tyr), an amino acid
酪氨酸代謝病	(medicine) tyrosinosis
酪素	casein (milk protein)
酪蛋白	casein (milk protein)
酪農	(Tw) dairy farmer
酪農業	(Tw) dairy industry; dairy farming
酪餅	cheesecake
酬	to entertain; to repay; to return
酬償	reward
酬勞	reward
酬和	to respond to a poem with a poem
酬報	to repay; to reward
酬對	(literary) to reply; to answer
酬應	social interaction
酬神	to offer thanks to the gods
酬答	to thank with a gift
酬謝	to thank with a gift
酬賓	bargain sale; discount
酬賞	reward
酬載	payload
酬酢	to exchange toasts
酬金	monetary reward; remuneration
酮	ketone
酮基	ketone group
酮糖	ketose, monosaccharide containing ketone group
酯	ester
酯化	esterification
酯酶	(biochemistry) esterase
酰	acid radical; -acyl (chemistry)
酰胺	(chemistry) amide
酲	(literary) inebriated; hungover
酴	yeast
酵	yeast; leaven; fermentation; Taiwan pr. [xiao4]
酵母	yeast; saccharomycete (abbr. for 酵母菌[jiao4 mu3 jun1])
酵母菌	yeast; saccharomycete
酵母醇	zymosterol
酵素	enzyme
酵解作用	zymolysis
酶	enzyme; ferment
酶原	zymogen; fermentogen
酷	ruthless; strong (e.g. of wine); (loanword) cool
酷似	to strikingly resemble
酷兒	queer (sexuality)
酷刑	cruelty; torture
酷刑折磨	torture and cruel treatment
酷愛	to be keen on; to have a passion for
酷斃	(slang) awesome; cool; righteous
酷斯拉	(Tw) Godzilla
酷暑	intense heat; extremely hot weather
酷派	Coolpad Group Ltd, Chinese company
酷炫	(slang) cool; awesome
酷烈	intense; brutal; fierce
酷熱	torrid heat
酷碰	(Tw) (loanword) coupon
酷碰券	(Tw) (loanword) coupon
酷肖	to strikingly resemble
酸	sour; tart; sick at heart
酸不溜丟	sour; acrid; (of a person) embittered
酸乳	yogurt
酸乳酪	yogurt
酸兒辣女	if a woman likes to eat sour during pregnancy, she will have a boy; if she likes to eat spicy, she will have a girl (idiom)
酸奶	yogurt
酸奶油	sour cream
酸式鹽	acid salt
酸性	acidity
酸敗	(milk) to turn sour; (meat, fish) to go off
酸曲	love song
酸根	negative ion; acid radical
酸梅	preserved plum; (esp.) smoked plum; dark plum
酸棗	sour date (Ziziphus jujuba var. spinosa)
酸楚	disconsolate; forlorn; grievance
酸模	sorrel (Rumex acetosa)
酸橙	lime (fruit)
酸民	(Tw) (Internet) troll
酸溜溜	sour; acid
酸漿	Chinese lantern plant (Physalis alkekengi); winter cherry; strawberry ground-cherry
酸澀	sour; acrid; (fig.) bitter
酸甜	sour and sweet
酸甜苦辣	(lit.) sour, sweet, bitter and spicy (idiom)
酸疼	(of muscles) to ache; sore
酸痛	to ache
酸種	sourdough starter
酸菜	pickled vegetables, especially Chinese cabbage
酸葡萄	(fig.) sour grapes
酸豆	tamarind (Tamarindus indica) tropical tree with bean-like fruit
酸軟	aching and weary
酸辛	misery
酸辣土豆絲	hot and sour shredded potato
酸辣湯	hot and sour soup; sour and spicy soup
酸辣粉	hot and sour noodles (Sichuan-origin dish made with starch-based noodles)
酸辣醬	hot and sour sauce; chutney
酸雨	acid rain
酸鹼值	pH (chemistry)
酸黃瓜	pickle; pickled cucumber
酹	pour out libation; sprinkle
酺	drink heavily; drink in company
醁	name of a wine
醂	used in 味醂[wei4 lin2]
醃	to salt; to pickle; to cure (meat)
醃汁	marinade (sauce)
醃泡	to marinade
醃漬	to pickle; cured; salted
醃肉	salt pork; bacon; marinaded meat
醃貨	pickles
醃黃瓜	pickle; pickled cucumber
醄	used in 酕醄[mao2 tao2]
醅	unstrained spirits
醆	wine cup
醇	alcohol; wine with high alcohol content; rich
醇厚	mellow and rich; simple and kind
醇美	mellow; rich; superb
醇酸	alkyd; alcohol acid; hydroxyacid
醇酸樹脂	alkyd resin
醉	intoxicated
醉人	intoxicating; fascinating
醉倒	to pass out drunk
醉心	enthralled; fascinated
醉心於	to be infatuated with
醉意	tipsiness; signs of intoxication
醉態	drunken state
醉棗	dates in liquor
醉漢	intoxicated man; drunkard
醉生夢死	as if drunk or entranced (idiom); leading a befuddled existence
醉翁	wine-lover; drinker; toper
醉翁之意不在酒	wine-lover's heart is not in the cup (idiom); a drinker not really interested in alcohol
醉聖	the Sage of intoxication
醉蝦	drunken shrimp (Chinese dish based on shrimps marinated in Chinese wine)
醉酒	to get drunk
醉酒駕車	drunk driving (very high blood alcohol concentration)
醉醺醺	drunk; intoxicated
醉雞	chicken in rice wine; also translated drunken chicken
醉駕	to drive while above the legal alcohol limit
醉鬼	drunkard
醊	pour libation on ground
醋	vinegar; jealousy (in love rivalry)
醋勁	jealousy (in love)
醋意	jealousy (in love rivalry)
醋栗	gooseberry
醋海生波	lit. waves on a sea of vinegar
醋磺內酯鉀	acesulfame potassium; acesulfame K (an artificial sweetener)
醋罈子	vinegar jar; (fig.) person of a jealous nature
醋酸	acetic acid (CH3COOH); acetate
醋酸乙酯	ethyl acetate; acetidin
醋酸纖維	cellulose acetate (used for film and fiber)
醌	quinone (chemistry)
醍	used in 醍醐[ti2 hu2]
醍醐	refined cream cheese; fig. crème de la crème; nirvana
醍醐灌頂	lit. to anoint your head with the purest cream (idiom); fig. to enlighten people with perfect wisdom
醐	used in 醍醐[ti2 hu2]
醑	spiritus; strain spirits
醒	to wake up; to be awake; to become aware
醒世恆言	Stories to Awaken the World, vernacular short stories by Feng Menglong 馮夢龍|冯梦龙[Feng2 Meng4 long2] published in 1627
醒來	to waken
醒悟	to come to oneself; to come to realize; to come to see the truth
醒目	eye-grabbing (headline); striking (illustration)
醒豁	clear; unambiguous
醒轉	to wake up; to regain consciousness
醒酒	to dissipate the effects of alcohol; to sober up
醒麵	to let the dough rest
醓	brine of pickled meat
醚	ether
醛	aldehyde
醛固酮	aldosterone
醛基	aldehyde group -COH
醛糖	aldose, monosaccharide containing aldehyde group -COH
醛類	(chemistry) aldehyde
醜	shameful; ugly; disgraceful
醜事	scandal
醜人多作怪	(saying) unattractive or untalented people tend to make spectacles of themselves
醜八怪	ugly person
醜劇	absurd drama; farce; disgraceful show
醜化	to defame; to libel; to defile
醜國	(slang) United States; USA; US
醜妻近地家中寶	an ugly wife is a treasure at home (idiom)
醜媳婦早晚要見公婆	(lit.) the ugly daughter-in-law must sooner or later meet her parents-in-law (proverb)
醜小鴨	(fig.) ugly duckling
醜怪	grotesque
醜惡	ugly; repulsive
醜態	shameful performance; disgraceful situation
醜相	ugly expression; unsightly manners
醜聞	scandal
醜行	scandal
醜詆	to slander
醜話	ugly talk; vulgarity; obscenity
醜話說在前頭	let's talk about the unpleasant things first; let's be frank
醜陋	ugly
醜類	villain; evil person
醝	liquor; spirit
醞	to brew
醞釀	(of alcohol) to ferment; (of a crisis) to be brewing
醟	to drink to excess; dissolute
醡	press for extracting wine
醢	minced meat; pickled meat
醣	carbohydrate
醣苷	(Tw) glycoside
醣類	carbohydrate
醨	dregs of wine
醪	wine or liquor with sediment
醪糟	sweet fermented rice; glutinous rice wine
醫	medical; medicine; doctor
醫之好治不病以為功	doctors like to treat those who are not sick so that they can get credit for the patient's "recovery" (idiom)
醫保	medical insurance; abbr. for 醫療保險|医疗保险[yi1 liao2 bao3 xian3]
醫務	medical affairs
醫務人員	medical personnel
醫務室	infirmary; sick bay
醫務所	clinic
醫卜	medicine and divination
醫囑	doctor's orders
醫大	abbr. for 醫科大學|医科大学[yi1 ke1 da4 xue2], university of medicine
醫學	medicine; medical science; study of medicine
醫學中心	medical center
醫學博士	doctor of medicine
醫學家	medical scientist
醫學專家	medical expert; medical specialist
醫學檢驗	medical laboratory technology
醫學檢驗師	medical technologist
醫學系	medical school
醫學院	medical school
醫官	official in charge of medical affairs; respectful title for a doctor
醫家	healer; physician; medical man
醫密	patient confidentiality (medicine)
醫師	doctor; physician
醫德	medical ethics
醫患	doctor-patient
醫托	a shill for a clinic
醫改	reform of the medical system
醫書	medical book
醫案	case history (TCM); case record
醫治	to treat (an illness); medical treatment
醫理	medical knowledge; principles of medical science
醫生	doctor; medical practitioner
醫療	medical treatment
醫療保健	health care
醫療保險	medical insurance
醫療器械	medical equipment
醫療疏失	medical negligence; medical malpractice
醫療護理	health care
醫療費	medical expenses
醫科	medicine (as a science); medical science
醫科大學	university of medicine
醫科學校	medical school
醫美	aesthetic medicine
醫藥	medical care and medicines; medicine (drug); medical
醫藥分離	separating medical consultation from dispensing drugs, proposed policy to counteract perceived PRC problem of "drugs serving to nourish doctors" 以藥養醫|以药养医[yi3 yao4 yang3 yi1]
醫藥商店	chemist; druggist; pharmacy
醫藥學	medical science
醫術	medical expertise; art of healing
醫護	doctors and nurses; medic; medical (personnel)
醫護人員	medical personnel; doctors and nurses
醫道	art of healing; medical skill
醫院	hospital
醫鬧	(neologism, attested by 2013) organized disruption of healthcare facilities or verbal and physical abuse of medical staff by an aggrieved patient or proxies such as family members or hired thugs, typically aimed at obtaining compensation
醬	thick paste of fermented soybean; marinated in soy paste; paste
醬料	sauce
醬油	soy sauce
醬油膏	thickened soy sauce
醬瓜	pickled cucumber
醬紫	dark reddish purple; Internet slang abbr. for 這樣子|这样子[zhe4 yang4 zi5]
醭	mold on liquids
醮	to perform sacrifice
醯	acyl
醰	bitter taste in wine; rich; full flavored
醱	used in 醱酵|酦酵[fa1 jiao4]; Taiwan pr. [po4]
醲	concentrated; strong wine
醳	fine wine; to award with (food and drink)
醴	sweet wine
醴泉縣	Liquan county in Xianyang 咸陽|咸阳, Shaanxi; also written 禮泉縣|礼泉县
醴陵市	Liling, a county-level city in Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
醵	to contribute to a feast; to pool (money)
醹	strong (of wine)
醺	helplessly intoxicated
醽	name of a wine
醾	unfiltered wine; wine brewed twice
釀	to ferment; to brew; to make honey (of bees)
釀成	to make (wine or spirits); (fig.) to lead to (a bad result)
釀母菌	yeast
釀熱物	biological fuel (such as horse dung)
釀製	to brew (beer, soy sauce etc); to make (wine, vinegar etc); to distill (spirits)
釀造	to brew; to make (wine, vinegar, soybean paste etc) by fermentation
釀造學	zymurgy
釀酒	to make a fermented drink (i.e. to brew beer, make wine etc)
釀酒業	brewing industry; wine industry
釀酶	zymase (enzyme in yeast involved in fermentation)
釁	quarrel; dispute; a blood sacrifice (arch.)
釁端	pretext for a dispute
釁隙	enmity
釂	drain a goblet
釃	(literary) to filter (wine); to pour (wine or tea); to dredge
釅	(of tea, wine etc) strong; (of ink, aroma etc) thick; (of a color) deep; rich
采	used in 采邑[cai4 yi4] and 采地[cai4 di4]
采地	fief
采礦場	mining area
采聲	applause; cheering
采蘭贈芍	(lit.) to pluck orchids and gift peonies (idiom)
采邑	fief
釉	glaze (of porcelain)
釋	to explain; to release
釋俗	to explain in simple terms
釋典	Buddhist doctrine; sutras
釋出	to release; to make available; to liberate
釋卷	to stop reading
釋名	"Shiming", late Han dictionary, containing 1502 entries, using puns on the pronunciation of headwords to explain their meaning
釋回	to release from custody
釋嫌	to forget bad feelings; to mend a relationship
釋子	(literary) Buddhist monk; Buddhist monastic
釋家	Buddhism; a Buddhist
釋尊	another name for Sakyamuni 釋迦牟尼佛|释迦牟尼佛, the historical Buddha
釋念	(literary) to be reassured; not to worry
釋懷	to get over (a traumatic experience, misgivings etc)
釋手	to let go; to loosen one's grip; to put sth down
釋放	to release (a prisoner); to set free
釋放出獄	to release from jail
釋教	Buddhism
釋文	interpreting words; to explain the meaning of words in classic texts
釋法	to interpret the law
釋然	relieved; at ease; feel relieved
釋疑	to dispel doubts; to clear up difficulties
釋經	exegesis; explanation of classic text
釋義	the meaning of sth; an explanation of the meaning of words or phrases
釋讀	to read and interpret ancient texts; to decipher
釋迦	Shakya, an ethnicity and clan of the northeast of South Asia to which the Buddha (Siddhartha Gautama) belonged
釋迦佛	Sakyamuni Buddha (Sanskrit: sage of the Sakya)
釋迦牟尼	Shakyamuni (Sanskrit for "the Sage of the Shakyas", i.e. the Buddha, Siddhartha Gautama)
釋迦牟尼佛	Sakyamuni Buddha (Sanskrit: sage of the Sakya)
釋除	(formal) to dispel (doubts); to allay (concerns)
里	li, ancient measure of length, approx. 500 m; neighborhood
里人	person from the same village, town or province; peasant (derog.)
里克特	Richter (name)
里加	Riga, capital of Latvia
里士滿	Richmond (name)
里奇蒙	Richmond (place name or surname)
里奧斯	Ríos (name)
里巷	lane; alley
里希特霍芬	Ferdinand von Richthofen (1833-1905), German geologist and explorer who published a major foundational study of the geology of China in 1887 and first introduced the term Silk Road 絲綢之路|丝绸之路
里弄	lanes and alleys; neighborhood
里弗賽德	Riverside
里拉	(loanword) lira (currency of Turkey)
里斯本	Lisbon, capital of Portugal
里昂	Lyon, French city on the Rhône
里朗威	Lilongwe, capital of Malawi (Tw)
里根	Reagan (name); Ronald Reagan (1911-2004), US president (1981-1989)
里氏	(seismology) Richter (scale)
里氏震級	(seismology) Richter scale
里爾	Lille (city in France)
里瓦幾亞條約	Treaty of Livadia (1879) between Russia and China, relating to territory in Chinese Turkistan, renegotiated in 1881 (Treaty of St. Petersburg)
里瓦爾多	Rivaldo
里社	village shrine to the earth god
里程	mileage (distance traveled); course (of development)
里程碑	milestone
里程表	odometer
里程計	speedometer (of a vehicle)
里約	agreement between the residents of a 里[li3], an administrative district under a city or town (Tw)
里約熱內盧	Rio de Janeiro
里維埃拉	riviera (loanword)
里維耶拉	riviera (loanword) (Tw)
里肌	(Tw) tenderloin (usu. of pork)
里肌肉	loin (of pork)
里諺	common saying; folk proverb
里賈納	Regina city, capital of Saskatchewan province, Canada
里長伯	neighborhood warden
重	heavy; serious; to attach importance to
重中之重	of the utmost importance; of highest priority
重九	the Double Ninth Festival (9th day of the 9th lunar month)
重五	Dragon Boat Festival (5th day of 5th lunar month)
重任	heavy responsibility
重估	to re-evaluate
重來	to start over; to do sth all over again
重修	to reconstruct; to repair; to revamp
重修舊好	to make friends again; to renew old cordial relations
重做	to redo
重傷	serious injury; seriously injured
重價	high price
重元素	heavy element (such as uranium)
重光	to recover one's sight; (fig.) to recover (lost territories)
重兵	massive military force
重典	important classic text; severe laws
重出江湖	(of a person) to return to the fray after a period of inactivity; to jump back into the thick of things
重刊	to reprint
重判	major punishment (law)
重利	high interest; huge profit; to value money highly
重利輕義	to value material gain over righteousness
重創	to inflict heavy losses; to inflict serious damage
重劍	épée (fencing)
重力	gravity
重力加速度	(physics) gravitational acceleration
重力場	gravitational field
重力異常	gravitational anomaly (geology)
重午	Dragon Boat Festival (5th day of 5th lunar month)
重卡	heavy truck (abbr. for 重型卡車|重型卡车)
重印	to reprint
重又	once again
重口味	strong flavor (spicy, salty etc); (of food) strongly flavored
重合	to match up; to coincide
重名	renowned; a great name
重命名	(computing) to rename
重商主義	mercantilism
重啟	to restart (a machine etc); to reactivate (a postponed project etc)
重器	treasure
重回	to return
重圍	to redouble a siege
重地	location of political, economic, military, or cultural importance (usu. not open to the general public); sensitive area
重型	heavy; heavy duty; large caliber
重塑	to reconstruct (an art object); to remodel
重壓	high pressure; bearing a heavy weight
重大	great; important; major
重奏	musical ensemble of several instruments (e.g. duet 二重奏 or trio 三重奏)
重婚	bigamy
重婚罪	bigamy
重子	baryon (physics)
重孝	mourning dress
重孫	great-grandson
重孫女	great-granddaughter
重孫子	great-grandson
重定向	to redirect
重審	to reinvestigate; to investigate and reconsider a judgment
重屋	lit. multiple roof; building of several stories
重巒疊嶂	range upon range of mountains (idiom)
重工	heavy industry
重工業	heavy industry; manufacturing
重度	serious; severe
重建	to rebuild; to reconstruct; to reestablish
重形式輕內容	heavy on form, light on substance
重影	overlapping images
重心	focus; emphasis; priority; (physics) center of gravity
重慶	Chongqing municipality (short name 渝[Yu2])
重慶大學	Chongqing University
重慶市	Chongqing municipality (short name 渝[Yu2])
重懲	to punish severely
重托	great trust
重披戰袍	(fig.) to re-enter the fray; to return to a field of activity after a period of absence
重拾	to pick up (a theme etc); to regain (confidence)
重挫	devastating setback; slump (in stock market etc); crushing defeat
重振	to revitalize; to restore (prestige, prosperity etc)
重排	to rearrange; to retypeset
重提	to raise the same topic
重提舊事	to raise the same old topic again; to hark back
重插	to replug
重播	to replay; to rerun; (agriculture) to reseed
重擊	bang; thump
重操舊業	(idiom) to resume one's old trade
重擔	heavy burden; difficult task; great responsibility
重整	to restructure; to reorganize; to revamp
重整奧思定會	Order of Augustinian Recollects, a mendicant Catholic religious order of friars and nuns
重整旗鼓	lit. to reorganize flags and drums (idiom); to regroup after a setback
重文	repetitious passage; multiple variants of Chinese characters
重文輕武	to value letters and belittle arms (idiom); to stress civil matters and neglect the military
重新	again; once more; re-
重新做人	to start a new life; to make a fresh start
重新啟動	to reboot; to restart
重新裝修	refurbishment; renovation
重新造林	reforestation
重新開始	to resume; to restart; to start afresh
重新開機	to restart; to reboot
重於泰山	heavier than Mt Tai (idiom); fig. extremely serious matter
重映	to reshow (a movie)
重晶石	barite (geology)
重望	renowned; prestigious; great hopes
重查	to reinvestigate; to check again
重核	heavy nucleus
重案	major case; serious crime
重構	to reconstruct; reconstruction; (computing) refactoring
重樓	multistory building
重樣	same; similar; same type
重機槍	heavy machine gun
重機關槍	also written 重機槍|重机枪; heavy machine gun
重正化	to renormalize; renormalization
重武器	heavy weapon
重歷舊遊	to revisit; to return to a previously visited spot
重氫	heavy hydrogen (isotope); deuterium
重水	heavy water (chemistry)
重水反應堆	heavy water reactor (HWR)
重沓	redundant; to pile up
重油	(petrochemistry) heavy oil; fuel oil
重油蛋糕	pound cake
重洋	seas and oceans
重活	heavy work
重混	remix (music)
重溫	to learn sth over again; to review; to brush up
重溫舊夢	to revive old dreams (idiom); to relive past experiences
重演	to recur (of events, esp. adverse ones); to repeat (a performance)
重災	severe disaster
重災區	area particularly hard-hit by a disaster; disaster area
重版	to republish
重物	heavy object
重犯	serious criminal; felon
重獲	to regain
重玩	to replay (a video game)
重現	to reappear
重瓣	(botany) double-flowered
重生	to be reborn; rebirth
重用	to put in an important position
重申	to reaffirm; to reiterate
重男輕女	to value males and attach less importance to females (idiom)
重疊	to overlap; to superimpose; to telescope
重病	serious illness
重病特護	intensive care
重病特護區	intensive care department (of hospital)
重症	acute (of medical condition); grave
重症監護	intensive care
重症監護室	intensive care unit (ICU)
重症肌無力	myasthenia gravis (medicine)
重眼皮	double eyelid
重眼皮兒	double eyelid
重睹天日	to see the light again (idiom); delivered from oppression
重砲	heavy artillery
重碳酸鈣	calcium bicarbonate Ca(HCO3)2
重碳酸鹽	bicarbonate
重碼	repeated code
重磅	(of a bomb) powerful; (of news) impactful; significant
重磅炸彈	(fig.) sth that produces shockwaves; bombshell (revelation)
重算	to recalculate; to reckon again
重組	to reorganize; to recombine; to restructure
重組家庭	blended family
重結晶	to recrystallize
重編	(of a dictionary etc) revised edition
重繭	thick callus; (literary) thick silkwaste padded clothes
重罪	serious crime; felony
重置	to reset; reset; replacement
重罰	to punish severely
重義輕利	to value righteousness rather than material gain (idiom)
重者	more serious case; in extreme cases
重聚	to meet again
重聯	(physics) magnetic reconnection
重聽	hard of hearing
重臂	actuator (arm of a lever); lever; actuating arm
重臣	important minister; major figure in government
重色輕友	paying more attention to a lover than friends (idiom)
重茬	continuous cropping; to plant the same crop continuously on the same land
重荷	heavy load; heavy burden
重裝	(computing) to reinstall
重製	to make a copy; to reproduce; to remake (a movie)
重複	to repeat; to duplicate
重複使力傷害	repetitive strain injury (RSI)
重複性勞損	repetitive strain injury (RSI)
重複法	repetition; duplication; reduplication
重要	important; significant; major
重要性	importance
重覆性	repetitive
重見天日	to see the light again (idiom); delivered from oppression
重視	to attach importance to sth; to value
重視教育	to stress education
重訓	(Tw) weight training (abbr. for 重量訓練|重量训练[zhong4 liang4 xun4 lian4])
重訪	to revisit
重設	to reset
重評	to reevaluate; to reassess
重試	to retry; to try again
重話	harsh words
重譯	to translate again (i.e. to redo the same translation)
重讀	stress (on a syllable)
重負	heavy load; heavy burden (also fig. of tax)
重責	heavy responsibility; serious criticism
重賞	ample reward; to reward generously
重起爐竈	to start over from scratch (idiom)
重趼	thick callus
重蹈	(fig.) to follow (a path that has proved ill-advised)
重蹈覆轍	lit. to follow in the tracks of an overturned cart (idiom)
重身子	pregnant; pregnant woman
重載	(computing) overloading
重辣	very spicy
重辦	to punish severely
重農	to stress the importance of agriculture (in ancient philosophy)
重農抑商	economic doctrine and policy in traditional China of emphasizing agriculture and suppressing commerce
重返	to return to
重述	to repeat; to restate; to recapitulate
重造	to reconstruct
重逢	to meet again; to be reunited; reunion
重連	to reconnect
重重	layer upon layer; one after another
重量	weight
重量單位	unit of weight
重量噸	dead weight ton
重量級	(sports) heavyweight class
重量訓練	weight training (Tw)
重量輕質	to value quantity over quality
重金	large sum of money
重金屬	heavy metal
重鎮	(military) strategic town
重開	to reopen
重陽	Double Ninth or Yang Festival; 9th day of 9th lunar month
重陽節	Double Ninth or Yang Festival; 9th day of 9th lunar month
重離子	heavy ion (physics)
重霄	ninth heaven; Highest Heaven
重音	accent (of a word); stress (on a syllable)
重音節	accented syllable; stress
重頭	main; most important; essential; important part
重頭戲	opera (or role) involving much singing and action; (fig.) highlight
重黎	Chongli, another name for Zhurong 祝融[Zhu4 rong2], god of fire
重點	to recount (e.g. results of election); to re-evaluate
野	field; plain; open space
野人	a savage; uncivilized person; (old) commoner
野兔	hare
野叟曝言	Yesou Puyan or Humble Words of a Rustic Elder, monumental Qing novel by Xia Jingqu 夏敬渠[Xia4 Jing4 qu2]
野口	Noguchi (Japanese surname)
野史	unofficial history; history as popular legends
野合	to commit adultery
野味	game; wild animals and birds hunted for food or sport
野地	wilderness
野外	countryside; areas outside the city
野外定向	orienteering
野外放養	free-range (breeding livestock or poultry)
野孩子	feral child
野小茴	dill seed
野山椒	same as 朝天椒[chao2 tian1 jiao1]
野徑	country path; track in the wilderness
野心	ambition; wild schemes; careerism
野性	wild nature; unruliness
野戰	battlefield operation; paintball
野戰軍	field army
野放	to release (an animal) into the wild
野村	Nomura (Japanese surname)
野果	wild fruit
野格利口酒	Jägermeister (alcoholic drink)
野櫻莓	chokeberry (Aronia melanocarpa)
野漢子	woman's lover
野火	wildfire
野火春風	abbr. for 野火燒不盡，春風吹又生|野火烧不尽，春风吹又生[ye3 huo3 shao1 bu4 jin4 , chun1 feng1 chui1 you4 sheng1]
野火燒不盡，春風吹又生	lit. even a prairie fire cannot destroy the grass - it grows again when the breeze blows (proverb)
野炊	to cook a meal over a campfire (usu. for a group of people on an outing)
野炮	field artillery
野營	to camp; field lodgings
野爹	(vulgar) a man sb's mother has an affair with
野牛	bison
野狐禪	heresy
野狗	wild dog; feral dog; stray dog
野獸	beast; wild animal
野甘藍	European wild cabbage (Brassica oleracea)
野生	wild; undomesticated
野生動植物園	wildlife park; safari park
野生動物	wild animal
野生植物	plants in the wild
野生生物基金會	World Wildlife Fund (WWF)
野田佳彥	Noda Yoshihiko (1957-), prime minister of Japan 2011-2012
野禽	fowl
野種	(derog.) illegitimate child; bastard
野胡蘿蔔	carrot (Daucus carota)
野花	wildflower; woman of easy virtue
野草	weeds; mistress or prostitute (old)
野菜	wild herb; potherb
野蠻	barbarous; uncivilized
野蠻人	barbarian
野調無腔	coarse in speech and manner
野豕	(literary) wild boar
野豬	wild boar (Sus scrofa)
野貓	wildcat; feral cat; stray cat
野趣	rustic charm
野路子	(coll.) unorthodox (method etc)
野遊	outing in the country; to go on a hike; to go courting
野釣	wild angling
野雞	pheasant; unregistered and operating illegally (business)
野雞大學	diploma mill
野顛茄	deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna)
野餐	picnic; to have a picnic
野餐墊	picnic blanket
野馬	feral horse; free-roaming horse; wild horse
野驢	onager (Equus onager)
野鴛鴦	wild mandarin duck; (derog.) illicit lovers; unorthodox couple
野鴨	wild duck; mallard (Anas platyrhyncha)
野鼬瓣花	wild hemp
量	capacity; quantity; amount
量入為出	to assess one's income and spend accordingly (idiom); to live within one's means
量具	measuring device
量刑	(law) to determine the sentence
量力	to estimate one's strength
量力而為	to weigh one's abilities and act accordingly
量力而行	to assess one's capabilities and act accordingly (idiom); to act within one's competence
量化	to quantify; quantification; quantitative; to quantize; quantization
量化寬鬆	quantitative easing (finance)
量化邏輯	quantificational logic (i.e. first-order logic)
量器	measuring vessel; measuring apparatus
量子	(physics) quantum
量子力學	quantum mechanics
量子化	quantization (physics)
量子場論	quantum field theory
量子沫	quantum foam (in string theory, and science fiction)
量子糾纏	quantum entanglement (physics)
量子色動力學	quantum chromodynamics (particle physics)
量子論	quantum theory (physics)
量子阱	(physics) quantum well
量子電動力學	quantum electrodynamics QED
量尺寸	to take sb's measurements
量度	to measure; measurement
量才錄用	to assess sb's capabilities and employ him accordingly (idiom); to employ sb competent for the task
量杯	measuring cup; graduated measuring cylinder
量油尺	dipstick; oil measuring rod
量測	to measure; measurement
量瓶	measuring flask; graduated measuring cylinder
量產	to mass-produce
量程	range (of scales or measuring equipment)
量筒	graduated measuring cylinder; volumetric cylinder
量級	order of magnitude
量綱	dimension (unit)
量腹	to estimate how much food is required for a meal
量表	gauge; meter; scale
量規	gauge held against an object to judge thickness, diameter etc (e.g. feeler gauge, calipers)
量角器	protractor; angle gauge
量計	gauge
量詞	classifier (in Chinese grammar); measure word
量變	quantitative change
量販	to sell in a large amount at a lower price per unit
量販店	wholesale store; hypermarket
量販式	at wholesale price
量身	to take sb's measurements; to measure sb up
量身定做	to tailor-make; tailor-made; tailored to
量身定製	tailor-made
量體溫	to take sb's temperature
量體裁衣	(lit.) to cut cloth according to the body (idiom)
量體重	to weigh oneself; to measure sb's weight
釐	Li (c. 2000 BC), sixth of the legendary Flame Emperors 炎帝[Yan2 di4] descended from Shennong 神農|神农[Shen2 nong2] Farmer God, also known as Ai 哀[Ai1]
釐克	centigram
釐升	centiliter
釐析	to analyze in detail
釐清	to clarify (the facts); clarification
釐瓦	centiwatt
釐米	centimeter
金	surname Jin; surname Kim (Korean); Jurchen Jin dynasty (1115–1234)
金三角	Golden Triangle (Southeast Asia)
金主	financial backer; bankroller
金代	Jin Dynasty (1115-1234), founded by the Jurchen 女真[Nu:3 zhen1] people of North China, a precursor of the Mongol Yuan Dynasty
金伯利岩	Kimberlite (geology)
金元券	currency issued by Nationalist Government in 1948
金光閃爍	spangle
金光黨	racketeers; con artists
金冠地鶯	(bird species of China) slaty-bellied tesia (Tesia olivea)
金冠戴菊	goldcrest (Regulus regulus); gold-crowned kinglet
金冠樹八哥	(bird species of China) golden-crested myna (Ampeliceps coronatus)
金剛	King Kong
金剛山	Kumgangsan Tourist Region in east North Korea
金剛座	Bodhimanda (place of enlightenment associated with a Bodhisattva)
金剛怒目	(idiom) to have a face as terrifying as a temple's guardian deity
金剛手菩薩	Vajrapani Bodhisattva
金剛杵	vajra scepter (ritual object of Buddhism)
金剛狼	Wolverine, comic book superhero
金剛石	diamond; also called 鑽石|钻石[zuan4 shi2]
金剛砂	carborundum; emery
金剛總持	Vajradhara
金剛薩埵	Vajrasattva
金剛鑽	a diamond
金剛鸚鵡	macaw
金匠	goldsmith
金匯兌本位制	gold exchange standard (economics)
金印	golden seal; characters tattooed on a convict's face
金口河區	Jinkouhe, a district of Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
金句	pearl of wisdom; quotable quote
金史	History of the Jurchen Jin Dynasty, twenty second of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], composed under Toktoghan 脫脫|脱脱[Tuo1 tuo1] in 1345 during the Yuan Dynasty 元[Yuan2], 135 scrolls
金合歡	acacia
金喉擬啄木鳥	(bird species of China) golden-throated barbet (Psilopogon franklinii)
金國汗	the Later Jin dynasty (from 1616-)
金圓券	currency issued by Nationalist Government in 1948
金城江區	Jinchengjiang, a district of Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
金城湯池	impregnable fortress
金城鎮	Jincheng (common place name)
金堂縣	Jintang, a county in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
金塔縣	Jinta, a county in Jiuquan City 酒泉市[Jiu3 quan2 Shi4], Gansu
金壇區	Jintan, a district of Changzhou City 常州市[Chang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
金夏沙	Kinshasa, capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (Tw)
金大中	Kim Dae-jung (1926-2009), South Korea politician, president 1998-2003, Nobel peace prize laureate 2000
金天翮	Jin Tianhe (1874–1947), late-Qing poet and novelist, co-author of A Flower in a Sinful Sea 孽海花[Nie4 hai3 hua1]
金威	Kingway (Chinese beer brand)
金婚	golden wedding
金子	Kaneko (Japanese surname)
金字	gold lettering; gold characters
金字塔	pyramid (building or structure)
金字塔式	downward-facing dog (yoga pose)
金宇中	Kim Woo-jung (1936-), Korean businessman and founder of the Daewoo Group
金安區	Jin'an, a district of Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
金富軾	Kim Busik (1075-1151), court historian of the Korean Georyo dynasty 高麗|高丽[Gao1 li2], compiler of History of Three Kingdoms 三國史記|三国史记[San1 guo2 shi3 ji4]
金寨縣	Jinzhai, a county in Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
金寶	Campbell (name); Kampar, town in the state of Perak, Malaysia
金小蜂	a parisitoid wasp (genus Nasonia)
金屋藏嬌	a golden house to keep one's mistress (idiom); a magnificent house built for a beloved woman
金屬	metal
金屬疲勞	metal fatigue
金屬鍵	metallic bond
金山	Jinshan suburban district of Shanghai
金山區	Jinshan suburban district of Shanghai
金山寺	Jinshan Temple, where Fahai lives (from Madam White Snake)
金川區	Jinchuan, a district of Jinchang City 金昌市[Jin1 chang1 Shi4], Gansu
金川縣	Jinchuan, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
金州區	Jinzhou, a district of Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
金工	metalworking
金帳汗國	Golden Horde (ancient state)
金幣	gold coin
金平區	Jinping, a district of Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
金平糖	a type of small, bumpy, colored, hard sugar candy (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 金平糖 "konpeitō")
金平苗族瑤族傣族自治縣	Jinping Miao, Yao, and Dai Autonomous County, in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
金庫	treasury
金庸	Jin Yong, pen name of Louis Cha (1924-2018), wuxia 武俠|武侠[wu3 xia2] novelist, author of the 1957-1961 Condor Trilogy
金戈鐵馬	very powerful army
金改	financial reform (abbr. for 金融改革[jin1 rong2 gai3 ge2])
金文	inscription in bronze; bell-cauldron inscription
金斑鴴	(bird species of China) Pacific golden plover (Pluvialis fulva)
金斯敦	Kingstown, capital of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
金日成	Kim Il Sung (1912-1994) Great Leader of North Korea
金昌市	Jinchang, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
金星	gold star; stars (that one sees from blow to the head etc)
金曜日	Friday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
金曲	hit song
金曲獎	Golden Melody Awards
金朝	Jin Dynasty (1115-1234), founded by the Jurchen 女真[Nu:3 zhen1] people of North China, a precursor of the Mongol Yuan Dynasty
金本位	gold standard (monetary system)
金東區	Jindong, a district of Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
金林區	Jinlin, a district of Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
金枝玉葉	golden branch, jade leaves (idiom); fig. blue-blooded nobility, esp. imperial kinsmen or peerless beauty
金柑	kumquat
金桂冠	Kim Kye-gwan (1943-), North Korean diplomat, first vice-foreign minister and chief negotiator 2010-2019
金桔	kumquat
金條	gold bar
金棗	oval kumquat; Nagami kumquat (Citrus margarita)
金榜	(lit.) tablet with inscription in gold
金榜題名	to win top marks in the imperial examinations
金槍魚	tuna
金橘	kumquat; also written 金桔[jin1 ju2]
金櫃	strongbox; safe; metal bookcase
金櫃石室	safe places for storing important articles
金正恩	Kim Jong-un (c. 1983-), third son of Kim Jong-il 金正日[Jin1 Zheng4 ri4], supreme leader of North Korea from 2011
金正日	Kim Jong-il (1942-2011), Dear Leader of North Korea 1982-2011
金正男	Kim Jong-nam (1971-2017), the eldest son of Kim Jong-il 金正日[Jin1 Zheng4 ri4]
金正銀	former spelling of Kim Jong-un 金正恩[Jin1 Zheng4 en1]
金毛	blond fur; golden hair; (coll.) golden retriever
金毛尋回犬	golden retriever
金毛犬	golden retriever (dog breed)
金毛狗	golden retriever (dog breed)
金氏	Guinness (name) (Tw)
金水區	Jinshui, a district of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
金永南	Kim Yong-nam (1928-), North Korean politician, foreign minister 1983-1998, president of the Supreme People's Assembly 1998-2019 (nominal head of state and described as deputy leader)
金沙	gold dust; salted egg yolk sauce
金沙江	Jinsha River, the upper course of the Yangtze River 長江|长江[Chang2 Jiang1] in southwestern China
金沙縣	Jinsha, a county in Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
金沙薩	Kinshasa, capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
金泉	Gimcheon (city in South Korea)
金泳三	Kim Young-sam (1927-2015), South Korean politician, president 1993-1998
金湖縣	Jinhu, a county in Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
金湯	impregnable fortress (abbr. for 金城湯池|金城汤池[jin1 cheng2 tang1 chi2])
金湯力	(loanword) gin and tonic
金溪縣	Jinxi, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
金漆	copper paint; fake gold leaf
金漸層	golden British shorthair (cat)
金灣區	Jinwan, a district of Zhuhai City 珠海市[Zhu1 hai3 Shi4], Guangdong
金烏	Golden Crow; the sun
金烏西墜，玉兔東昇	lit. the golden bird of the sun sets in the west, the jade hare of the moon rises in the east
金無足赤	not all gold is sufficiently red (idiom); no-one is perfect
金熊獎	Golden Bear, award at the Berlin International Film Festival
金燦燦	golden-bright and dazzling
金牌	gold medal
金牛	Taurus (star sign)
金牛區	Jinniu, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
金牛座	Taurus (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
金獅獎	Golden Lion, award at the Venice Film Festival
金獎	gold medal; first prize
金玉	gold and jade; precious
金玉其外，敗絮其中	gilded exterior, shabby and ruined on the inside (idiom)
金玉其表，敗絮其中	gilded exterior, shabby and ruined on the inside (idiom)
金玉滿堂	lit. gold and jade fill the hall (idiom); fig. abundant wealth
金玉良言	gems of wisdom (idiom); priceless advice
金球獎	Golden Globe Award
金瓜	pumpkin (Gymnopetalum chinense)
金瓜石	Jinguashi, town in Ruifang District, New Taipei City, Taiwan, noted for its historic gold and copper mines, used as a prisoner-of-war camp by the Japanese (1942-1945)
金瓶梅	Jinpingmei or the Golden Lotus (1617), Ming dynasty vernacular novel, formerly notorious and banned for its sexual content
金瓶梅詞話	Jinpingmei or the Golden Lotus (1617), Ming dynasty vernacular novel, formerly notorious and banned for its sexual content
金甌	Ca Mau, Vietnam
金田起義	Jintian Uprising
金盆洗手	lit. to wash one's hands in a gold basin (idiom)
金目鱸	Barramundi
金盾工程	Golden Shield Project, information system for censorship and surveillance, thought to include the Great Firewall of China 防火長城|防火长城[Fang2 huo3 Chang2 cheng2] as a component
金眶鴴	(bird species of China) little ringed plover (Charadrius dubius)
金眶鶲鶯	(bird species of China) green-crowned warbler (Phylloscopus burkii)
金眼鶥雀	(bird species of China) yellow-eyed babbler (Chrysomma sinense)
金石	metal and stone; fig. hard objects; inscription on metal or bronze
金石學	epigraphy
金石絲竹	(lit.) (music instruments made of) metal, stone, string, and bamboo (idiom)
金石良言	gems of wisdom (idiom); priceless advice
金碧熒煌	splendid in green and gold (idiom); looking radiant
金碧輝煌	gold and jade in glorious splendor (idiom)
金磚	(bound form) BRICS
金磚國家	BRICS (economic bloc)
金礦	gold mine; gold ore
金秀瑤族自治縣	Jinxiu Yao Autonomous County, in Laibin City 來賓市|来宾市[Lai2 bin1 Shi4], Guangxi
金秋	fall; autumn
金科玉律	golden rule; key principle
金窩銀窩不如自己的狗窩	there's no place like home (idiom)
金童玉女	lit. golden boys and jade maidens (idiom)
金箍	gold band
金箍棒	golden cudgel, weapon wielded by Sun Wukong in the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]
金箔	gold leaf
金紅	reddish-gold (color)
金紅石	(mineralogy) rutile
金紙	joss paper
金絲燕	Aerodramus, genus of birds that use echolocation, a subset of the Collocaliini tribe (swiflets), two of whose species – Aerodramus fuciphagus and Aerodramus maximus – build nests harvested to make bird's nest soup
金絲猴	golden snub-nosed monkey (Rhinopithecus roxellana)
金絲雀	canary
金縣	King County
金缽	(gold) alms bowl (of a Buddhist monk)
金翅	oriental greenfinch (Carduelis sinica)
金翅噪鶥	(bird species of China) Assam laughingthrush (Trochalopteron chrysopterum)
金翅雀	(bird species of China) grey-capped greenfinch (Chloris sinica)
金背三趾啄木鳥	(bird species of China) common flameback (Dinopium javanense)
金胸歌鴝	(bird species of China) firethroat (Calliope pectardens)
金胸雀鶥	(bird species of China) golden-breasted fulvetta (Lioparus chrysotis)
金腰燕	(bird species of China) red-rumped swallow (Cecropis daurica)
金臺區	Jintai, a district of Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
金色	golden; gold (color)
金色林鴝	(bird species of China) golden bush robin (Tarsiger chrysaeus)
金色鴉雀	(bird species of China) golden parrotbill (Suthora verreauxi)
金茂大廈	Jin Mao Tower, skyscraper in Shanghai
金菇	enoki mushroom; abbr. for 金針菇|金针菇
金華市	Jinhua, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
金華火腿	Jinhua ham
金蔥粉	glitter (sparkling material)
金蔥膠	glitter glue
金蘭	profound friendship; sworn brotherhood
金蘭之交	intimate friendship (idiom)
金蘭譜	(old) genealogical records of sworn brothers, each keeping a copy
金融	banking; finance; financial
金融區	financial district
金融危機	financial crisis
金融家	financier; banker
金融市場	financial market
金融改革	financial reform
金融時報	Financial Times
金融時報指數	Financial Times stock exchange index (FTSE 100 or footsie)
金融業	financial sector; the banking business
金融槓桿	financial leverage; leveraging (i.e. buying shares on borrowed funds)
金融機構	financial institution; banking institution
金融機關	financial organization
金融界	banking circles; the world of finance
金融系統	financial system
金融衍生產品	financial derivative
金融風暴	banking crisis; storm in financial circles
金融風波	financial crisis; banking crisis
金蟬	Golden Cicada
金蟬脫殼	lit. the cicada sheds its carapace (idiom); fig. to vanish leaving an empty shell
金衡	troy weight, system of weights for precious metals and gemstones based on the 12-ounce pound (or 5,760 grains)
金角灣	Zolotoy Rog or Golden Horn Bay in Vladivostok (famous for its pollution)
金貴	(coll.) precious; extremely valuable
金邊	Phnom Penh, capital of Cambodia
金鄉縣	Jinxiang, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
金酒	gin
金里奇	(Newt) Gingrich
金針	needle used in embroidery or sewing; acupuncture needle
金針花	orange day-lily (Hemerocallis fulva)
金針菇	enoki mushroom (Flammulina velutipes), used in cuisines of Japan, Korea and China, cultivated to be long, thin and white
金針菜	day lily (Hemerocallis), used in Chinese medicine and cuisine
金鈴子	chinaberry (Melia azedarach)
金銀	gold and silver
金銀塊	bullion
金銀島	Treasure Island by R.L. Stevenson 羅伯特·路易斯·斯蒂文森|罗伯特·路易斯·斯蒂文森[Luo2 bo2 te4 · Lu4 yi4 si1 · Si1 di4 wen2 sen1]
金銀箔	gold and silver foil; gold and silver leaf
金銀花	honeysuckle
金銀銅鐵錫	the five metals: gold, silver, copper, iron, tin
金錢	money; currency
金錢掛帥	caring only about money and wealth
金錢萬能	money is omnipotent (idiom); with money, you can do anything
金錢豹	leopard
金鎦子	gold ring
金鐘	Admiralty, Hong Kong
金鑰	the key (to solving a problem etc); (Tw) (cryptography) key
金鑾殿	throne room
金門	Kinmen or Quemoy islands off the Fujian coast, administered by Taiwan
金門島	Kinmen or Quemoy islands off the Fujian coast, administered by Taiwan
金門縣	Kinmen County, Taiwan (the Kinmen or Quemoy islands off the Fujian coast)
金閣寺	Kinkakuji or Golden pavilion in northwest Kyōto 京都, Japan
金闕	the imperial palace
金陵	pre-Han name for Nanjing; common place name
金陵大學	University of Nanking
金陽縣	Jinyang, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
金雀花	broom; furze (family Fabaceae)
金雞	golden pheasant (Chrysolophus pictus)
金雞獨立	golden rooster stands on one leg (tai chi posture)
金雞納	quinine (Cinchona ledgeriana)
金雞納樹	Cinchona ledgeriana, tree whose bark contains quinine
金雞納霜	quinine powder
金霸王	Duracell (US brand of batteries etc)
金頂戴菊	goldcrest (Regulus satrapa)
金頂戴菊鳥	goldcrest (Regulus satrapa)
金領	gold collar; high-level senior executive; highly-skilled worker
金頭扇尾鶯	(bird species of China) golden-headed cisticola (Cisticola exilis)
金頭穗鶥	(bird species of China) golden babbler (Cyanoderma chrysaeum)
金頭縫葉鶯	(bird species of China) mountain tailorbird (Phyllergates cuculatus)
金頭黑雀	(bird species of China) gold-naped finch (Pyrrhoplectes epauletta)
金額	sum of money; amount of money
金額絲雀	(bird species of China) red-fronted serin (Serinus pusillus)
金額葉鵯	(bird species of China) golden-fronted leafbird (Chloropsis aurifrons)
金額雀鶥	(bird species of China) golden-fronted fulvetta (Schoeniparus variegaticeps)
金飯碗	secure and lucrative job
金飾	gold ornaments
金馬獎	Golden Horse Film Festival and Awards
金髮	blond; blonde; fair-haired
金髮碧眼	fair-haired and blue-eyed; blonde; of Western appearance
金魚	goldfish
金魚佬	pedophile (slang, referring to the case of a Hong Kong child abductor who lured girls with the prospect of seeing "goldfish" in his apartment)
金魚草	snapdragon (Antirrhinum majus)
金魚藻	hornwort (Ceratophyllum demersum)
金鳳區	Jinfeng, a district of Yinchuan City 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4], Ningxia
金鵰	(bird species of China) golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos)
金鹵燈	metal halide lamp
金黃	golden yellow; golden
金黃色	gold color
金黃鸝	(bird species of China) Eurasian golden oriole (Oriolus oriolus)
金黴素	(pharmacology) chlortetracycline
金龜	tortoise; scarab beetle
金龜婿	wealthy son-in-law; wealthy husband
金龜子	scarab
金龜車	(Tw) Volkswagen Beetle
釓	gadolinium (chemistry)
釔	yttrium (chemistry)
釕	ruthenium (chemistry)
釕銱兒	hasp
釗	to encourage; to cut; to strain
釘	to join things together by fixing them in place at one or more points
釘子	nail; snag; saboteur
釘子戶	householder who refuses to vacate his home despite pressure from property developers
釘槍	nail gun; staple gun
釘死	to nail securely; to execute by means of impalement; to crucify
釘牢	to clinch (a nail); to nail down
釘耙	rake
釘螺	Oncomelania
釘釘	DingTalk, business communication platform developed by Alibaba
釘鈀	rake
釘錘	nail hammer; claw hammer
釘頭	head of nail
釙	polonium (chemistry); Taiwan pr. [po4]
釜	kettle; cauldron
釜山	Busan, South Korea's second-largest city
釜底抽薪	to take drastic measures to deal with a situation
釜底游魚	a fish at the bottom of the pot (idiom); in a desperate situation
針	needle; pin; injection
針具	acupuncture needle; hypodermic needle
針刺	to prick with a needle; to treat by acupuncture
針刺麻醉	acupuncture anesthesia
針劑	fluid loaded into a syringe for a hypodermic injection
針劑瓶	ampoule
針孔	pinhole
針孔攝像頭	miniature hidden camera; spy camera
針孔攝影機	(Tw) miniature, concealable camera with a pinhole-sized lens
針對	to target; to focus on; to be aimed at or against; in response to
針對性	focus; direction; purpose
針尖對麥芒	sharply opposed to each other, with neither prepared to give an inch (idiom)
針尾沙錐	(bird species of China) pin-tailed snipe (Gallinago stenura)
針尾綠鳩	(bird species of China) pin-tailed green pigeon (Treron apicauda)
針尾鴨	(bird species of China) northern pintail (Anas acuta)
針式打印機	(computing) dot matrix printer
針扎	pincushion
針氈	needle felting (craft); piece of felt used as a pincushion
針法	stitch
針灸	acupuncture and moxibustion
針狀	needle-shaped
針眼	eye of a needle; pinprick; pinhole
針砭	to critique; to voice concerns about
針筒	syringe
針箍	thimble
針管	syringe
針線	needle and thread; needlework
針線活	needlework; sewing
針線活兒	needlework; working for a living as a needleworker
針線活計	needlework; sewing
針線箔籬	(dialect) wicker sewing basket
針織	knitting; knitted garment
針織品	knitwear
針葉	needle-leaved (tree)
針葉林	needle-leaved forest
針葉植物	needle-leaved plant (e.g. pine tree)
針葉樹	conifer
針鋒相對	to oppose each other with equal harshness (idiom); tit for tat
針頭	tip of a needle; syringe needle
針頭線腦	needle and thread; sewing implements; needlework
針魚	saury fish (family Scomberesocidae)
針麻	acupuncture anesthesia
針鼴	(zoology) echidna
針鼻	the eye of a needle
釢	(old) neodymium; neptunium (chemistry)
釣	to fish with a hook and line; to angle
釣具	fishing tackle
釣凱子	(slang) (of women) to hunt for rich, attractive guys
釣客	angler
釣竿	fishing rod
釣針	fishhook
釣鉤	fishhook
釣鉤兒	erhua form of 釣鉤|钓钩[diao4 gou1]
釣魚	to fish (with line and hook); to angle; (fig.) to entrap
釣魚執法	(law) entrapment
釣魚島	Diaoyu Islands, claimed by China but controlled by Japan as the Senkaku Islands, also called the Pinnacle Islands
釣魚式攻擊	(computing) phishing attack
釣魚竿	fishing rod
釣魚者	angler
釣魚臺	Diaoyu Islands, located between Taiwan and Okinawa, controlled by Japan – which calls them the Senkaku Islands – but claimed by China
釤	to cut with a sickle; large sickle
釤刀	scythe
釤鐮	scythe
釦	button
釦子	button
釦眼	buttonhole
釧	armlet; bracelet
釩	vanadium (chemistry)
釪	an alms bowl; a small bell
釭	hanging bowl for lamp or fish
釱	fetters; to fetter
釳	(arch.) metal horn attached as shield to horse or to the axle of a chariot
釵	hairpin
釷	thorium (chemistry)
釹	neodymium (chemistry)
釺	a drill (for boring through rock)
釺子	hammer drill for boring through rock
鈀	palladium (chemistry); Taiwan pr. [ba1]
鈁	francium (chemistry)
鈃	long-necked wine flask
鈄	a wine flagon
鈇	(literary) fodder chopper; (chemistry) flerovium
鈈	plutonium (chemistry)
鈉	sodium (chemistry)
鈌	to pierce, to stab
鈍	blunt; stupid
鈍化	(chemistry) to passivate
鈍器	blunt instrument (used as a weapon)
鈍翅葦鶯	(bird species of China) blunt-winged warbler (Acrocephalus concinens)
鈍角	obtuse angle
鈐	latch of door; seal
鈑	metal plate; sheet of metal
鈑金	sheet metal working; auto body repair work; panel beating
鈒	(literary) small halberd with an iron handle, used as a weapon or agricultural tool
鈔	money; paper money
鈔票	paper money; a bill (e.g. 100 yuan)
鈔能力	(coll.) wealth; financial clout (pun on 超能力[chao1 neng2 li4])
鈕	surname Niu
鈕帶	bond; ties (of friendship etc)
鈕祜祿	Niohuru (prominent Manchu clan)
鈞	30 catties; great; your (honorific)
鈞諭	(deferential) your instructions
鈣	calcium (chemistry)
鈣化	to calcify; calcification
鈣華	(geology) tufa; travertine
鈣質	calcium
鈤	archaic translation of element germanium Ge32 鍺|锗[zhe3]
鈥	holmium (chemistry)
鈦	titanium (chemistry)
鈦合金	titanium alloy
鈦鐵礦	ilmenite FeTiO3; titanium ore
鈧	scandium (chemistry)
鈬	surname Duo
鈮	niobium (chemistry)
鈰	cerium (chemistry)
鈳	columbium
鈴	(small) bell
鈴木	Suzuki (Japanese surname)
鈴聲	ring; ringtone; bell stroke
鈴蘭	lily of the valley (Convallaria majalis)
鈴鐺	little bell
鈴鼓	tambourine (musical instrument); bell and drum
鈷	(chemistry) cobalt (Taiwan pr. [gu1]); used in 鈷鉧|钴𬭁[gu3 mu3]
鈷鉧	(literary) clothes iron
鈸	cymbals
鈹	beryllium (chemistry)
鈺	treasure; hard metal
鈽	plutonium (chemistry) (Tw)
鈾	uranium (chemistry); Taiwan pr. [you4]
鈾濃縮	uranium enrichment
鈿	to inlay with gold, silver etc
鉀	potassium (chemistry)
鉀鹽	potassium chloride KCl
鉅	(literary) hard iron; (literary) hook; barb
鉅子	(Mohism) master; leader; an authority; a prominent figure
鉅惠	big discount (The nonstandard simplified form 钜 is commonly used for this word in advertising instead of 巨[ju4].)
鉅防	fortified gate
鉈	thallium (chemistry)
鉉	stick-like implement inserted into the handles of a tripod cauldron in ancient times in order to lift the cauldron
鉊	sickle
鉌	small bell
鉍	bismuth (chemistry)
鉏	hoe
鉑	platinum (chemistry)
鉑金	platinum
鉕	promethium (chemistry)
鉗	pincers; pliers; tongs
鉗住	to clamp down; to suppress
鉗制	to suppress; to muzzle; to gag
鉗嘴鸛	(bird species of China) Asian openbill (Anastomus oscitans)
鉗子	pliers; pincers; tongs
鉗工	fitter; benchwork
鉗馬銜枚	with horses and soldiers gagged (idiom)
鉚	to fasten with a rivet; to rivet; to hammer in a rivet
鉚上	to go all out; to rise to
鉚勁兒	to apply all one's strength in a burst of effort
鉚工	riveter; worker with rivets
鉚接	to join with rivets; to rivet; riveted joint
鉚足勁兒	to exert all one's strength
鉚釘	rivet
鉚釘槍	rivet gun
鉛	used in 鉛山|铅山[Yan2 shan1] (the name of a place in Jiangxi)
鉛垂線	plumbline
鉛字	(printing) type; movable letters
鉛山縣	Yanshan, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
鉛帶	weight belt
鉛條	strip of lead; (printing) slug; lead (for a propelling pencil)
鉛球	shot put (athletics event)
鉛礦	lead ore
鉛筆	(lead) pencil
鉛筆刀	pencil sharpener
鉛筆盒	pencil case
鉛箔	lead foil
鉛管工	plumber
鉛酸蓄電池	lead-acid accumulator; battery (e.g. in car)
鉛錘	bob of a plumbline
鉝	livermorium (chemistry); (old) (Italian) lira (loanword)
鉞	battle-ax
鉠	(onom.) ring; tinkle
鉤	to hook; to sew; to crochet
鉤住	to hook onto; to hitch onto; to catch onto
鉤吻	heartbreak grass (Gelsemium elegans)
鉤嘴圓尾鸌	(bird species of China) Tahiti petrel (Pseudobulweria rostrata)
鉤嘴林鵙	(bird species of China) large woodshrike (Tephrodornis virgatus)
鉤子	hook
鉤扣	hook
鉤拳	(boxing) hook
鉤環	shackle (U-shaped link)
鉤破	(of sth sharp) to snag (one's stockings etc)
鉤稽	to explore; to investigate; to audit (accounts, books etc)
鉤端螺旋體病	leptospirosis
鉤編	to crochet
鉤織	to crochet
鉤花	to crochet
鉤針	crochet hook; crochet needle
鉥	acmite
鉦	gong used to halt troops
鉧	used in 鈷鉧|钴𬭁[gu3 mu3]
鉨	(chemistry) nihonium
鉬	molybdenum (chemistry)
鉭	tantalum (chemistry)
鉲	(chemistry) cadmium (old); (Tw) californium
鉳	berkelium (chemistry) (Tw)
鉶	soup cauldron; (arch.) sacrificial tripod with two handles and a lid
鉸	scissors; to cut (with scissors)
鉸刀	reamer; scissors
鉸鏈	hinge
鉺	erbium (chemistry)
鉻	chromium (chemistry)
鉼	plate
鉾	(archaic) battle helmet (variant of 鍪[mou2])
鉿	hafnium (chemistry)
銀	silver; silver-colored; relating to money or currency
銀丹	lunar caustic (fused silver nitrate, shaped into a stick and used as a cauterizing agent)
銀亮	shiny bright as silver
銀保	bank insurance; bancassurance
銀元	flat silver (former coinage); also written 銀圓|银圆; silver dollar
銀光	silvery light; bright white light; shining white light
銀兩	silver (as currency)
銀匠	silversmith
銀喉長尾山雀	(bird species of China) silver-throated bushtit (Aegithalos glaucogularis)
銀器	silverware
銀壇	moviedom; the world of movies; film circles
銀婚	silver wedding
銀子	money; silver
銀屏	television; TV screen; the silver screen
銀屑病	psoriasis
銀川市	Yinchuan, prefecture-level city and capital of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 寧夏回族自治區|宁夏回族自治区[Ning2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
銀州區	Yinzhou, a district of Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
銀幕	movie screen
銀幣	silver coin
銀座	Ginza (district in Tokyo)
銀彈	silver bullet
銀手鐲	(fig.) handcuffs
銀晃晃	silver glitter
銀本位	silver standard (monetary system)
銀本位制	silver standard (monetary system)
銀杏	ginkgo
銀杯	silver cup (trophy)
銀柳	pussy willow
銀根	(finance) money supply
銀條	silver bar
銀樅	silver fir (Abies alba)
銀樓	silverware store; jewelry center
銀樣鑞槍頭	silvery spear point actually made of pewter (idiom); fig. worthless despite an attractive exterior
銀河	Milky Way
銀河星雲	a galactic nebula
銀河系	Milky Way Galaxy; the galaxy (our galaxy)
銀洋	flat silver (former coinage); also written 銀元|银元
銀海	moviedom; the world of movies; film circles
銀海區	Yinhai, a district of Beihai City 北海市[Bei3 hai3 Shi4], Guangxi
銀漢	Milky Way; also called 銀河|银河[Yin2 he2]
銀漸層	silver British shorthair (cat)
銀熊獎	Silver Bear, award at the Berlin International Film Festival
銀燕	(literary) airplane
銀牌	silver medal
銀狐	silver or black fox (Vulpes alopex argentatus); also written 玄狐
銀獅獎	Silver Lion, award at the Venice Film Festival
銀獎	silver medal
銀瓶	silver bottle
銀白	silver white
銀白楊	silver birch; white poplar
銀監會	China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC), abbr. for 中國銀行業監督管理委員會|中国银行业监督管理委员会[Zhong1 guo2 Yin2 hang2 ye4 Jian1 du1 Guan3 li3 Wei3 yuan2 hui4]
銀盤	silver plate; galactic disc
銀票	(in former times) banknote with a value in silver
銀箔	silver foil
銀紅	pink; silvery red; pale rose color
銀絲捲	yin si juan, steamed bun from Shandong province with hand-drawn dough threads folded over
銀耳	white fungus (Tremella fuciformis); silver tree-ear fungus
銀耳噪鶥	(bird species of China) silver-eared laughingthrush (Trochalopteron melanostigma)
銀耳相思鳥	(bird species of China) silver-eared mesia (Leiothrix argentauris)
銀聯	UnionPay; CUP
銀胸闊嘴鳥	(bird species of China) silver-breasted broadbill (Serilophus lunatus)
銀膠菊	guayule (Parthenium argentatum)
銀臉長尾山雀	(bird species of China) sooty bushtit (Aegithalos fuliginosus)
銀色	silver (color)
銀苔	moss silver; silver in the form of fibers or branches
銀葉	silver leaf
銀蓮花	anemone
銀行	bank
銀行卡	bank card
銀行家	banker
銀行對賬單	bank statement
銀行業	banking
銀製	made of silver
銀質	made of silver
銀質獎	silver medal
銀輝	radiance; silver white sheen
銀針	silver needle (fine needle used in acupuncture)
銀錠	silver ingot
銀錢	silver money (in former times)
銀閣寺	Ginkaku-ji or Silver Pavilion in Kyoto 京都[Jing1 du1], Japan, officially called Jishōji 慈照寺[Ci2 zhao4 si4]
銀飾	silver jewelry; silver ornaments
銀髮	silver hair; gray hair
銀髮族	the elderly
銀魚	oriental whitebait
銀鯧	silvery pomfret; dollarfish; harvestfish
銀鷗	(bird species of China) European herring gull (Larus argentatus)
銀點	the silver point
銃	ancient firearm; gun
銅	copper (chemistry)
銅仁市	Tongren, prefecture-level city in Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
銅像	bronze statue
銅匠	coppersmith
銅器	copper ware; bronze ware
銅官區	Tongguan, a district of Tongling City 銅陵市|铜陵市[Tong2 ling2 Shi4], Anhui
銅山區	Tongshan, a district of Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
銅川市	Tongchuan, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
銅板	copper coin; copper plate
銅梁區	Tongliang, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
銅水	molten copper; molten bronze
銅牆鐵壁	copper wall, iron bastion (idiom); impenetrable defense
銅版	(printing) copperplate
銅牌	bronze medal; bronze plaque bearing a business name or logo etc
銅環	brass ring; door knocker
銅礦	copper mine; copper ore
銅管	brass instrument (music)
銅管樂器	brass instruments
銅絲	copper wire
銅綠	verdigris
銅綠層	patina
銅翅水雉	(bird species of China) bronze-winged jacana (Metopidius indicus)
銅臭味	profit-before-all-else mindset; money-grubbing
銅藍鶲	(bird species of China) verditer flycatcher (Eumyias thalassinus)
銅鈴	bell made of copper or bronze
銅錘	mace (weapon)
銅錘花臉	(Chinese opera) tongchui hualian, a military character holding a bronze mace, classified as a jing 淨|净[jing4] role
銅錢	copper coin (round with a square hole in the middle, used in former times in China)
銅鏽	verdigris
銅鏽層	patina
銅鑼	gong
銅鑼灣	Causeway Bay
銅鑼燒	dorayaki (a Japanese confection)
銅陵市	Tongling, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
銅鼓	bronze drum; (Western-style) drum
銅鼓縣	Tonggu, a county in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
銍	sickle
銎	eye of an axe
銑	to mill (machining); Taiwan pr. [xian3]
銑工	milling (machining); milling machine operator
銑床	milling machine
銑鐵	cast iron
銓	to estimate; to select
銓敘部	Ministry of Civil Service, Taiwan
銓衡	to measure and select talents
銖	twenty-fourth part of a tael (2 or 3 grams)
銘	to engrave; inscribed motto
銘刻	a carved inscription
銘心刻骨	lit. etched into one's heart and bones (idiom)
銘心鏤骨	engraved in one's heart and carved in one's bones (idiom); to remember a benefactor as long as one lives
銘文	inscription
銘牌	nameplate; data plate (on a machine)
銘瑄	MaxSun, PRC company specializing in video and computer display
銘言	motto; slogan
銘記	to engrave in one's memory
銘謝	to express gratitude (esp. in public); vote of thanks
銚	pan with a long handle
銛	fish-spear; sharp
銜	bit (of a bridle); to hold in the mouth; to harbor (feelings)
銜接	to link up; to connect; to join
銠	rhodium (chemistry)
銣	rubidium (chemistry)
銤	formerly used for the chemical elements americium 鎇|镅[mei2] and osmium 鋨|锇[e2]
銥	iridium (chemistry)
銦	indium (chemistry)
銧	point of a sword
銨	ammonium
銩	thulium (chemistry)
銪	europium (chemistry)
銫	cesium (chemistry)
銬	shackles; fetters; manacle
銰	character used in Korea in former times to represent the syllable "ngai"
銳	acute
銳不可當	unstoppable; hard to hold back
銳利	sharp; keen; acute
銳化	to sharpen
銳志	firm determination
銳意	acute determination; dauntless
銳敏	acute; astute; perceptive
銳步	Reebok (sportswear manufacturer)
銳氣	acute spirit; dash; drive
銳減	steep decline
銳角	acute angle
銳評	(neologism) incisive commentary (abbr. for 銳利評論|锐利评论[rui4 li4 ping2 lun4])
銳進	to advance; to rush forward
銶	single-headed pick; stone chisel
銷	to melt (metal); to cancel; to annul; to sell
銷假	to report back after a period of absence
銷冠	top salesperson; sales champion
銷勢	sale
銷售	to sell; to market; sales (representative, agreement etc)
銷售時點	point of sale
銷售時點情報系統	point of sale system
銷售額	sales figure; total income from sales; turnover
銷售點	point of sale (POS); checkout; retail outlet
銷子	a peg; a pin; dowel
銷帳	to write off; to cancel an account; to draw a line under
銷戶	to close an account; to cancel sb's household registration
銷案	to close a case; to bring a case to a close (law)
銷毀	to destroy (by melting or burning); to obliterate
銷聲匿跡	to vanish without trace (idiom); to lie low
銷號	to close an account; to cancel a (phone) number
銷蝕	(lit. and fig.) to corrode; to erode; to wear away
銷行	to sell; to be on sale; to be sold
銷貨帳	sales ledger (accountancy)
銷賬	to write off; to cancel an item from accounts
銷贓	to dispose of stolen goods
銷路	sale; market; state of the market
銷量	sales volume
銷金窟	money squandering establishment (e.g. gambling den, brothel etc)
銷鑠	to melt; to eliminate
銷魂	ecstasy; rapture; to feel overwhelming joy or sorrow
銻	antimony (chemistry)
銼	file (tool used for smoothing); rasp; to file
銼刀	file (metalworking and woodworking tool)
銾	sound of a bell
鋁	aluminum (chemistry)
鋁合金	aluminum alloy
鋁土礦	bauxite
鋁礬土	bauxite; aluminum ore
鋁箔	aluminum foil
鋁箔紙	aluminum foil
鋂	americium (chemistry) (Tw); (archaic) metal chain
鋃	chain; ornament
鋃鐺	iron chains; shackles; (onom.) clank
鋃鐺入獄	lit. to get shackled and thrown in jail (idiom)
鋅	zinc (chemistry)
鋆	gold
鋇	barium (chemistry)
鋈	-plated; to plate
鋊	a poker; brass filings; to file
鋌	(literary) to walk or run quickly
鋌而走險	(idiom) to take a risk out of desperation
鋍	old term for beryllium, now written 鈹|铍[pi2]
鋏	pincers for use at a fire; sword
鋏子	tongs
鋐	utensil; implement
鋑	to engrave or carve, as a block for printing
鋒	point of a spear; edge of a tool; vanguard
鋒利	sharp (e.g. knife blade); incisive; to the point
鋒芒	tip (of pencil, spear etc); sharp point; cutting edge
鋒芒內斂	to be talented yet self-effacing (idiom)
鋒芒畢露	to show off one's ability
鋒鋼	high speed steel
鋒面	front (meteorology)
鋕	to engrave; to record
鋘	to plaster; trowel
鋙	hoe
鋝	(ancient unit of weight)
鋟	to carve
鋡	to hold; to contain
鋣	used in 鏌鋣|镆铘[Mo4 ye2]
鋤	a hoe; to hoe or dig; to weed
鋤地	to hoe; to weed the soil
鋤奸	to weed out the traitors
鋤強扶弱	to root out the strong and support the weak (idiom); to rob the rich and give to the poor
鋤犁	plow
鋤草	to hoe; to weed
鋤頭	hoe
鋥	polished; shiny
鋥亮	shiny
鋥光	shiny
鋦	to mend by stapling or cramping broken pieces together
鋦子	clamp for mending pottery
鋨	osmium (chemistry)
鋩	sharp point; point of sword
鋪	to spread; to display; to set up
鋪位	bunk; berth
鋪保	shop's guarantee
鋪墊	to spread out bedding; bedcover
鋪天蓋地	(lit.) eclipsing the sky and blanketing the earth (idiom)
鋪子	store; shop
鋪家	store; shop
鋪展	to spread out
鋪平	to spread out (material); to pave (the way, a road etc)
鋪床	to make a bed; to lay bedding
鋪底	shop fittings
鋪張	ostentation; extravagance
鋪張浪費	extravagance and waste (idiom)
鋪戶	store; shop
鋪捐	tax on stores
鋪排	to arrange
鋪擺	to display (goods); to dispose of
鋪攤	to spread out; to display; to lay out a vendor's stall
鋪放	to display
鋪敘	to explain all the details; complete narrative
鋪板	bedboard
鋪梗	(Tw) to set the scene; to lay the groundwork; to pique the interest of one's audience
鋪炕	to make a bed; to lay bedding
鋪砌	to pave
鋪蓋	to spread evenly over
鋪蓋卷兒	bedroll
鋪衍	to spread out widely; to disseminate
鋪襯	to serve as a contrasting element
鋪設	to lay (railroad tracks, carpet, pipeline); to install (wiring, cable)
鋪路	to pave (with paving stones); to lay a road
鋪軌	to lay railway track
鋪陳	to arrange; to spread out; to narrate in detail
鋪面	front window; store front
鋪面房	store; front room of house serving as shop
鋪首	holder for door knocker
鋬	(dialect) handle of a cup, kettle or other vessel
鋮	(used in people's names)
鋯	zirconium (chemistry)
鋯合金	zircaloy
鋯石	zircon (colored crystal of zirconium silicate ZrSiO4)
鋯英砂	zircon sand (zirconium ore)
鋰	lithium (chemistry)
鋰離子電池	lithium ion battery
鋰電池	lithium battery
鋱	terbium (chemistry)
鋸	a saw (CL:把[ba3]); to saw
鋸子	a saw
鋸工	a sawyer
鋸掉	to saw off (a branch etc); to amputate (a limb)
鋸木廠	sawmill; lumber mill
鋸木架	a sawhorse
鋸末	sawdust
鋸架	a sawframe
鋸條	a sawblade
鋸棕櫚	saw palmetto (Serenoa repens, a small palm, an extract of whose fruit is used medicinally)
鋸片	saw blade
鋸開	to saw
鋸齒	sawtooth
鋸齒形	sawtooth shape; zigzag
鋹	sharp; a keen edge; sharp point
鋼	steel
鋼刀	steel knife; sword
鋼化玻璃	reinforced glass
鋼叉	pitchfork; garden fork; restraining pole (used by police)
鋼圈	wheel rim; underwire (in a bra)
鋼坯	billet (steel industry)
鋼城區	Gangcheng, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
鋼廠	a steelworks
鋼彈	Gundam, Japanese animation franchise
鋼材	steel (as raw material); steel sheets, bars, tubes, ingots, wire etc
鋼板	steel plate
鋼柱	iron pillar; iron rod
鋼梁	steel beam; girder
鋼條	steel bar
鋼槍	rifle
鋼片琴	celesta
鋼珠	steel ball; bearing ball
鋼琴	piano
鋼琴家	pianist
鋼琴師	pianist
鋼琴演奏	piano performance
鋼盔	metal helmet; (military) helmet
鋼窗	metal window
鋼筆	fountain pen
鋼筋	steel reinforcing bar
鋼筋水泥	reinforced concrete
鋼筋混凝土	reinforced concrete
鋼管	steel pipe; pole (in pole dancing)
鋼管舞	pole dancing
鋼箭	iron arrow
鋼絲	steel wire; tightrope
鋼絲球	stainless steel scourer
鋼絲繩	hawser; steel rope
鋼絲鉗	combination pliers; lineman's pliers
鋼絲鋸	jigsaw (saw with steel wire blade)
鋼纜	steel cable; wire cable; steel hawser
鋼花	spray (or sparks) of molten steel
鋼製	made of steel; steel (bar, screw, product etc)
鋼軌	steel rail
鋼釺	(mining) drill rod; drill steel
鋼鋸	hacksaw
鋼鏰	small coin; dime
鋼鐵	steel
鋼鐵俠	Iron Man, comic book superhero
鋼鐵學院	Beijing Steel and Iron Institute (the former name of 北京科技大學|北京科技大学[Bei3 jing1 Ke1 ji4 Da4 xue2], University of Science and Technology Beijing)
鋼鐵工業	steel industry
鋼鐵廠	iron and steel works; steelworks
鋼鐵直男	(slang) an extremely "straight" man: direct, literal-minded, practical and unromantic, and emotionally obtuse
鋼鞭	mace (weapon)
鋼骨水泥	reinforced concrete
錀	(metal); roentgenium (chemistry)
錁	grease-pot for cart; ingot
錄	diary; record; to hit
錄供	to take down a confession; Taiwan pr. [lu4gong1]
錄像	to videotape; to videorecord; video recording
錄像帶	videotape; video cassette
錄像機	video recorder; VCR
錄入	to input (computer); to type
錄取	to accept an applicant (prospective student, employee etc) who passes an entrance exam
錄取率	acceptance rate; admission rate
錄取線	minimum passing score for admission
錄取通知書	admission notice (issued by a university)
錄屏	(computing) to make a screen capture video; a screen video
錄影	to videotape; to videorecord
錄影帶	(Tw) videotape; video cassette
錄影機	camcorder; video recorder; videocassette recorder (Tw)
錄播	replay of a broadcast or livestream
錄放	to record and play (audio, video)
錄用	to hire (an employee); to accept (a manuscript) for publication
錄製	to record (video or audio)
錄音	to record sound; an audio recording (CL:段[duan4])
錄音室	recording studio
錄音帶	audio tape
錄音棚	recording studio
錄音機	(tape) recording machine; tape recorder
錄音筆	voice recorder (handheld digital device)
錆	the color of a mineral
錇	berkelium (chemistry)
錈	to bend iron
錍	flat arrow-head; plow blade; also pr. [pi2]
錏	ammonium (old)
錐	cone; awl; to bore
錐台	(math.) frustum
錐套	taper bushing
錐子	awl
錐子臉	V-shaped face
錐尖	point of an awl; sharp point
錐形	conical
錐形瓶	Erlenmeyer flask
錐筒	traffic cone; road cone
錐蟲病	trypanosomiasis
錐面	cone
錐齒輪	pinion gear
錒	actinium (chemistry)
錒系元素	actinoids (rare earth series), namely: actinium Ac89 錒|锕[a1], thorium Th90 釷|钍[tu3], protoactinium Pa91 鏷|镤[pu2], uranium U92 鈾|铀[you2], neptunium Ne93 鎿|镎[na2], plutonium Pu94 鈈|钚[bu4], americium Am95 鎇|镅[mei2], curium Cm96 鋦|锔[ju2], berkelium Bk97 錇|锫[pei2], californium Cf98 鐦|锎[kai1], einsteinium Es99 鎄|锿[ai1], fermium Fm100 鐨|镄[fei4], mendelevium Md101 鍆|钔[men2], nobelium No102 鍩|锘[nuo4], lawrencium Lr103 鐒|铹[lao2]
錔	to encase the end with metal
錕	steel sword
錘	hammer; to hammer into shape; weight (e.g. of a steelyard or balance)
錘子	hammer
錘煉	to forge (metal); (fig.) to toughen sb up; to hone (one's skills)
錘頭鯊	a hammerhead shark
錘骨	malleus or hammer bone of middle ear
錘骨柄	manubrium of malleus (handle of hammer bone), connecting ossicles 聽小骨|听小骨 to tympanum 鼓膜
錙	ancient weight; one-eighth of a tael
錙銖必較	to haggle over every cent (idiom)
錚	(dialect) (bound form) shiny; gleaming; Taiwan pr. [zheng1]
錚亮	shiny; gleaming
錚錚鐵漢	a strong and determined man (idiom)
錛	adz; adze
錞	copper drum
錟	long spear
錠	(weaving) spindle; ingot; pressed cake of medicine etc
錡	three legged cauldron (old); woodworking chisel (old)
錢	coin; money; unit of weight, one tenth of a tael 兩|两[liang3]
錢三強	Qian Sanqiang
錢不是萬能的，沒錢是萬萬不能的	money isn't everything, but without money you can do nothing (idiom)
錢串	string of cash
錢串子	string of copper coins (in ancient China)
錢其琛	Qian Qichen (1928-2017), former Chinese vice premier
錢包	purse; wallet
錢可通神	with money, you can do anything (idiom); money talks
錢塘區	Qiantang, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
錢塘江	Qiantang River, the principal river of Zhejiang Province, eastern China, flowing through Hangzhou and into Hangzhou Bay, noted for its spectacular tidal bore 錢塘潮|钱塘潮[Qian2 tang2 chao2]
錢塘潮	tidal bore of the Qiantang River 錢塘江|钱塘江[Qian2 tang2 Jiang1] in Zhejiang
錢多事少離家近	lots of money, less work, and close to home; ideal job
錢夾	wallet; Taiwan pr. [qian2 jia2]
錢學森	Qian Xuesen (1911-2009), Chinese scientist and aeronautical engineer
錢幣	money (esp. coins)
錢永健	Roger Yonchien Tsien (1952-), US Chinese chemist and 2008 Nobel laureate
錢物	money and things of value
錢皮	Carlo Azeglio Ciampi (1920-2016), president of Italy 1999-2006
錢糧	land tax; money and grain (given as tax or tribute)
錢能通神	money is all-powerful; money can move God
錢莊	old-style money shop (a type of private bank that first appeared in the Ming dynasty, flourished in the Qing, and was phased out after 1949)
錢袋	wallet; purse; money bag
錢袋子	(coll.) purse; money bag; (fig.) one's money; one's savings
錢財	wealth; money
錢起	Qian Qi (c. 710-780), Tang Dynasty poet
錢鈔	money
錢鍾書	Qian Zhongshu (1910–1998), Chinese scholar and writer, author of the 1947 novel Fortress Beseiged 圍城|围城[Wei2 cheng2]
錤	hoe
錦	brocade; embroidered work; bright
錦上添花	(lit.) to add flowers to brocade (idiom)
錦囊	silk brocade bag, used in ancient times to hold poetry manuscripts and other precious items
錦囊妙計	brocade sack of miracle plans (idiom); bag of tricks
錦屏縣	Jinping, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
錦州市	Jinzhou, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
錦心繡口	(of writing) elegant and ornate
錦旗	silk banner (as an award or gift)
錦標	prize; trophy; title
錦標賽	championship contest; championships
錦江區	Jinjiang, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
錦緞	brocade
錦繡	beautiful
錦繡前程	bright future; bright prospects
錦葵	common mallow (Malva sinensis), used in TCM
錦衣玉食	brocade garments, jade meals (idiom); a life of luxury; extravagance
錦衣衛	Brocade Uniform Guard, imperial bodyguard and secret police force of the Ming emperors
錦雞	golden pheasant
錦鯉	koi (Cyprinus carpio haematopterus)
錨	anchor
錨鏈	anchor chain
錨鏈孔	hawsehole (small hole for anchor cable or hawser in the side of ship)
錨點	anchor point
錩	metal utensil; mounting; fitting
錫	tin (chemistry); to bestow; to confer
錫伯	Xibe ethnic group
錫伯族	Xibe ethnic group
錫克	Sikh
錫克教	Sikhism
錫劇	Wuxi opera (which developed in the area around Wuxi 無錫|无锡[Wu2 xi1])
錫嘴雀	(bird species of China) hawfinch (Coccothraustes coccothraustes)
錫婚	tin anniversary; aluminum anniversary (10th wedding anniversary)
錫安	Zion
錫安山	Mount Zion
錫山區	Xishan, a district of Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
錫拉庫薩	Syracuse, Sicily
錫杖	(Buddhism) khakkhara; staff topped with metal rings, traditionally carried by Buddhist monks
錫林浩特市	Xilinhot, a county-level city in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
錫林郭勒盟	Xilingol, league in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
錫爾河	Syr Darya, Central Asian river, flowing from Kyrgiz Republic through Kazakhstan to the Aral sea
錫瓦	Siwa, Egypt
錫當河	Sittang River of central Myanmar (Burma), between Irrawaddy and Salween rivers
錫石	tin oxide SnO2; cassiterite; tinstone
錫礦	tin ore
錫箔	tinfoil
錫箔紙	aluminum foil
錫紙	tinfoil
錫蘭	Ceylon (former name of Sri Lanka)
錫蠟	pewter (alloy of tin 錫|锡, lead 鉛|铅 and other metals)
錫金	Sikkim, Indian state bordering Tibet
錫鉛	pewter (tin alloy)
錫錠	tin ingot
錫鑞	pewter (alloy of tin 錫|锡, lead 鉛|铅 and other metals)
錫霍特	Sichote-Alin mountain range in Russian far east opposite Sakhalin Island
錫霍特·阿林	Sichote-Alin mountain range in Russian far east opposite Sakhalin Island
錫霍特·阿林山脈	Sichote-Alin mountain range in Russian far east opposite Sakhalin Island
錫霍特山脈	Sichote-Alin mountain range in Russian far east opposite Sakhalin Island
錮	obstinate disease; to restrain; to stop
錮囚鋒	occluded front (meteorology)
錮漏鍋	tinker; artisan who fixes leaky pots
錯	mistake; wrong; bad
錯亂	in disorder; deranged (mentally)
錯位	to be wrongly positioned; to be dislocated; to be misplaced
錯別字	Chinese character error (collective term for 錯字|错字[cuo4 zi4] and 別字|别字[bie2 zi4])
錯動	to move relative to one another
錯失	fault; mistake; to miss (a chance)
錯字	incorrectly written Chinese character
錯層	split-level (home)
錯峰	to stagger usage to ameliorate peak load
錯怪	to blame sb wrongly
錯愕	astonished; startled
錯愛	misplaced kindness
錯時	to stagger (holidays, working hours etc)
錯案	a misjudged legal case; a miscarriage (of justice)
錯漏	error and negligence
錯用	to misuse; to misapply
錯票	error note (i.e. misprinted banknote)
錯綜	intricate; complicated; tangled
錯綜複雜	tangled and complicated (idiom)
錯義突變	missense mutation
錯落	strewn at random; disorderly; untidy
錯落不齊	disorderly and uneven (idiom); irregular and disorderly
錯落有致	in picturesque disorder (idiom); irregular arrangement with charming effect
錯處	fault
錯視	optical illusion; trick of the eye; parablepsia
錯覺	misconception; illusion; misperception
錯覺結合	illusory conjunction
錯角	(math.) alternate angles
錯解	misinterpretation; mistaken explanation
錯語	(TCM) paraphasia
錯誤	mistaken; false; wrong; error; mistake
錯讀	to mispronounce
錯車	to give right of way to another vehicle; the wrong bus
錯過	to miss (train, opportunity etc)
錯那市	Tsona, a county-level city in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
錯配	to be mismatched
錯開	to stagger (times)
錯雜	mixed; jumbled
錳	manganese (chemistry)
錳礦	manganese ore
錳結核	manganese nodule
錴	rhodium (chemistry) (old)
錵	holmium (chemistry) (old)
錶	watch (timepiece); meter; gauge
錶冠	watch crown; winding crown
錶帶	watchband; watch strap
錶盤	watch face
錶蒙子	watch glass; crystal
錶針	hand of a clock
錸	rhenium (chemistry)
錼	neptunium (chemistry) (Tw)
鍀	technetium (chemistry)
鍁	shovel
鍃	(metalwork) to ream; to countersink; to counterbore
鍃孔	an enlargement at the outer end of a drilled hole, either funnel-shaped (a countersink) or cylindrical (a counterbore)
鍅	francium (chemistry) (Tw)
鍆	mendelevium (chemistry)
鍇	high quality iron
鍈	(onom.) ring; tinkle
鍉	spoon; key
鍋	pot; pan; wok; cauldron; pot-shaped thing
鍋台	top of a kitchen range
鍋墊	trivet; pot-holder
鍋子	pot; pan; wok; cauldron; pot-shaped thing; hotpot
鍋巴	guoba (scorched rice at the bottom of the pan)
鍋底	the bottom of a pot or pan; hotpot broth
鍋灶	stove; cooking burner
鍋燒意麵	nabeyaki egg noodles
鍋爐	boiler
鍋盔	large round baked wheat pancake
鍋碗瓢盆	kitchen utensils (literary)
鍋蓋	saucepan lid; (satellite) dish
鍋蓋頭	bowl cut (hairstyle)
鍋貼	fried dumpling; potsticker
鍋鏟	wok spatula; cooking spatula
鍋駝機	portable steam engine
鍍	to plate (with gold, silver etc); (prefix) -plated
鍍上	to plate (with gold, silver etc)
鍍層	the coating of sth that has been chrome-plated or copper-plated etc
鍍金	to gold-plate; to gild; (fig.) to make sth quite ordinary seem special
鍍銀	silver-plated
鍍鋅	galvanized; zinc-coated
鍏	spade
鍐	a headstall, ornament on a bridle
鍔	blade edge; sharp
鍘	lever-style guillotine; to chop using this type of guillotine
鍘刀	lever-style guillotine (for chopping fodder etc)
鍚	ornaments on headstall of horse
鍛	to forge; to discipline; wrought
鍛打	to forge (metal)
鍛造	to forge (metal); forging
鍛鍊	to toughen; to temper; to engage in physical exercise
鍛鐵	wrought iron
鍠	sound of drums and bells; trident
鍤	spade; shovel
鍥	to cut; to carve; to engrave
鍥而不捨	to chip away at a task and not abandon it (idiom); to chisel away at sth
鍩	nobelium (chemistry)
鍪	(archaic) iron pot; (archaic) battle helmet
鍬	shovel; spade
鍬形蟲	stag beetle (generic term for the beetles in the family of lucanidae)
鍬甲	stag beetle
鍭	metal arrowhead
鍰	ancient unit of weight; money
鍱	thin plates of metal
鍴	(arch.) drinking goblet
鍵	key (on a piano or computer keyboard)
鍵入	to key in; to input; to enter (some text)
鍵帽	keycap
鍵政	(slang) to discuss politics online
鍵槽	(engineering) keyway; key slot
鍵盤	keyboard
鍵盤俠	keyboard warrior
鍵盤樂器	keyboard instrument (piano, organ etc)
鍵程	key travel (of a keyboard)
鍵詞	keyword
鍵鼠	keyboard and mouse (abbr. for 鍵盤|键盘[jian4 pan2] + 鼠標|鼠标[shu3 biao1])
鍶	strontium (chemistry)
鍹	spade; hoe
鍺	germanium (chemistry)
鍾	handleless cup; goblet
鍾情	to fall in love; to love sb or sth dearly (lover, or art)
鍾愛	to treasure; to be very fond of
鍾楚紅	Cherie Chung (1960–), Hong Kong actress
鍾睒睒	Zhong Shanshan (1954-), Chinese billionaire businessman, the founder and chairperson of Nongfu Spring 農夫山泉|农夫山泉[Nong2 fu1 Shan1 quan2]
鍾祥市	Zhongxiang, a county-level city in Jingmen City 荊門市|荆门市[Jing1 men2 Shi4], Hubei
鍾繇	Zhong Yao (151-230), minister of Cao Wei 曹魏[Cao2 Wei4] and noted calligrapher, said to have developed the regular script 楷書|楷书[kai3 shu1]
鍾萬學	Basuki Tjahaja Purnama (1966-), Indonesian politician, governor of Jakarta (2014-)
鍾靈毓秀	(of a place) endowed with a natural beauty that nurtures people of talent (idiom)
鍾馗	Zhong Kui (mythological figure, supposed to drive away evil spirits)
鎂	magnesium (chemistry)
鎂光	magnesium light (produced by burning magnesium)
鎂光燈	magnesium flashbulb; (fig.) media spotlight; public attention
鎂棒	ferrocerium rod; fire steel
鎂砂	magnesium oxide (refractory material)
鎂磚	magnesium brick (refractory material)
鎂粉	magnesium powder (used in pyrotechnics etc)
鎂鹽	magnesium salt
鎄	einsteinium (chemistry)
鎇	americium (chemistry)
鎉	thallium
鎊	pound (sterling) (loanword)
鎋	linchpin (used to fasten a wheel to an axle) (variant of 轄|辖[xia2])
鎍	chain; wire
鎓	shovel; spade; -onium (chemistry)
鎔	to smelt; to fuse
鎔爐	forge
鎖	to lock; to lock up; a lock (CL:把[ba3])
鎖上	to lock; to lock up
鎖匙	(dialect) key; Taiwan pr. [suo3 shi5]
鎖匠	locksmith
鎖區	region lock (gaming etc)
鎖喉	to apply a chokehold
鎖國	to close a country; to exclude foreign contact
鎖孔	keyhole
鎖存器	latch (electronic)
鎖定	to lock (a door); to close with a latch; to lock into place
鎖屏	(computing) to lock the screen; lock screen
鎖掉	lock up; lock out; to lock
鎖掣	catch (of a lock)
鎖眼	keyhole
鎖管	general term for squids (Tw)
鎖鏈	chains; shackles
鎖鑰	key and lock; (fig.) strategic place
鎖門	to lock the door
鎖閂	latch; bolt (to lock a door or window)
鎖頭	a lock
鎖骨	collarbone; clavicle
鎗	rifle; spear
鎘	cadmium (chemistry)
鎛	ancient musical intrument shaped as a bell; hoe; spade
鎝	technetium (chemistry) (Tw)
鎞	plowshare; barb, lancet
鎡	hoe; mattock
鎢	tungsten (chemistry)
鎣	polish
鎤	sound of a bell; small bell
鎦	(bound form) finger ring; Taiwan pr. [liu2]
鎦子	(dialect) finger ring
鎦金	gold-plating; gilded; gold-plated
鎦銀器	gilded silverware
鎧	armor
鎧甲	armor
鎧裝	(of a cable etc) armored
鎩	(old) spear; lance; (literary) to cripple; to harm; to injure
鎩羽	(literary) (lit.) to cripple the wings of a bird
鎩羽而歸	(idiom) to return in low spirits following a defeat or failure to achieve one's ambitions
鎪	to engrave (metal of wood)
鎬	bright; place name; stove
鎬京	Haojing (in modern Shaanxi, northwest of Chang'an county), capital of Western Zhou from c. 1050 BC
鎬把	pickaxe handle
鎬頭	pickaxe
鎮	to press down; to calm; to subdue
鎮住	to dominate; to control; to subdue
鎮區	township
鎮原縣	Zhenyuan, a county in Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
鎮反運動	Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries (PRC political campaign from 1950-1952), abbr. for 鎮壓反革命運動|镇压反革命运动[Zhen4 ya1 Fan3 ge2 ming4 Yun4 dong4]
鎮台	garrison commander (old)
鎮咳	cough suppressant
鎮坪縣	Zhenping, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
鎮壓	suppression; repression; to suppress
鎮壓反革命運動	Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries (PRC political campaign from 1950-1952), abbr. to 鎮反運動|镇反运动[Zhen4 fan3 Yun4 dong4]
鎮妖	to drive away evil spirits
鎮子	town; village
鎮守	(of troops stationed in a strategic area) to defend
鎮安縣	Zhen'an, a county in Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
鎮定	calm; unperturbed; cool
鎮定劑	tranquilizer; depressant; sedative
鎮定藥	sedative drug
鎮寧布依族苗族自治縣	Zhenning Buyei and Miao Autonomous County, in Anshun City 安順市|安顺市[An1 shun4 Shi4], Guizhou
鎮山	main mountain of a region
鎮巴縣	Zhenba, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
鎮平縣	Zhenping, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
鎮康縣	Zhenkang, a county in Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
鎮得住	to manage to suppress; to keep under control
鎮日	all day
鎮暴	to suppress a riot; riot control
鎮江市	Zhenjiang, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
鎮沅彝族哈尼族拉祜族自治縣	Zhenyuan Yi, Hani and Lahu Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
鎮流器	electrical ballast
鎮海區	Zhenhai, a district of Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
鎮痙劑	antispasmodic (pharmacology)
鎮痛	to suppress pain
鎮痛劑	painkiller; analgesic; anodyne
鎮痛藥	analgesic
鎮筸	former name of Fenghuang Ancient Town 鳳凰古城|凤凰古城[Feng4 huang2 Gu3 cheng2] in Hunan
鎮紙	paperweight
鎮賚縣	Zhenlai, a county in Baicheng City 白城市[Bai2 cheng2 Shi4], Jilin
鎮遠縣	Zhenyuan, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
鎮長	town headman; mayor (of small town or village); bailiff
鎮雄縣	Zhenxiong, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
鎮靜	calm; cool
鎮靜劑	tranquilizer
鎮靜藥	sedative
鎯	large hammer
鎰	ancient unit of weight equal to 20 or 24 liang 兩|两[liang3]
鎳	nickel (chemistry)
鎳箔	nickel sheet
鎴	strontium (obsolete, now 鍶|锶[si1])
鎵	gallium (chemistry)
鎶	copernicium (chemistry)
鎸	to inscribe
鎿	neptunium (chemistry)
鏃	arrowhead; sharp
鏇	to shape on a lathe; to peel with a knife; to turn in (a screw)
鏇子	large metal plate for making bean curd; metal pot for warming wine
鏇工	lathe operator; spinning wheel worker
鏇床	lathe
鏇木	wood turning; woodwork lathe
鏈	chain; cable (unit of length: 100 fathoms, about 185 m)
鏈子	chain
鏈式反應	chain reaction
鏈式裂變反應	chain reaction of nuclear fission
鏈接	to link; to catenate; link (on a web page); hyperlink
鏈條	chain
鏈烴	chain hydrocarbon
鏈球	(athletics) hammer; hammer throw
鏈球菌	streptococcus (genus of bacteria)
鏈環	chain link
鏈結	to link together; to connect (in a systematic or chain-like way); linkage
鏈表	linked list
鏈路	link
鏈路層	link layer
鏈軌	caterpillar track (propulsion system used on bulldozers etc)
鏈輪	sprocket
鏈鋸	chain saw
鏊	griddle; tava
鏊子	griddle
鏌	used in 鏌鋣|镆铘[Mo4 ye2]; (chemistry) moscovium
鏌鋣	Moye, the name of a legendary double-edged sword
鏐	fine gold
鏑	arrow or arrowhead (old)
鏖	violent fighting
鏖戰	bitter fighting; a violent battle
鏗	(onom.) clang; jingling of metals; to strike
鏗然	(literary) resonant
鏗鏘	sonorous; resounding; fig. resounding words
鏘	tinkling of small bells
鏚	battle-axe; Taiwan pr. [qi4]
鏜	noise of drums
鏝	side of coin without words; trowel
鏞	large bell
鏟	(bound form) spade; shovel
鏟土機	bulldozer; wheel loader
鏟子	shovel; spade; trowel; spatula (kitchen utensil)
鏟屎官	(neologism) (coll.) pet owner (lit. "official in charge of cleaning up poop")
鏟球	(soccer) to do a sliding tackle
鏟蹚	to hoe; to weed (between crop rows)
鏟車	front loader (vehicle)
鏟運機	carry-scraper
鏟運車	front loader (vehicle)
鏟雪車	snowplow
鏡	mirror; lens
鏡像	mirror image
鏡像站點	(computing) mirror site
鏡子	mirror
鏡架	eyeglasses frame; mirror support
鏡框	picture frame; spectacle frame
鏡框舞台	theatrical set
鏡湖區	Jinghu, a district of Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
鏡片	lens
鏡花	decorative mirror
鏡花水月	lit. flowers in a mirror and the moon reflected in the lake (idiom)
鏡花緣	Jinghua Yuan or Flowers in the Mirror, Qing novel of fantasy and erudition (early 19th century) by Li Ruzhen 李汝珍[Li3 Ru3 zhen1]
鏡頭	camera lens; camera shot (in a movie etc); scene
鏡頭語言	cinematic language (the visual grammar and techniques of filmmaking)
鏡鸞	to lose one's spouse
鏢	dart-like throwing weapon
鏢客	(old) armed escort (of travelers or merchants' caravans)
鏢局	(old) escort agency that provides protection of goods and valuables during transport
鏤	to engrave; to carve; hard steel
鏤刻	to carve; to engrave
鏤空	openwork; fretwork
鏦	spear; to plunge (with spear)
鏨	to engrave
鏨子	chisel
鏰	small coin; dime
鏵	plowshare; spade
鏷	protactinium (chemistry)
鏸	three edged spear; (used in given names)
鏹	money; string of coins
鏹水	(coll.) strong acid
鏻	phosphonium
鏽	to rust
鏽斑	rust spot; rust stain (on metal); rusty spot (on plants)
鏽紅腹旋木雀	(bird species of China) rusty-flanked treecreeper (Certhia nipalensis)
鏽胸藍姬鶲	(bird species of China) slaty-backed flycatcher (Ficedula erithacus)
鏽腹短翅鶇	(bird species of China) rusty-bellied shortwing (Brachypteryx hyperythra)
鏽臉鉤嘴鶥	(bird species of China) rusty-cheeked scimitar babbler (Erythrogenys erythrogenys)
鏽蝕	to rust away
鏽跡	rust stain
鏽額斑翅鶥	(bird species of China) rusty-fronted barwing (Actinodura egertoni)
鏾	the trigger of a crossbow; crossbow
鐃	big cymbals
鐄	bell
鐇	vanadium
鐏	butt end of spear
鐐	fetters; leg-irons; shackles
鐐銬	manacles and leg-irons; fetters and handcuffs
鐐鎖	fetter lock (to restrain horse); handcuff lock
鐒	lawrencium (chemistry)
鐓	upsetting (forged pieces)
鐔	guard (on a sword handle); pommel (on a sword handle); dagger
鐘	a (large) bell (CL:架[jia4]); clock (CL:座[zuo4])
鐘乳	stalactite
鐘乳石	stalactite
鐘室	bell chamber (at the top of a bell tower)
鐘山區	Zhongshan, a district of Liupanshui City 六盤水市|六盘水市[Liu4 pan2 shui3 Shi4], Guizhou
鐘山縣	Zhongshan, a county in Hezhou City 賀州市|贺州市[He4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
鐘擺	pendulum
鐘樂	bells
鐘樓	bell tower; campanile; clock tower
鐘樓區	Zhonglou, a district of Changzhou City 常州市[Chang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
鐘樓怪人	The Hunchback of Notre-Dame by Victor Hugo 維克多·雨果|维克多·雨果[Wei2 ke4 duo1 · Yu3 guo3]
鐘琴	glockenspiel
鐘罩	bell jar; dome (used to enclose or protect sth)
鐘聲	the sound of a bell
鐘表盤	clockface
鐘錶	clock
鐘面	clock face
鐘頭	(coll.) hour
鐘鳴漏盡	past one's prime; in one's declining years
鐘鳴鼎食	extravagant lifestyle
鐘點	hour; specified time
鐘點工	hourly worker; hourly job
鐘點房	hotel room rented at an hourly rate
鐘鼎文	bell-cauldron script
鐙	stirrup
鐙骨	stapes or stirrup bone of middle ear, passing sound vibration to the inner ear
鐝	(dialect) (bound form) mattock; hoe
鐝頭	(dialect) mattock; hoe
鐠	praseodymium (chemistry)
鐦	californium (chemistry)
鐧	ancient weapon like a long solid metal truncheon
鐨	fermium (chemistry)
鐩	(literary) brass mirror used to light a fire by focusing the sun's rays
鐫	to engrave (on wood or stone); to inscribe
鐫刻	to engrave
鐫心銘骨	etched in one's bones and heart (idiom); ever-present memory (esp. resentment)
鐫鏤	to engrave
鐫骨銘心	etched in one's bones and heart (idiom); ever-present memory (esp. resentment)
鐫黜	to dismiss an official
鐮	(bound form) sickle
鐮倉	Kamakura (city in Japan)
鐮倉幕府	Kamakura shogunate 1192-1333
鐮刀	sickle
鐮刀斧頭	the hammer and sickle (flag of USSR, symbolizing rural and proletarian labor)
鐮刀細胞貧血	sickle cell anemia
鐮狀紅血球貧血症	sickle-cell anemia
鐮狀細胞血症	sickle cell anemia
鐮翅雞	(bird species of China) Siberian grouse (Falcipennis falcipennis)
鐲	bracelet
鐲子	bracelet
鐳	radium (chemistry)
鐳射	laser (loanword); Taiwanese term for 激光[ji1 guang1]
鐳射印表機	laser printer
鐵	iron (metal); arms; weapons
鐵三	triathlon
鐵了心	determined; unshakable
鐵人	Ironman
鐵人三項	triathlon
鐵公雞	cheapskate; stingy person
鐵力市	Tieli, a county-level city in Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
鐵力木	ironwood (Mesua ferrea)
鐵匠	blacksmith; ironworker
鐵哥們	(coll.) very close male friends
鐵嘴沙鴴	(bird species of China) greater sand plover (Anarhynchus leschenaultii)
鐵器	hardware; ironware
鐵塔	iron tower
鐵子	(slang) very close friend; bro
鐵定	unalterable; certainly; definitely
鐵將軍把門	lit. General Iron is guarding the door (idiom)
鐵山區	Tieshan, a district of Huangshi City 黃石市|黄石市[Huang2 shi2 Shi4], Hubei
鐵山港區	Tieshangang, a district of Beihai City 北海市[Bei3 hai3 Shi4], Guangxi
鐵嶺市	Tieling, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
鐵嶺縣	Tieling, a county in Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
鐵帽子王	iron-cap prince in the Qing dynasty whose title can be passed on to subsequent generations without alteration
鐵幕	Iron Curtain (1945-1991) (In Taiwan, the word was used to refer to both the Iron Curtain and the Bamboo Curtain.)
鐵律	an iron law; a cast-iron rule
鐵打	made of iron; strong as iron
鐵打的衙門，流水的官	lit. the yamen is strong as iron, the officials flow like water (idiom)
鐵托	Marshal Josip Broz Tito (1892-1980), Yugoslav military and communist political leader, president of Yugoslavia 1945-1980
鐵拳	Tekken (video game)
鐵撬	crowbar
鐵木真	Temujin, birth name of Genghis Khan 成吉思汗[Cheng2 ji2 si1 han2]
鐵杉	Tsuga chinensis
鐵杖	steel staff; steel stick
鐵東區	Tiedong, a district of Siping City 四平市[Si4 ping2 Shi4], Jilin
鐵板	iron panel; hot iron plate for fast grilling (Japanese: teppan)
鐵板燒	teppanyaki
鐵板牛柳	fillet beef served sizzling on a hot iron plate
鐵板牛肉	beef grilled on a hot iron plate
鐵板茄子	eggplant served sizzling on a hot iron plate
鐵格子	iron lattice; metal grid
鐵桿	iron rod; zealous; die-hard
鐵桿粉絲	die-hard fan
鐵棒	iron club; steel rod
鐵樹	sago palm (Cycas revoluta)
鐵樹開花	lit. the iron tree blooms (idiom)
鐵欄	metal grille; railing; bars
鐵氟龍	(Tw) Teflon; polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE)
鐵水	molten iron
鐵爪鵐	(bird species of China) Lapland longspur (Calcarius lapponicus)
鐵爾梅茲	Termez city in southeast Uzbekistan
鐵球	kung fu balls
鐵琴	metallophone
鐵環	an iron ring
鐵甲	mail plating; armor; armor plating
鐵甲船	armored ship
鐵甲艦	ironclad; an armor-plated battleship
鐵甲車	armored car
鐵皮	galvanized iron sheet (for building construction)
鐵石	iron and stone
鐵石心腸	to have a heart of stone; hard-hearted; unfeeling
鐵砂	shot (in shotgun); pellets
鐵砧	anvil
鐵礦	iron ore; iron ore mine
鐵礦石	iron ore
鐵票	(Tw) a guaranteed vote; a vote from sb who consistently votes for a particular party or candidate in elections
鐵票區	(Tw) safe seat (in an election); stronghold (for a political party or candidate); a district in which a majority of voters consistently votes for a particular party or candidate
鐵窗	window with an iron grating (apartment etc)
鐵窗生活	time served in prison; prison life
鐵箍	iron hoop
鐵箱	metal trunk; metal box; a safe
鐵粉	(slang) hardcore fan (abbr. for 鐵桿粉絲|铁杆粉丝[tie3 gan3 fen3 si1])
鐵絲	iron wire; subway enthusiast (abbr. for 地鐵粉絲|地铁粉丝[di4 tie3 fen3 si1])
鐵絲網	wire netting
鐵罐	metal pot
鐵腕	iron fist (of the state)
鐵菱	(military) caltrop (spiky metal device laid on the ground to create a hazard for enemy horses or troops in ancient times)
鐵蒺藜	(military) caltrop
鐵蘭屬	(loanword) genus Tillandsia; air plants (more commonly known as 空氣鳳梨|空气凤梨[kong1 qi4 feng4 li2])
鐵蛋	iron egg, a Taiwanese snack made by stewing eggs in soy sauce and air-drying them each day for a week
鐵血	iron and blood; (fig.) weapons and war; bloody conflict
鐵血宰相	Iron Chancellor, refers to Otto von Bismarck (1815-1898), Prussian politician, minister-president of Prussia 1862-1873, Chancellor of Germany 1871-1890
鐵西區	Tiexi, a district of Siping City 四平市[Si4 ping2 Shi4], Jilin
鐵觀音	Tieguanyin tea (a variety of oolong tea)
鐵證	ironclad evidence; conclusive proof
鐵證如山	irrefutable evidence
鐵路	railroad; railway
鐵路線	railway line
鐵蹄	iron hoof (of the oppressor)
鐵軌	rail; railroad track
鐵軍	invincible army
鐵通	China Mobile Tietong, state-owned telecommunications operator (abbr. for 中移鐵通|中移铁通[Zhong1 yi2 Tie3 tong1])
鐵道	railway line; rail track
鐵道部	Ministry of Railways (MOR), disbanded in 2013 with its regulatory functions taken over by the Ministry of Transport 交通運輸部|交通运输部[Jiao1 tong1 Yun4 shu1 bu4]
鐵達尼號	RMS Titanic, British passenger liner that sank in 1912 (Tw)
鐵鈎	iron hook
鐵鋁土	ferralsol (soil taxonomy)
鐵鋒區	Tiefeng, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
鐵鍁	iron shovel; spade
鐵鍋	iron cooking pot
鐵鍬	spade; shovel
鐵鎂質	mafic rock (containing magnesium and iron, so comparatively heavy, making oceanic plates)
鐵鏈	iron chain
鐵鏽	rust
鐵鏽帶	Rust Belt
鐵青	livid; ashen (from rage, fear or illness)
鐵面	iron mask (as defensive armor); fig. upright and selfless person
鐵面無私	strictly impartial and incorruptible (idiom)
鐵飯碗	secure employment (lit. iron rice bowl)
鐵餅	(athletics) discus; discus throw
鐵馬	armored horse; cavalry; metal chimes hanging from eaves
鐵騎	armored horses; crack horsemen
鐵骨錚錚	(idiom) (of character) staunch; unyielding
鐵齒	(Tw) obstinate; argumentative; opinionated; skeptical of superstitions (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [thih-khí])
鐵齒銅牙	clever and eloquent speaker (idiom)
鐶	(ancient weight); metal ring
鐸	large ancient bell
鐺	clank; clang; sound of metal
鐺鐺	(onom.) clang; clank of metal; sound of striking a gong
鐺鐺車	(coll.) tram, especially Beijing trams during period of operation 1924-1956
鐻	(mus. instr.)
鐽	darmstadtium (chemistry)
鐾	to sharpen (a knife) on a stone or a strop; Taiwan pr. [bi4]
鐿	ytterbium (chemistry)
鑀	einsteinium (chemistry) (Tw); ionium (former name of thorium)
鑄	to cast or found metals
鑄件	a casting (i.e. sth cast in a mold)
鑄劍為犁	(idiom) to beat swords into plowshares; to turn from war to peace
鑄就	to cast; to forge; to form
鑄工	foundry work; foundry worker
鑄工車間	foundry (workshop or factory)
鑄幣	coin; to mint (coins)
鑄成	to cast in metal; (fig.) to forge; to fashion
鑄成大錯	to make a serious mistake (idiom)
鑄造	to cast (pour metal into a mold)
鑄銅	bronze casting
鑄鐵	pig iron; foundry iron
鑅	(onom.) for sound of bell (arch.)
鑊	wok (dialect); cauldron (old)
鑊氣	"wok hei", a distinctive smoky, charred, and slightly caramelized flavor imparted to food cooked in a wok over a high flame (orthographic borrowing from Cantonese, Jyutping: wok6 hei3)
鑌	fine steel
鑐	bolt of a Chinese lock
鑑	bronze mirror (used in ancient times); to reflect; to mirror
鑑價	to appraise; appraisal; valuation
鑑別	to differentiate; to distinguish
鑑定	to examine sth to determine its authenticity, quality, value etc; to appraise; to evaluate; to authenticate
鑑證	appraisal; verification; authentication
鑑識	to identify; to detect
鑑賞	to appreciate (as a connoisseur)
鑑黃	to inspect videos and other media for pornographic content
鑑黃師	content moderator specializing in pornographic material (both online and offline)
鑒往知來	to observe the past to foresee the future (idiom, taken loosely from Book of Songs); studying ancient wisdom gives insight into what is to come
鑒戒	lesson from events of the past; warning
鑒於	in view of; seeing that; considering
鑒權	(computing) authentication
鑒此	in light of this
鑒真	Jianzhen or Ganjin (688-763), Tang dynastic Buddhist monk, who crossed to Japan after several unsuccessful attempts, influential in Japanese Buddhism
鑒真和尚	Jianzhen or Ganjin (688-763), Tang Buddhist monk, who crossed to Japan after several unsuccessful attempts, influential in Japanese Buddhism
鑒賞家	connoisseur; appreciative person; fan
鑔	small cymbals
鑕	(executioner's) block
鑞	solder; tin
鑞箔	thin foil to make paper money for the dead
鑠	bright; to melt; to fuse
鑢	polishing tool
鑣	bit (of a bridle)
鑥	lutetium (chemistry)
鑪	rutherfordium (chemistry)
鑫	(used in names of people and shops, symbolizing prosperity)
鑭	lanthanum (chemistry)
鑭系元素	lanthanoid (rare earth series), namely: lanthanum La57 鑭|镧[lan2], cerium Ce58 鈰|铈[shi4], praseodymium Pr59 鐠|镨[pu3], neodymium Nd60 釹|钕[nu:3], promethium Pm61 鉕|钷[po3], samarium Sm62 釤|钐[shan1], europium Eu63 銪|铕[you3], gadolinium Gd64 釓|钆[ga2], terbium Tb65 鋱|铽[te4], dysprosium Dy66 鏑|镝[di1], holmium Ho67 鈥|钬[huo3], erbium Er68 鉺|铒[er3], thulium Tm69 銩|铥[diu1], ytterbium Yb70 鐿|镱[yi4], lutetium Lu71 鑥|镥[lu3]
鑯	awl; sharp iron point
鑰	key; also pr. [yao4]
鑰匙	key
鑰匙卡	keycard
鑰匙鏈	keychain
鑱	sharp instrument for digging
鑲	to inlay; to embed; ridge
鑲嵌	to inlay; to embed; to set (e.g. a jewel in a ring)
鑲牙	to have a false tooth set in; denture
鑲邊	edge; border; to edge (with lace, embroidery etc)
鑲金	gilded; inlaid with gold
鑲黃旗	Bordered Yellow banner or Hövööt Shar khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
鑴	to engrave or carve, as a block for printing
鑶	(onom.) (sound of a bell)
鑷	(bound form) tweezers
鑷子	tweezers; forceps
鑹	ice spud (aka ice chisel) with a pointy tip
鑹子	ice spud (aka ice chisel) with a pointy tip
鑼	gong
鑼聲	sound of gong
鑼鼓	gongs and drums; Chinese percussion instruments
鑼鼓點	Chinese percussion fixed pattern; percussion rhythm
鑼齊鼓不齊	(idiom) not well coordinated
鑽	to drill; to bore; to get into
鑽井	to drill (e.g. for oil); a borehole
鑽井平台	(oil) drilling platform
鑽勁	application to the task
鑽卡	drill chuck
鑽圈	jumping through hoops (as acrobatic show)
鑽堅仰高	lit. looking up to it, it gets higher; boring into it, it gets harder (idiom) (from Analects)
鑽壓	pressure on a drill bit
鑽孔	to bore a hole; to drill; drilled hole
鑽床	drilling machine; drill press
鑽心	to sneak in; to infiltrate; to be piercingly painful
鑽心蟲	boring insect
鑽戒	diamond ring
鑽探	to conduct exploratory drilling
鑽探機	drilling machine
鑽故紙堆	to dig into piles of outdated writings (idiom); to study old books and papers
鑽木取火	to drill wood to make fire
鑽桌子	to crawl under a table (e.g. as a forfeit for losing a bet or card game); to hide under a table
鑽機	drilling machine
鑽洞	to bore; to burrow; to crawl through a tunnel
鑽營	toadying for personal gain; to curry favor; to study in great depth
鑽版	to cut a woodblock (e.g. for printing)
鑽牛角	lit. honing a bull's horn; fig. to waste time on an insoluble or insignificant problem
鑽牛角尖	lit. to penetrate into a bull's horn (idiom); fig. to waste time on an insoluble or insignificant problem
鑽眼	to drill a hole; drilling
鑽石	diamond
鑽石婚	diamond wedding
鑽石王老五	highly eligible bachelor; desirable male partner
鑽研	to study meticulously; to delve into
鑽空子	to take advantage of a loophole; to exploit an advantage; to seize the opportunity (esp. to do sth bad)
鑽粉	residue from drilling; slag hill
鑽謀	to use influence to get what one wants
鑽進	to get into; to dig into (studies, job etc); to squeeze into
鑽頭	drill bit
鑾	imperial
鑾駕	imperial chariot
鑿	(bound form) chisel; to bore a hole; to chisel; to dig
鑿井	to dig a well
鑿壁偷光	lit. to pierce the wall to steal a light (idiom)
鑿子	chisel
鑿岩	(rock) drilling
鑿岩機	rock drill
鑿死鉚子	(dialect) stubborn; obstinate; inflexible
鑿沉	to scuttle (a ship)
鑿石場	rock quarry
鑿空	to open an aperture; (extended meaning) to cut a way through
钂	ancient weapon resembling a pitchfork
钃	metal
锺	nonstandard simplified variant of 鍾|钟[zhong1]
長	long; (bound form) length; (bound form) strong point; forte
長三	(old) high-class prostitute
長三角	Yangtze River Delta (abbr. for 長江三角洲|长江三角洲[Chang2 jiang1 San1 jiao3 zhou1])
長三角經濟區	Yangtze River Delta Economic Zone (economic region including Shanghai, Zhejiang and Jiangsu)
長久	long-time; long-term; lasting; enduring; permanent; for a long time
長久以來	for a long time now; long since
長倉	long position (finance)
長假	long vacation
長兄	eldest brother
長凳	pew; bench
長出	to sprout (leaves, buds, a beard etc)
長勢	how well a crop (or plant) is growing; growth
長印魚	shark sucker (Echeneis naucrates)
長吁短嘆	long moan and short gasp (idiom); continually moaning and groaning in pain
長命	long-lived
長命富貴	We wish you long life and riches! (idiom, conventional greeting)
長命百歲	(idiom) to live to be a hundred years old (often used as a blessing or wish for longevity)
長嘆	long sigh; deep sigh
長嘴劍鴴	(bird species of China) long-billed plover (Charadrius placidus)
長嘴地鶇	(bird species of China) dark-sided thrush (Zoothera marginata)
長嘴捕蛛鳥	(bird species of China) little spiderhunter (Arachnothera longirostra)
長嘴斑海雀	(bird species of China) long-billed murrelet (Brachyramphus perdix)
長嘴百靈	(bird species of China) Tibetan lark (Melanocorypha maxima)
長嘴鉤嘴鶥	(bird species of China) large scimitar babbler (Erythrogenys hypoleucos)
長嘴鷯鶥	(bird species of China) long-billed wren-babbler (Napothera malacoptila)
長嘴鷸	(bird species of China) long-billed dowitcher (Limnodromus scolopaceus)
長坂坡七進七出	famous scene in Romance of the Three Kingdoms in which Zhao Yun 趙雲|赵云 charges seven times through the ranks of Cao Cao's armies
長垣市	Changyuan, a county-level city in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
長城	the Great Wall
長城飯店	Great Wall Hotel (Beijing Sheraton 喜來登|喜来登)
長壽	longevity; long-lived
長壽區	Changshou, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
長多	good prospects in the long term (finance)
長夜	long dark night; fig. long period of misery and oppression
長夜漫漫	endless night (idiom); fig. long suffering
長夜難明	lit. many nights under a harsh moon; long years of oppression (idiom)
長大	to grow up
長女	eldest daughter
長姊	older sister
長子	eldest son
長子縣	Zhangzi, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
長存	to last for a long time; to endure; to exist forever
長孫	eldest grandson; the eldest son of one's eldest son
長孫無忌	Zhangsun Wuji (c. 594-659), politician and historian of early Tang
長安	Chang'an (ancient name of Xi'an 西安[Xi1 an1]), capital of several Chinese dynasties from 202 BC to 907 CE
長安區	Chang'an, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
長安大學	Chang'an University
長官	senior official; senior officer; commanding officer
長寧	Changning County in Yibin 宜賓|宜宾[Yi2 bin1], Sichuan
長寧區	Changning district, central Shanghai
長寧縣	Changning, a county in Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
長寬	length and width; size; dimensions
長尾	long tail
長尾地鶇	(bird species of China) long-tailed thrush (Zoothera dixoni)
長尾夜鷹	(bird species of China) large-tailed nightjar (Caprimulgus macrurus)
長尾奇鶥	(bird species of China) long-tailed sibia (Heterophasia picaoides)
長尾山椒鳥	(bird species of China) long-tailed minivet (Pericrocotus ethologus)
長尾朱雀	(bird species of China) long-tailed rosefinch (Carpodacus sibiricus)
長尾林鴞	(bird species of China) Ural owl (Strix uralensis)
長尾縫葉鶯	(bird species of China) common tailorbird (Orthotomus sutorius)
長尾賊鷗	(bird species of China) long-tailed jaeger (Stercorarius longicaudus)
長尾闊嘴鳥	(bird species of China) long-tailed broadbill (Psarisomus dalhousiae)
長尾鴨	(bird species of China) long-tailed duck (Clangula hyemalis)
長尾鷯鶥	(bird species of China) grey-bellied wren-babbler (Spelaeornis reptatus)
長尾鸚鵡	(bird species of China) long-tailed parakeet (Psittacula longicauda)
長山山脈	Annamite Range, aka Annamese Cordillera, mountain range forming the border between Vietnam and Laos
長島冰茶	Long Island Iced Tea
長崎	Nagasaki (city in Japan)
長嶺縣	Changling, a county in Songyuan City 松原市[Song1 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
長平	Changping, place name in Gaoping County 高平縣|高平县, southern Shanxi, the scene of the great battle of 262-260 BC between Qin and Zhao
長平之戰	Battle of Changping of 260 BC, at which the Qin army 秦軍|秦军[Qin2 jun1] encircled and annihilated a Zhao army of 400,000
長年	all the year round
長年累月	year in, year out (idiom); (over) many years
長幼	older and younger; seniority
長庚	Classical Chinese name for planet Venus in the west after dusk
長度	length
長度單位	unit of length
長廊	promenade; long hallway
長弓	longbow
長征	Long March (retreat of the Red Army 1934-1935)
長得	to look (pretty, the same etc)
長情	to have an enduring and faithful love for sb or sth
長成	to grow up
長技	special skill
長拳	Changquan - Northern Shaolin (北少林) - Longfist - Martial Art
長按	to long press (a button)
長掌義縣龍	Yixianosaurus longimanus, theropod dinosaur from Yi county 義縣|义县, Jinzhou 錦州|锦州, west Liaoning
長揖	to bow deeply, starting upright with arms straight out in front, one hand cupped in the other, then moving the hands down to one's knees as one bows, keeping the arms straight (a form of greeting)
長效	to be effective over an extended period
長新冠	long COVID
長方形	rectangle
長方體	cuboid
長於	to be adept in; to excel at
長明燈	altar lamp burning day and night
長春市	Changchun, sub-provincial city and capital of Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
長期	long-term; for a protracted period
長期以來	for a long time
長期共存	long-term coexistence
長期性	long-term
長期飯票	(fig.) guarantee of financial support for the rest of one's life
長板	longboard
長柄	long handle; stem
長柄鐮刀	scythe
長條	strip
長棍	baguette
長椅	bench
長榮	Evergreen (Group), Taiwan-based shipping and transportation conglomerate
長榮海運	Evergreen Marine Corp. (Taiwan shipping line)
長榮航空	EVA Air, Taiwanese international airline
長槍	pike
長槍短炮	camera (jocular)
長樂	Princess Changle of Western Wei of the Northern Dynasties 西魏[Xi1 Wei4], given in marriage c. 545 to Bumin Khan 土門|土门[Tu3 men2]
長樂公主	Princess Changle of Western Wei of the Northern dynasties 西魏[Xi1 Wei4], given in marriage c. 545 to Bumin Khan 土門|土门[Tu3 men2]
長樂區	Changle, a district of Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
長樂未央	endless happiness (idiom)
長機	(military) lead aircraft
長武縣	Changwu, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
長殘	(slang) to grow up unattractive; to lose one's looks as one grows older
長毛	(derog.) the Longhairs (Taiping rebels of the 19th century)
長毛絨	(textiles) plush
長毛象	woolly mammoth
長汀縣	Changting, a county in Longyan City 龍巖市|龙岩市[Long2 yan2 Shi4], Fujian
長江	Yangtze River, or Chang Jiang
長江三峽	Three Gorges or Yangtze Gorges, namely: Qutang Gorge 瞿塘峽|瞿塘峡[Qu2 tang2 Xia2], Wuxia Gorge 巫峽|巫峡[Wu1 Xia2] and Xiling Gorge 西陵峽|西陵峡[Xi1 ling2 Xia2]
長江三角洲	Yangtze River Delta
長江三角洲經濟區	Yangtze River Delta Economic Zone (economic region including Shanghai, Zhejiang and Jiangsu)
長江後浪推前浪	lit. the rear waves of the Yangtze River drive on those before (idiom)
長江流域	Changjiang or Yangtze river basin
長江經濟帶	Yangtze River Economic Belt
長沙市	Changsha, prefecture-level city and capital of Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
長沙灣	Cheung Sha Wan (poultry market in Hong Kong)
長沙縣	Changsha, a county in Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
長河	long river; (fig.) long flow of time
長治久安	long-term peace and stability (of governments)
長治市	Changzhi, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
長波	longwave (radio)
長泰區	Changtai, a district of Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
長洲區	Changzhou, a district of Wuzhou City 梧州市[Wu2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
長流水，不斷線	continuous and patient effort (idiom)
長海縣	Changhai, a county in Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
長清區	Changqing, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
長滿	to grow all over
長漂	rafting on the Yangtze River (abbr. for 長江漂流|长江漂流[Chang2 Jiang1 piao1 liu2])
長煙	endless mist
長照	(Tw) (social welfare) long-term care (abbr. for 長期照顧|长期照顾[chang2 qi1 zhao4 gu5])
長片	feature-length film
長牙	to grow teeth; to teethe; growing teeth
長物	(literary) things other than the bare necessities of life
長班	(old) footman; servant
長生	long life
長生不死	immortality
長生不老	(idiom) to live forever and never grow old
長生久視	(idiom) to live forever and never grow old
長生果	(dialect) peanut
長生祿位	tablet in honor of a person who is still alive (or was alive when the tablet was created)
長男	eldest son
長痛不如短痛	better to just get the pain over with, rather than prolong the agony
長白山	Changbai or Baekdu mountains 白頭山|白头山, volcanic mountain range between Jilin province and North Korea, prominent in Manchu and Korean mythology
長白山天池	Changbaishan Tianchi, volcanic crater lake on the border between China and North Korea
長白朝鮮族自治縣	Changbai Korean Autonomous County, in Baishan City 白山市[Bai2 shan1 Shi4], Jilin
長相	appearance; looks; profile
長相廝守	(of a couple) to stay together for life
長相思	Sauvignon blanc (grape type)
長眠	(euphemism) to rest eternally; to lie buried in (one's final resting place)
長眼	to have eyes
長矛	pike; lance
長知識	to acquire knowledge
長短	length; accident; mishap
長石	(mineralogy) feldspar
長空	(literary) the vast sky; (finance) eventual downturn
長笛	(Western) concert flute
長筒襪	stockings; thigh-highs
長筒靴	tall boots
長篇	lengthy (report or speech)
長篇小說	novel; full-length novel
長篇累牘	(of a text) very lengthy (idiom)
長籼	long-grained rice (Indian rice, as opposed to round-grained rice)
長統襪	stockings
長線	long term
長老	elder; term of respect for a Buddhist monk
長老會	Presbyterianism
長者	an elder; a senior
長耳鴞	(bird species of China) long-eared owl (Asio otus)
長肉	to put on weight
長胖	to get fat; to gain weight
長腳秧雞	(bird species of China) corn crake (Crex crex)
長臂猿	gibbon; Hylobatidae (gibbon and lesser ape family)
長臉	(coll.) to bring credit to (sb); to do (sb) proud
長至	the summer solstice
長興縣	Changxing, a county in Huzhou City 湖州市[Hu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
長舌	loquacious; to have a loose tongue
長舌婦	female gossip; busybody
長草區	the rough (golf)
長葛市	Changge, a county-level city in Xuchang City 許昌市|许昌市[Xu3 chang1 Shi4], Henan
長處	good aspects; strong points
長號	trombone
長虹	Changhong (brand)
長蛇座	Hydra (constellation)
長蛇陣	single-line formation (army); fig. long line
長蟲	(of food, books etc) to become infested with bugs
長衫	long gown; cheongsam
長袍	chang pao (traditional Chinese men's robe); gown; robe
長袖	long sleeves; long-sleeved shirt
長袖善舞	long sleeves help one dance beautifully (idiom); money and power will help you in any occupation
長裙	long skirt; full-length skirt
長褲	trousers
長襪	hose; stocking
長見識	to gain knowledge and experience
長角羊	Tibetan long horned antelope
長記性	(coll.) to learn one's lesson; to have enough sense to learn from one's mistakes
長詩	long poem
長話短說	(idiom) to make a long story short; to keep it brief
長談	a long talk
長谷川	Hasegawa (Japanese surname)
長豐縣	Changfeng, a county in Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
長贅疣	to vegetate
長足	remarkable (progress, improvement, expansion etc)
長足進步	rapid progress
長趾濱鷸	(bird species of China) long-toed stint (Calidris subminuta)
長跑	long-distance running
長跑運動員	long-distance runner
長距離	long-distance
長跪	to kneel as in prayer (without sitting back on the heels)
長輩	one's elders; older generation
長輩圖	(Internet slang) boomer meme (Tw)
長轡遠馭	to control from a distance (idiom)
長途	long distance
長途汽車	long-distance coach
長途話費	(telephony) long-distance call charge
長途跋涉	long and difficult trek
長途車	long-distance bus
長途電話	long-distance phone call
長逝	to depart this life; to be no more
長進	to make progress; progress
長達	to extend as long as; to lengthen out to
長遠	long-term; long-range
長野	(Japanese surname) Nagano; Nagano (prefecture and city in Japan)
長釘	spike
長針	minute hand (of a clock or watch); double crochet
長開	to grow into one's looks; (of a young person) to develop more attractive facial features as one grows older
長陽土家族自治縣	Changyang Tujia Autonomous County, in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
長隊	line (i.e. of people waiting); queue
長青	(literary) evergreen; enduring (friendship etc)
長靴	boot
長順縣	Changshun, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
長頸瓶	flask
長頸鹿	giraffe
長頸龍	tanystropheus, long-necked reptile from Triassic
長風破浪	lit. to ride the wind and crest the waves
長驅直入	to march straight in unchallenged (military) (idiom)
長高	to grow taller
長髮	long hair
長點心眼	to watch out; to keep one's wits about one
長鼻猴	proboscis monkey (Nasalis larvatus), aka long-nosed monkey
長鼻目	order Proboscidea (elephants and mammoths)
長龍	long queue; long line (of cars, people etc)
镸	"long" or "to grow" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 168)
镻	name of poisonous snake in ancient text
門	gate; door; doorway; gateway; opening (CL:扇[shan4])
門人	disciple; follower; hanger-on (at an aristocrat's home)
門冬	abbr. for 天門冬|天门冬[tian1 men2 dong1], asparagus
門到門	door to door
門前	in front of the door
門卡	keycard
門口	doorway; gate
門可羅雀	(lit.) you can net sparrows at the door (idiom)
門吸	doorstop
門墊	doormat
門墩	wooden or stone block supporting the axle of a door
門外	outside the door
門外漢	layman
門子	door; doorman (old); hanger-on of an aristocrat
門客	hanger-on; visitor (in a nobleman's house)
門將	official gatekeeper; goalkeeper (soccer, hockey etc)
門對	couplet (hung on each side of the door frame)
門崗	gate
門巴	Monba ethnic group
門巴族	Monba ethnic group
門市	retail sales; retail outlet; store
門市部	retail department; section of a retail store
門店	(retail) store
門庭若市	front yard as busy as a marketplace (idiom)
門廊	stoop; parvis; portico
門廳	entrance hall; vestibule
門徑	access
門徒	disciple
門戶	door; strategic gateway; portal
門戶之見	sectarian bias; parochialism
門戶網站	web portal
門戶開放	open door policy
門房	gatehouse; lodge; gatekeeper
門扇	door; the opening panel of a door
門把	door knob; door handle; also pr. [men2 ba4]
門把手	door knob; door handle
門捷列夫	Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev (1834-1907), Russian chemist who introduced the periodic table
門擋	doorstop
門望	family prestige
門柱	doorpost
門框	door frame
門楣	lintel (of a door); fig. family's social status
門檻	doorstep; sill; threshold
門洞	passageway; archway
門派	sect; school (group of followers of a particular doctrine)
門源回族自治縣	Menyuan Hui Autonomous County, in Haibei Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海北藏族自治州[Hai3 bei3 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
門牌	door plate; house number
門牙	front tooth; incisor
門球	croquet; goal ball (served by the goal keeper)
門環	door knocker (in the shape of a ring)
門生	disciple; student (of a famous master)
門當戶對	the families are well-matched in terms of social status (idiom)
門碰	doorstop
門神	door god
門票	ticket (for theater, cinema etc)
門禁	restrictions on entry and exiting; control over access
門禁卡	keycard; electronic entrance card
門童	doorman; bell boy
門第	family status
門縫	slight gap between a door and its frame
門羅	Monroe (name); James Monroe (1758-1831), fifth US president
門羅主義	Monroe Doctrine
門聯	couplet (hung on each side of the door frame)
門臉	shop front; facade
門興格拉德巴赫	Mönchengladbach (city in Germany)
門薩	Mensa (loanword)
門號	door number; (Tw) mobile phone number
門衛	guard at gate; sentry
門診	outpatient service
門診室	clinic; outpatient department (or consulting room)
門診部	outpatient department
門路	way of doing sth; the right social connection
門道	the way to do sth; knack
門釦	door latch
門鈴	doorbell
門鉸	door hinge
門鎖	door lock
門閂	horizontal bar to hold a door closed (made of wood or metal)
門閥	rich and powerful family
門限	doorsill
門階	doorstep; threshold
門面	shop front; facade; prestige
門頭溝區	Mentougou, a district of Beijing
門額	area above the lintel of a doorway
門類	category; kind; class
門風	family tradition; family principles
門首	doorway; gate; entrance
門齒	incisor
閂	bolt; latch; to bolt
閃	to dodge; to duck out of the way; to beat it
閃亮	brilliant; shiny; a flare
閃人	(coll.) to beat it; to take French leave
閃光	flash
閃光彈	flashbang; stun grenade
閃光燈	flash bulb (photography)
閃光膠	glitter glue
閃光點	lit. flash point; crucial point; essential point
閃出	to flash; to sparkle; to appear suddenly
閃動	to flicker or flash
閃卡	flashcard
閃含語系	Hamito-Semitic family of languages (incl. Arabic, Aramaic, Hebrew etc)
閃回	flashback; to flash back
閃失	mishap; accident; accidental loss
閃婚	to get married soon after meeting (abbr. for 閃電結婚|闪电结婚[shan3 dian4 jie2 hun1]) (neologism c. 2005)
閃存	(computing) flash memory
閃存盤	USB flash drive; thumb drive
閃射	to radiate; to shine; glitter of light
閃念	sudden idea; flash of thought
閃擊	lightning attack; Blitzkrieg
閃擊戰	lightning war; Blitzkrieg
閃族	the Semites
閃映	to flash before one's eyes; to flicker
閃灼	to glitter
閃熠	to flare; to flash
閃燃	flashover
閃爆	to flash-explode; flash explosion (caused by ignition of accumulated flammable gas or combustible dust)
閃爍	to glisten; to glitter; to twinkle; to flicker
閃爍其詞	to speak evasively (idiom); beating about the bush
閃爍體	(physics) scintillator
閃現	to flash
閃痛	stabbing pain; intermittent flash of pain
閃眼	to dazzle; to blink at; to open one's eyes wide
閃石	amphibole (silicate rock-forming mineral)
閃米特	Semitic
閃耀	to glint; to glitter; to sparkle
閃語	Semitic language
閃讓	to jump out of the way
閃身	to dodge
閃躲	to dodge; to evade
閃輝	scintillation
閃轉騰挪	to move nimbly about, dodging and weaving (martial arts)
閃退	(of an app) to crash
閃過	to flash through (one's mind); to dodge (away from pursuers)
閃避	to dodge; to sidestep
閃閃	flickering; sparkling; glistening; glittering
閃開	to get out of the way
閃離	to get divorced shortly after marriage
閃電	lightning
閃電戰	blitzkrieg; blitz
閃電結婚	to get married soon after meeting
閃露	to reveal momentarily
閃靈	The Shining (1980 Stanley Kubrick film from Stephen King's 1977 novel)
閃點	flash point (chemistry)
閆	surname Yan
閈	gate of a village
閉	to close; to stop up; to shut
閉上	to close; to shut up
閉上嘴巴	Shut up!
閉元音	close vowel
閉包	closure (math.)
閉區間	closed interval (in calculus)
閉卷考試	closed-book examination
閉口不言	to keep silent (idiom)
閉口不談	to refuse to say anything about (idiom); to remain tight-lipped
閉合	to close by coming together (like the lips of a wound, the doors of an elevator, the walls of a channel)
閉嘴	Shut up!; same as 閉上嘴巴|闭上嘴巴
閉域	closed domain
閉塞	to stop up; to close up; hard to get to
閉塞眼睛捉麻雀	lit. to catch sparrows blindfolded (idiom); fig. to act blindly
閉子集	closed subset (math.)
閉幕	the curtain falls; lower the curtain; to come to an end (of a meeting)
閉幕式	closing ceremony
閉幕詞	closing speech (at the conclusion of a conference, sports tournament etc)
閉會	close a meeting
閉會祈禱	benediction
閉月羞花	lit. hiding the moon, shaming the flowers (idiom)
閉殼肌	adductor muscle (of a bivalve mollusk)
閉源	(computing) closed-source
閉環	closed loop
閉目塞聽	to shut one's eyes and stop one's ears; out of touch with reality
閉目養神	to relax with one's eyes closed
閉眼	to close one's eyes; (fig.) to die; to pass away
閉經	amenorrhoea
閉著	closed
閉起	to shut
閉路電視	closed-circuit television
閉鎖	to lock
閉鎖期	lock-up period (on stock options)
閉門	to close a door
閉門不出	(idiom) to stay shut up at home; to not go out
閉門塞竇	to close doors and block openings (idiom); mounting a strict defense
閉門思過	shut oneself up and ponder over one's mistakes
閉門會議	closed-door meeting
閉門羹	(fig.) denial of entry; flat refusal; cold rebuff
閉門覓句	lit. lock the door and search for the right word (idiom); fig. the serious hard work of writing
閉門造車	lit. to shut oneself away and build a cart (idiom)
閉關	to close the passes; to seal off the country
閉關政策	closed-door policy
閉關自守	close the country to international intercourse
閉關鎖國	to close the passes and seal off the country
閉集	closed set (math.)
閉音節	closed syllable
閉館	(of libraries, museums etc) to be closed
閉麥	to switch one's microphone to "mute"; (fig.) to go silent
開	to open (transitive or intransitive)
開三次方	(math.) to extract a cube root
開交	(used with negative) to conclude; (impossible) to end; (can't) finish
開仗	to start a war; to open hostilities
開伙	to cook meals; (of a canteen or mess) to be operating; to serve meals
開伯爾	Khyber province of Pakistan; Northwest Frontier province
開伯爾山口	Khyber pass (between Pakistand and Afghanistan)
開例	to create a precedent
開倒車	to drive in reverse; fig. to take a backward step; retrogressive
開價	to quote a price; seller's first offer
開元	Tang emperor Xuanzong's 唐玄宗[Tang2 Xuan2 zong1] reign name used during the Kaiyuan era (713-741), a peak of Tang prosperity
開先	at first
開光	eye-opening ceremony for a religious idol (Buddhism); to consecrate
開具	to draw up (a document)
開凍	to thaw; to melt
開刀	(of a surgeon) to perform an operation
開刃	to edge a knife, scissor, sword etc
開列	to make (a list); to list
開初	at the outset; at first; early
開創	to initiate; to start; to found
開創性	innovative
開動	to start; to set in motion; to move
開化	to become civilized; to be open-minded; (of ice) to thaw
開化縣	Kaihua, a county in Quzhou City 衢州市[Qu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
開區間	open interval (in calculus)
開印	to start a print run
開卷	to open a book; open-book (exam)
開卷有益	lit. opening a book is profitable (idiom); the benefits of education
開原市	Kaiyuan, a county-level city in Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
開口	to open one's mouth; to start to talk
開口子	a dike breaks; fig. to provide facilities (for evil deeds)
開口成髒	(Internet slang) to use foul language (pun on 出口成章[chu1 kou3 cheng2 zhang1])
開司米	(loanword) cashmere
開吃	to start eating
開合	to open and close
開味	whet the appetite
開啟	to start; to begin; to initiate (an era, process, journey etc)
開單	to bill; to open a tab
開國	to found a state; to open a closed country
開國元勛	founding father; fig. also used of company, school etc
開國元勳	founding figure (of a country or dynasty); founding father
開國功臣	outstanding founding minister (title given to reward loyal general or vassal of new dynasty or state)
開地	to clear land (for cultivation); to open up land
開城	Kaesong or Gaeseong city in southwest North Korea, close to the border with South Korea and a special economic zone for South Korean companies
開城市	Kaesong or Gaeseong city in southwest North Korea, close to the border with South Korea and a special economic zone for South Korean companies
開埠	to open up a port for trade; to open treaty ports
開堂	to open a law court; to set up a mourning hall
開場	to begin; to open; to start
開場白	prologue of play; opening remarks
開塞露	glycerin enema
開墾	to clear a wild area for cultivation; to put under the plow
開士米	(loanword) cashmere
開壺	to season a new teapot before first use
開外	over and above (some amount); beyond (budget)
開夜車	to burn the midnight oil; to work late into the night
開大油門	to open the throttle; to accelerate; to let her rip
開天窗	to leave a blank to mark censored area
開天闢地	(lit.) to split heaven and earth apart (refers to the Pangu 盤古|盘古[Pan2 gu3] creation myth) (idiom)
開始	to begin; to start; beginning; start
開學	(of a student) to start school; (of a semester) to begin
開宗明義	to declare at the outset (idiom)
開封	to open (sth that has been sealed)
開封市	Kaifeng, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
開封府	Kaifeng as the capital of Northern Song dynasty
開導	to talk sb round; to straighten sth out; to enlighten
開小差	to be absent-minded; to desert; to abscond from the army
開小會	to whisper and chat (instead of listening during a meeting or lecture)
開小灶	to give preferential treatment; to give special attention
開局	opening (chess etc); early stage of game, match, work, activity etc
開屏	(a peacock) spreads its tail
開展	to launch; to develop; to unfold
開山	to cut into a mountain (to open a mine); to open a monastery
開山刀	machete
開山祖師	founding master of a monastery; founder; originator
開山鼻祖	founder
開州區	Kaizhou, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
開工	to begin work (of a factory or engineering operation)
開市	(of a store, stock market etc) to open for trading
開市客	Costco (warehouse club chain)
開幕	to open (a conference); to inaugurate
開幕典禮	opening ceremony
開幕式	opening ceremony
開幕詞	opening speech (at a conference)
開平區	Kaiping, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
開平市	Kaiping, a county-level city in Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
開年	beginning of a year
開店	to open shop
開庭	to begin a (judicial) court session
開弓	to draw a bow; to pull back a bowstring
開弓不放箭	lit. to draw the bow without shooting the arrow (idiom); fig. to bluff
開弓沒有回頭箭	lit. once you've shot the arrow, there's no getting it back (idiom)
開弔	to hold memorial service; to hold a funeral
開張	to open a business; first transaction of a business day
開往	(of a bus, train etc) to leave for; heading for
開後門	to open the back door; fig. under the counter
開徵	to start collecting taxes
開心	to feel happy; to rejoice; to have a great time
開心果	pistachio nuts; fig. amusing person
開心顏	to rejoice; smiling
開快車	to drive at high speed; (fig.) rush through one's work
開恩	to give a favor (used of Christian God)
開悟	to become enlightened (Buddhism)
開懷	to one's heart's content; without restraint
開戒	to end abstinence; to resume (drinking) after a break
開戰	to start a war; to make war; to battle against
開戲	to start an opera
開戶	to open an account (bank etc)
開房間	to rent a room in a hotel
開打	(of a sports competition or match) to commence
開拍	to begin shooting (a movie, a scene of a movie etc)
開拓	to break new ground (for agriculture); to open up (a new seam)
開拓性	pioneering; groundbreaking
開拓者	pioneer
開拔	to set out (of troops); departure; start date (of military expedition)
開挖	to dig out; to excavate; to scoop out; to start digging
開掘	to dig; to excavate
開掛	to cheat in an online game (abbr. for 開外掛|开外挂[kai1 wai4 gua4])
開採	to extract (ore or other resource from a mine); to exploit; to mine
開播	(agriculture) to begin sowing
開支	expenditures; expenses (CL:筆|笔[bi3],項|项[xiang4]); to spend money
開放	to bloom; to open; to be open (to the public)
開放式系統	open system(s)
開放式網絡	open network
開放性	openness
開放源碼	(computing) open-source
開放源碼軟件	open-source software (OSS)
開放系統	open system
開放系統互連	open systems interconnection; OSI
開敗	to wither and fall
開敞	wide open
開方	(medicine) to write out a prescription
開明	enlightened; open-minded; enlightenment
開明君主	enlightened sovereign
開映	to start showing a movie
開春	beginning of spring; the lunar New Year
開普勒	Johannes Kepler (1571-1630), German astronomer and formulator of Kepler's laws of planetary motion
開普敦	Cape Town (city in South Africa)
開晴	to brighten up
開暢	happy and carefree
開曠	open and vast
開曼群島	Cayman Islands
開會	to hold a meeting; to attend a meeting
開服	to start the servers (for an online game, typically after the system has been shut down for maintenance, upgrade etc)
開朗	spacious and well-lit; open and clear; (of character) optimistic
開本	book format based on how a full printing sheet is cut or folded (often abbreviated to 開|开[kai1] after a numeral, e.g. 16-kai and 32-kai, roughly A4 and A5 respectively)
開杆	(of a snooker competition or golf tournament) to start; to kick off
開架	open shelves (in self-service store or user access library)
開業	to open a business; to open a practice; open (for business)
開業大吉	celebration on opening a business
開槍	to open fire; to shoot a gun
開機	to start an engine; to boot up (a computer); to press Ctrl-Alt-Delete
開步	to step forward; to walk
開水	boiled water; boiling water
開水壺	kettle
開江縣	Kaijiang, a county in Dazhou City 達州市|达州市[Da2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
開河	to open a river; to dig a canal; to thaw (of river)
開河期	thawing and opening up of frozen river in spring
開涮	(coll.) to make fun of; to tease; to rib
開源	to establish additional sources of revenue
開源節流	lit. to open a water source and reduce outflow (idiom); to increase income and save on spending
開源軟件	open-source software
開溜	to leave in stealth; to slip away
開滿	to bloom abundantly
開演	(of a play, movie etc) to begin
開漳聖王	Sacred King, founder of Zhangzhou, posthumous title of Tang dynasty general Chen Yuanguang (657-711) 陳元光|陈元光[Chen2 Yuan2 guang1]
開火	to open fire; to start shooting; to light the flame (for cooking)
開燈	to turn on the light
開爐	to open a furnace; to start up a furnace
開爾文	Lord Kelvin 1824-1907, British physicist (William Thomson)
開犁	to start plowing; to plow the first furrow
開獎	to announce the winners in a lottery
開玩笑	to play a joke; to make fun of; to joke
開球	open ball (math.); to start a ball game; to kick off (soccer)
開瓢	(coll.) to crack sb's head open (often humorous)
開瓶器	bottle opener
開瓶費	corkage fee
開疆	to pioneer a frontier area; to open up new territory
開疆拓土	(idiom) to expand one's territory; to conquer new lands; (fig.) to expand one's business into new markets
開發	to exploit (a resource); to open up (for development); to develop
開發人員	developer
開發區	development zone
開發周期	development cycle; development period; also written 開發週期|开发周期
開發商	developer (of real estate, a commercial product etc)
開發者	developer
開發週期	development cycle; development period
開發銀行	development bank
開皌	to receive condolences
開盒	(slang) to dox
開盤	to commence trading (stock market)
開盤匯率	opening exchange rate
開眼	to open one's eyes; to widen one's horizons
開眼界	to broaden one's horizons
開砲	to open fire
開礦	to mine; to open a seam
開示	to instruct (novices); to preach; to teach; to reveal
開票	to open ballot boxes; to count votes
開禁	to lift a ban; to lift a curfew
開福區	Kaifu, a district of Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
開竅	to get it straight; to start to understand things properly
開立	to set up; to open (an account, a branch store etc)
開站	to put a new bus or railway station into operation
開端	start; beginning
開筆	to start learning as a poet; to write one's first (poem, essay etc)
開筵	to host a banquet
開箱	unboxing; to unbox
開篇	start of literary work
開紅盤	(of a store) to open for business for the first time in the New Year
開綠燈	to give the green light; to give the go-ahead
開綻	to come unsewn
開線	to come unsewn; to split at the seam
開罐器	can opener
開罪	to offend sb; to give offense; to displease
開罰單	to issue an infringement notice
開罵	to launch into an angry tirade; to start berating sb
開羅	Cairo, capital of Egypt
開羅大學	Cairo University
開考	to begin an exam
開胃	to whet the appetite; appetizing; to amuse oneself at sb's expense
開胃菜	starter; appetizer
開胃酒	aperitif wine
開脫	to exculpate; to absolve; to exonerate
開脫罪責	to absolve sb from guilt; to exonerate; to exculpate
開腔	to speak out; to start speaking
開腦洞	to blow people's minds with highly imaginative, bizarre ideas
開膛手傑克	Jack the Ripper
開膠	to come unglued; to come apart
開臉	(of a bride-to-be) to remove facial hair and trim hairline (old)
開臺	start of play; opening of theatrical performance
開臺鑼鼓	opening gong; gong strokes announcing start of opera performance
開船	to set sail
開花	to bloom; to blossom; to flower; (fig.) to burst; to split open
開花結果	(lit.) to blossom and bear fruit (idiom)
開花衣	to open a bale of cotton
開苞	to deflower
開荒	to open up land (for agriculture)
開葷	to eat meat after having maintained a vegetarian diet
開蒙	(old) (of a child) to begin schooling
開藥	to prescribe medicine
開行	(of a bus, a train, a boat) to start off
開衩	slit (in clothing)
開衫	cardigan
開裂	to split open; to dehisce (of fruit or cotton bolls, to split open)
開襟	buttoned Chinese tunic; unbuttoned (to cool down)
開襟衫	cardigan
開襠褲	open-crotch pants (for toddlers)
開解	to straighten out; to explain; to ease sb's anxiety
開言	to start to speak
開設	to offer (goods or services); to open (for business etc)
開許	(literary) to allow; to permit
開誠布公	lit. deal sincerely and fairly (idiom); frank and open-minded
開誠相見	candid and open (idiom)
開課	school begins; give a course; teach a subject
開講	to begin a lecture; to start on a story
開議	to hold a (business) meeting; to start negotiations
開賬	to make out a bill
開賽	to start a match; the kick-off
開走	to go (of car, train etc); to drive off
開赴	(of troops) to depart for; to head for
開足馬力	to accelerate at full power (idiom); at full speed
開路	to open up a path; to make one's way through; to construct a road
開路先鋒	pioneer; trailblazer
開車	to drive a car (or train etc)
開車人	driver; person driving a vehicle
開車族	motorists
開辦	to open; to start (a business etc); to set up
開通	to open (a new road or railway line); to set up (a hotline); to launch (a service); to subscribe to (a members-only service)
開運竹	lucky bamboo (Dracaena sanderiana)
開道	to clear the way
開遠市	Kaiyuan, a county-level city in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
開都河	Kaidu River, Xinjiang
開酒費	corkage fee
開釋	to release (a prisoner)
開金	carated gold (alloy containing stated proportion of gold)
開銷	to pay (expenses); expenses; (old) to dismiss (an employee)
開鍋	to season a wok; to take the lid off a pot
開鎖	to unlock
開鐮	to start the harvest
開鑼	to beat the gong to open a performance
開鑼喝道	to clear a street by banging gongs and shouting loudly (idiom)
開鑽	to start drilling
開鑿	to cut (a canal, tunnel, well etc)
開門	(lit. and fig.) to open a door; to open for business
開門揖盜	leaving the door open invites the thief (idiom); to invite disaster by giving evildoers a free hand
開門殺	dooring (accident caused by opening a vehicle door into traffic)
開門炮	firecrackers set off at the stroke of midnight on New Year's Day (a Chinese tradition)
開門紅	a good beginning
開門見山	lit. to open the door and see the mountain; fig. to get right to the point (idiom)
開閉幕式	opening and closing ceremonies
開間	unit for the width of a room, equal to the standard width of a room in an old-style house – about 10 chi 尺[chi3]
開闊	wide; open (spaces); to open up
開關	power switch; gas valve; to open the city (or frontier) gate
開闢	to open up; to create; to establish
開闢者	pioneer; groundbreaker
開除	to expel (a member of an organization); to fire (an employee)
開除學籍	to expel from school
開除黨籍	to expel from the Party
開陽	Mizar; Zeta Ursae Majoris in the Big Dipper
開陽縣	Kaiyang, a county in Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
開集	open set (math.)
開霽	to clear up (of weather)
開革	to fire; to discharge
開頭	beginning; to start
開顏	to smile; to beam
開飯	to start eating; to serve a meal
開首	beginning; start; opening
開高叉	slit dress
開魯縣	Kailu, a county in Tongliao City 通遼市|通辽市[Tong1 liao2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
開麥拉	(Tw) (loanword) camera
開黑	(slang) (online gaming) to team up with friends in a coordinated private group (黑[hei1] indicates private, team-only chat)
開黑店	lit. to open an inn that kills and robs guests (esp. in traditional fiction)
開齋	to stop following a vegetarian diet; to break a fast
開齋節	(Islam) Eid al-Fitr, festival that marks the end of Ramadan
閌	used in 閌閬|闶阆[kang1 lang2]; Taiwan pr. [kang4]
閌閬	(dialect) open space within a structure
閎	surname Hong
閏	intercalary
閏四月，吃樹葉	an intercalary fourth month brings food shortages
閏年	leap year; (lunar calendar) year with a thirteen intercalary month
閏月	intercalary month in the lunar calendar; leap month
閏秒	leap second
閑	enclosure; (variant of 閒|闲[xian2]) idle; unoccupied
閑冗	officials with light duties; supernumeraries
閑在	at leisure
閑坐	to sit around; to sit idly
閑居	to lead a quiet and peaceful life in retirement
閑心	leisurely mood; relaxed frame of mind
閑暇	leisure; free time; unoccupied
閑章	recreative seal, bearing not the owner's name but a well-known verse or such, and used for artistic purposes on paintings etc
閑聊天	to chat; idle gossip
閑職	sinecure; position with practically no obligations
閑花	wild flower
閑言碎語	idle gossip; irrelevant nonsense; slanderous rumor
閑話家常	to chat about domestic trivia (idiom)
閑逛	to stroll
閑逸	comfort and leisure
閑雅	elegant; graceful
閑雜	(employee) having no fixed duties
閑靜	calm; tranquil
閒	idle; unoccupied; leisure
閒事	other people's business
閒人	idle person; idler
閒侃	to chat idly
閒來無事	at leisure; idle; to have nothing to do
閒口	idle talk
閒家	(gambling) player who is not the dealer
閒情	leisurely frame of mind
閒情逸致	leisurely and carefree mood
閒扯	to chat; idle talk
閒散	laid back; leisurely; (of resources: workers, funds etc) unused; idle
閒晃	to hang around; to hang out
閒暇	leisure
閒書	light reading
閒混	to loiter
閒空	idle; free time; leisure
閒置	to leave unused; to leave idle; to lie idle
閒聊	to chat; casual conversation
閒言閒語	idle gossip
閒話	casual conversation; chat; gossip
閒談	to chat
閒適	leisurely and comfortable; relaxed
閒錢	spare money
閒雲野鶴	(idiom) free spirit; person who leads a carefree, unfettered life
閒餘	(of one's time) idle; unoccupied
間	between; among; within a definite time or space
間不容髮	(to escape danger etc) by a hair's breadth (idiom)
間作	interplanting
間使	secret envoy; acupuncture point Pc-5
間充	mesenchymal (tissue, in cell biology)
間充質	mesenchyme (loosely organized embryonic connective tissue)
間充質幹細胞	mesenchymal stem cell MSC (in cell biology)
間壁	next door; partition wall
間奏	interlude (music)
間或	occasionally; now and then
間接	indirect
間接稅	indirect tax
間接證據	indirect testimony; circumstantial evidence
間接賓語	indirect object (grammar)
間接選舉	indirect election
間斷	disconnected; interrupted; suspended
間歇	to stop in the middle of sth; intermittent; intermittence
間歇訓練	interval training
間皮瘤	mesothelioma (medicine)
間腦	diencephalon
間苗	thinning out seedlings
間諜	spy
間諜活動	espionage; spying
間諜網	spy network
間諜罪	crime of spying
間諜軟件	spyware
間質	mesenchyme (physiology)
間距	gap; spacing; distance between objects; interval between events
間隔	gap; interval; compartment
間隔攝影	time-lapse photography
間隔號	middle dot (·), a punctuation mark used in Chinese text to separate the parts of a transliterated foreign name or elements in a list
間隔重複	spaced repetition
間隙	interval; gap; clearance
閔	surname Min
閔凶	suffering; affliction
閔科夫斯基	Minkowski (name); Hermann Minkowski (1864-1909), German mathematician
閔行區	Minhang District of Shanghai
閘	sluice; sluice gate; to dam up water; (coll.) brake
閘口	open sluice gate; (toll) station; boarding gate (airport etc)
閘機	turnstile
閘盒	electric fusebox; switch box
閘道	(computing) gateway (Tw)
閘門	sluice gate
閘閥	gate valve; sluice valve
閛	the sound of opening or closing the door
閟	hidden; hide
閡	obstruct
閣	pavilion (usu. two-storied); cabinet (politics); boudoir
閣下	your distinguished self; your majesty; sire
閣僚	cabinet member
閣員	cabinet member
閣揆	premier; prime minister
閣樓	garret; loft; attic
閣議	cabinet meeting
閤	side door; pavilion; cabinet
閥	powerful individual, family or group; clique; (loanword) valve
閥芯	valve stem
閥門	valve (mechanical)
閦	crowd; transliteration of Sanskrit 'kso', e.g. Aksobhya Buddha 阿閦佛
閨	small arched door; boudoir; lady's chamber; (fig.) women
閨女	maiden; unmarried woman; (coll.) daughter
閨情	women's love; passion (felt by lady)
閨房	lady's chamber; boudoir; harem
閨秀	well-bred young lady
閨窗	a lady's chamber; boudoir
閨範	lady's demeanor; norms expected of women (in former times)
閨蜜	(coll.) (a woman's) close female friend; bestie
閨門旦	young unmarried lady role in Chinese opera
閨閣	lady's chamber
閨閫	women's quarters
閩	short name for Fujian 福建[Fu2 jian4]; also pr. [Min2]
閩侯縣	Minhou, a county in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
閩南	Minnan (southern Fujian)
閩南話	Southern Min, a family of Sinitic languages spoken in southern Fujian and surrounding areas
閩南語	Southern Min, a Sinitic language spoken in southern Fujian and surrounding areas
閩江	Min River, Fujian
閩清縣	Minqing, a county in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
閩粵	Fujian and Guangdong
閩菜	Fujian cuisine
閩語	Min dialects, spoken in Fujian Province, Taiwan etc
閫	threshold; inner appartments; woman
閫奧	innermost room; (fig.) heart
閫寄	military command
閫範	model of feminine virtues
閬	(literary) vast; spacious; (literary) lofty; (literary) tall door
閬中市	Langzhong, a county-level city in Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
閬苑	Langyuan paradise, home of the immortals in verse and legends
閬風	Langfeng Mountain
閬風巔	Langfeng Mountain
閭	gate of a village; village
閱	to inspect; to review; to read
閱世	to see the world
閱兵	to review troops; military parade
閱兵式	military parade
閱卷	to grade exam papers; to review case files
閱女無數	(idiom) to have had relationships with many women
閱微草堂筆記	Notes on a Minutely Observed Thatched Hut by Ji Yun 紀昀|纪昀[Ji4 Yun2], novel of the supernatural
閱歷	to experience; experience
閱男無數	(idiom) to have had relationships with many men
閱聽人	(Tw) audience
閱覽	to read
閱覽室	reading room
閱讀	to read; reading
閱讀器	reader (software)
閱讀廣度	reading span
閱讀理解	reading comprehension
閱讀裝置	electronic reader (e.g. for barcodes, RFID tags etc)
閱讀障礙	dyslexia
閶	gate of heaven; gate of palace
閹	to castrate; a castrate; neuter
閹人	a castrate
閹割	to castrate; fig. to emasculate
閹寺	(literary) court eunuch
閹然	covertly; secretly
閹豎	eunuch (contemptuous appellation)
閺	to look down
閻	surname Yan (sometimes written 閆|闫[Yan2] in recent years)
閻君	(Buddhism) Yama, the King of Hell
閻王	(Buddhism) Yama, the King of Hell; (fig.) cruel and tyrannical person
閻王好見，小鬼難當	lit. standing in front of the King of Hell is easy, but smaller devils are difficult to deal with (idiom)
閻王殿	Yama's palace
閻王爺	(Buddhism) Yama, the King of Hell
閻羅	(Buddhism) Yama, the King of Hell
閻羅殿	Yama's palace
閻羅王	(Buddhism) Yama, the King of Hell
閻老	(Buddhism) Yama, the King of Hell
閻良區	Yanliang, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
閻錫山	Yan Xishan (1883-1960), warlord in Shanxi
閻魔	(Buddhism) Yama, the King of Hell
閼	to block; to restrain; to control
閼氏	formal wife of a Xiongnu chief during the Han Dynasty (206 BC-220 AD)
閽	doorkeeper
閾	threshold
閾值	threshold
閾限	(psychology) threshold; liminal
閿	wen xiang, Henan province
闁	to praise
闃	quiet; to live alone
闃寂	still; quiet
闃然	quiet; still and silent
闆	to catch sight of in a doorway (old)
闇	(literary) to close (a door); to eclipse
闈	door to women's room; gate to palace
闉	surname Yin
闊	rich; wide; broad
闊人	rich person; the rich
闊佬	wealthy person; millionaire
闊別	separated for a long time
闊嘴鷸	(bird species of China) broad-billed sandpiper (Calidris falcinellus)
闊少	(derog.) young man from a wealthy family
闊度	breadth
闊步	to stride forward
闊氣	lavish; generous; bounteous
闊綽	extravagant; liberal with money
闊葉	broad-leaved (tree)
闊躡	to stride (formal writing)
闋	(literary) to end; to stop
闌	railing; balustrade; door-screen
闌入	to trespass; to mix; to mingle
闌出	to leave impulsively; to send out (merchandise) without authorization
闌尾	appendix; vermiform appendix (anatomy)
闌尾切除術	appendectomy (medicine)
闌尾炎	appendicitis (medicine)
闌干	(literary) crisscross; uneven; disorderly
闌檻	railing; fence; banisters
闌殫	tired and exhausted
闌珊	coming to an end; waning
闌遺	unclaimed articles
闌頭	lintel; architrave
闌風	continuous blowing of the wind
闍	(used in transliteration from Sanskrit)
闍梨	Buddhist monk (Sanskrit: jala)
闍黎	Buddhist teacher (Sanskrit transliteration)
闐	fill up; rumbling sound
闑	vertical divider of a door way
闒	door or window in an upper story
闓	to loosen; to open
闔	door; to close; whole
闔廬	King Helu of Wu (-496 BC, reigned 514-496 BC); also called 闔閭|阖闾
闔第光臨	the whole family is invited (idiom)
闔閭	King Helu of Wu (-496 BC, reigned 514-496 BC); also called 闔廬|阖庐
闔閭城	capital city of King Helu of Wu from 6th century BC, at modern Wuxi, Jiangsu
闔閭城遺址	ruins of capital city of King Helu of Wu, from 6th century BC, at modern Wuxi, Jiangsu
闕	Imperial city watchtower (old); fault; deficiency
闕特勤	Kul Tigin or Kultegin (685–c. 731), general of the Second Turkic Khaganate
闖	to rush; to charge; to dash
闖入	to intrude; to charge in; to gate-crash
闖出名堂	to make a name for oneself
闖卡	to force one's way through a checkpoint (without authorization or stopping)
闖王	Chuangwang or Roaming King, adopted name of late Ming peasant rebel leader Li Zicheng 李自成 (1605-1645)
闖王陵	mausoleum to the late-Ming peasant rebel leader Li Zicheng 李自成[Li3 Ze4 cheng2], nicknamed Dashing King 闖王|闯王[Chuang3 Wang2]
闖禍	to cause an accident; to make trouble; to get into trouble
闖空門	to break into a home when no one is there (to steal)
闖紅燈	to run a red light; failing to stop at a red traffic light
闖蕩	to leave home to make one's way in the world
闖蕩江湖	to travel around the country
闖進	to burst in
闖過	to crash one's way through
闖關	to crash through a barrier
闖關者	person who crashes through a barrier; gate-crasher
關	mountain pass; to close; to shut; to turn off
關上	to close (a door); to turn off (light, electrical equipment etc)
關中	Guanzhong Plain in Shaanxi
關中地區	Guanzhong Plain in Shaanxi
關中平原	Guanzhong Plain in Shaanxi
關之琳	Rosamund Kwan (1962-), Hong Kong actress
關乎	to relate to; concerning; about
關云長	courtesy name of 關羽|关羽[Guan1 Yu3]
關你屁事	(coll.) None of your goddamn business!; Mind your own business!
關係	relation; relationship; connection; to concern; to involve; to affect
關係代名詞	relative pronoun
關係到	relates to; bears upon
關係式	equation expressing a relation (math.)
關係戶	a connection (sb with whom one has dealings on the basis of "scratch my back and I'll scratch yours")
關係網	network of people with whom one has dealings on the basis of "scratch my back and I'll scratch yours"
關停	(of a power plant, refinery etc) to shut down
關內	the region inside the major mountain passes of ancient China
關公	Lord Guan (i.e. 關羽|关羽[Guan1 Yu3])
關公面前耍大刀	lit. to wield the broadsword in the presence of Lord Guan (idiom)
關切	to be deeply concerned; to be troubled (by)
關卡	checkpoint (for taxation, security etc)
關口	pass; gateway; (fig.) juncture
關員	customs officer
關嚴	to close (a window) completely; to shut (a door) properly; to turn off (a faucet) tightly
關城	defensive fort over border post
關塔納摩	Guantanamo, Cuba
關塔那摩	Guantanamo
關塔那摩灣	Guantanamo Bay (in Cuba)
關塞	border fort, esp. defending narrow valley
關境	customs border
關外	beyond the pass, i.e. the region north and east of Shanhai Pass 山海關|山海关[Shan1 hai3 guan1] or the region west of Jiayu Pass 嘉峪關|嘉峪关[Jia1 yu4 guan1] or both
關子	climax (in a story)
關山	fortresses and mountains (along the Great Wall); one's hometown
關島	Guam
關島大學	University of Guam
關嶺布依族苗族自治縣	Guanling Buyei and Miao Autonomous County, in Anshun City 安順市|安顺市[An1 shun4 Shi4], Guizhou
關店歇業	to close up shop and cease business temporarily; closed for business
關廟	Guanmiao, a district in Tainan 台南|台南[Tai2 nan2], Taiwan
關廠	to shut down (a factory); to close a facility; a lockout
關張	(of a shop) to close down; to go out of business
關征	customs levy; customs post charging import duties
關心	to be concerned about; to care about
關愛	to show concern and care for
關懷	care; solicitude; to show care for
關懷備至	the utmost care (idiom); to look after sb in every possible way
關押	to imprison; to lock up (in jail)
關掉	to switch off; to shut off
關文	official document sent to an agency (or an official) of equal rank (in imperial times)
關斷	to shut off
關於	pertaining to; concerning; with regard to
關東	Northeast China; Manchuria
關東地震	Kantō earthquake of 1923, magnitude 8.2, that killed 200,000 people in the Tokyo area
關東煮	oden, Japanese dish made with boiled eggs, processed fish cakes, daikon radish, tofu etc in a kelp-based broth
關東軍	Japanese Kwantung army (or Kantō army), notorious for numerous atrocities in China during WWII
關格	blocked or painful urination, constipation and vomiting (Chinese medicine)
關棧	bonded warehouse
關棧費	bonding fee
關機	to turn off (a machine or device); to finish shooting a film
關注	to pay attention to; to follow sth closely; to follow (on social media)
關涉	to relate (to); to concern; to involve
關漢卿	Guan Hanqing (c. 1235-c. 1300), Yuan dynasty dramatist in the 雜劇|杂剧 tradition of musical comedy, one of the Four Great Yuan dramatists 元曲四大家
關照	to take care; to keep an eye on; to look after
關白	to inform; to notify
關禁閉	to put in detention (a soldier, a pupil)
關稅	customs duty; tariff
關稅同盟	customs union
關稅國境	customs border
關稅壁壘	tariff wall
關稅與貿易總協定	GATT, the 1995 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
關穎珊	Michelle Kwan (1980-), former American figure skater, Olympic medalist
關節	joint (physiology); key point; critical phase
關節囊	articular capsule (of joint such as knee in anatomy)
關節炎	arthritis
關節腔	articular cavity; joint cavity
關節面	articular facet (anatomy); surface in joint
關緊	to close firmly; to fasten securely; to make fast
關羽	Guan Yu (-219), general of Shu and blood-brother of Liu Bei in Romance of the Three Kingdoms, fearsome fighter famous for virtue and loyalty
關聯	to be related; to be connected; relationship; connection
關聯公司	related company; affiliate
關聯詞	(grammar) a connective; a conjunction
關西	Kansai region, Japan
關說	to speak on sb's behalf; to intercede for sb; to lobby illegally
關貿總協定	GATT, the 1995 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
關金券	Chinese customs gold unit, currency used in China between 1930 and 1948
關鍵	crucial point; crux; key
關鍵字	keyword
關鍵績效指標	key performance indicator (KPI)
關鍵詞	keyword
關門	to close a door; to lock a door
關門兔	(sports) (coll.) sweeper (in a running event)
關門大吉	to close down a business for good and put the best face on it (idiom)
關門弟子	last disciple of a master
關門打狗	lit. shut the door and beat the dog (idiom)
關門捉賊	to catch a thief by closing his escape route (idiom)
關閉	to close; to shut (a window etc); (of a shop, school etc) to shut down
關關難過，關關過	to meet with great difficulties but pull through
關防	security measures (esp. border security)
關隘	mountain pass
關頭	juncture; moment
關餉	to receive one's salary; to pay sb's wages
闞	to glance; to peep
闟	peacefully; quietly
闠	gate of market
闡	to express; to disclose; to enlighten
闡揚	to expound; to propagate
闡明	to elucidate; to explain clearly; to expound
闡發	to elucidate; to expound; to study and explain
闡示	to demonstrate
闡述	to expound (a position); to elaborate (on a topic)
闡釋	to explain; to expound; to interpret
闢	to open (a door); to open up (for development)
闢室	lit. to open a room; fig. to settle in a quiet room
闢室密談	to discuss behind closed doors
闢建	(Tw) to construct (on undeveloped land)
闢謠	to refute a rumor; to deny
闤	wall around a market place
闥	door of an inner room
阜	abundant; mound
阜南縣	Funan, a county in Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
阜城縣	Fucheng, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
阜寧縣	Funing, a county in Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
阜平縣	Fuping, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
阜康市	Fukang, a county-level city in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
阜成門	Fuchengmen neighborhood of Beijing
阜新市	Fuxin, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
阜新蒙古族自治縣	Fuxin Mongol Autonomous County, in Fuxin City 阜新市[Fu4 xin1 Shi4], Liaoning
阜陽市	Fuyang, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
阞	layer; vein
阡	road leading north and south
阢	used in 阢隉|阢陧[wu4 nie4]
阤	bank; hillside
阨	defile; pass; in distress
阪	slope; hillside
阮	ruan, a four-stringed Chinese lute
阮元	scholar-official in the Qing dynasty (1764-1849)
阮安	Nguyen An (1381-1453), aka Ruan An, Vietnamese architect and engineer, principal designer of the Forbidden City
阮崇武	Ruan Chongwu (1933-), third governor of Hainan
阮晉勇	Nguyễn Tấn Dũng (1949-), prime minister of Vietnam 2006-2016
阰	mountain in ancient Chu
阱	pitfall; trap
防	to protect; to defend; to guard against
防不勝防	(idiom) virtually impossible to prevent
防偽	to prevent counterfeiting; anti-counterfeiting
防備	to guard against
防凍	antifreeze
防凍劑	antifreeze agent
防制	(Tw) to combat (bullying, money laundering etc); to counter
防務	(pertaining to) defense
防化救援	antichemical rescue
防呆	(manufacturing) poka-yoke; mistake-proofing
防喘振	(turbomachinery design) anti-surge
防噴罩	pop filter (audio engineering)
防城區	Fangcheng, a district of Fangchenggang City 防城港市[Fang2 cheng2 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
防城港市	Fangchenggang, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
防堵	to prevent; to combat; to counter
防夾	antipinch (e.g. preventing catching fingers in automatic car windows)
防守	to defend; to protect (against)
防守者	defender
防寒服	overcoat; down jacket; winter wear
防弊	anti-fraud; anti-cheating; preventing wrongdoing
防彈	bulletproof
防彈衣	bulletproof vest
防微杜漸	to nip in the bud (idiom)
防患	to take preventative measures; to guard against accident or disaster
防患未然	to prevent troubles before the event (idiom); to forestall
防患未萌	to prevent a disaster before the event (idiom); to nip sth in the bud
防控	to prevent and control (e.g. the spread of a communicable disease)
防損	loss prevention
防暑降溫	to prevent heatstroke and reduce temperature
防暴	to suppress a riot; riot control
防暴盾	riot shield
防暴警察	riot police; riot squad
防曬	sunburn protection
防曬油	sunscreen; sunblock
防曬霜	suntan lotion; sunscreen cream
防杜	to prevent
防核	nuclear defense; anti-nuclear (installation)
防止	to prevent; to guard against; to take precautions
防毒	to protect against poisonous substances, narcotics or computer viruses
防毒圍裙	protective apron
防毒手套	protective gloves
防毒斗篷	protective cape
防毒軟件	anti-virus software
防毒通道	protective passageway
防毒面具	gas mask
防毒面罩	gas mask
防毒靴套	gas-protection boots; protective boots
防水	waterproof
防汛	flood control; anti-flood (precautions)
防治	to prevent and cure; prevention and cure
防波堤	breakwater; seawall; fig. defensive buffer zone
防洪	flood control; flood prevention
防滑	antiskid; slip resistant
防滑鏈	snow chain (for a vehicle tire)
防潮	damp proof; moisture proof; protection against tides
防潮堤	tide embankment
防潮墊	groundsheet (for camping etc)
防火	to protect against fire
防火梯	fire escape
防火牆	firewall
防火道	firebreak
防火長城	Great Firewall of China (system for restricting access to foreign websites)
防災	disaster prevention; to protect against natural disasters
防焊油墨	solder mask (applied to a circuit board)
防特	to thwart espionage; counterespionage
防狼噴霧	pepper spray
防疫	to prevent epidemics
防盜	to guard against theft; anti-theft
防盜門	security door
防磁	antimagnetic
防禦	defense; to defend
防禦工事	fortification; defensive structure
防禦性	defensive (weapons)
防禦率	earned run average (baseball)
防禦術	defensive art
防空	anti-aircraft defense
防空洞	air raid shelter; bomb shelter
防空避難	(Tw) evacuation to an air-raid shelter
防空避難所	(Tw) air-raid shelter
防範	to be on guard; wariness; to guard against
防線	defensive line or perimeter
防腐	rotproof; antiseptic; anti-corrosion
防腐劑	preservative; antiseptic
防艾	protecting against AIDS
防蚊液	mosquito repellent
防衛	to defend; defensive; defense
防衛大臣	minister of defense (esp. in Japan)
防衛武器	defensive weapon
防衛過當	excessive self-defense (self-defense with excessive force)
防護	to defend; to protect
防護服	protective clothing; hazmat suit
防護眼鏡	safety goggles
防身	self-protection; to defend oneself
防避	protection
防鏽	to prevent rust; to resist rusting
防長	abbr. for 國防部長|国防部长[guo2 fang2 bu4 zhang3], Minister of Defense
防閑	to guard
防震	shockproof; to guard against earthquakes
防霉	to inhibit mold; mold-proof; mildew-proof
防風	to protect from wind
防風固沙	sand break (in desert environment)
防駭	anti-hacker
防齲	(dentistry) to prevent tooth decay; anti-cavity; anti-caries
阹	a pen; to surround
阻	to hinder; to block; to obstruct
阻值	numerical value of electrical impedance
阻力	resistance; drag
阻嚇	to deter
阻塞	to block; to clog
阻尼	damping
阻差辦公	(law) obstructing government administration (Hong Kong)
阻截	to stop; to obstruct; to bar the way
阻抑	to impede; to check; to inhibit
阻抗	electrical impedance
阻抗匹配	impedance matching
阻抗變換器	impedance converter
阻援	to block reinforcements
阻撓	to thwart; to obstruct (sth)
阻擊	to check; to stop
阻擋	to stop; to resist; to obstruct
阻擾	to obstruct; to impede
阻攔	to stop; to obstruct
阻攻	to block a shot (basketball) (Tw)
阻斷	to block; to obstruct; to intercept
阻斷服務攻擊	(Tw) (computing) denial-of-service attack (DDOS)
阻止	to prevent; to block
阻滯	to clog up; silted up
阻燃	fire resistant
阻留	to intercept; interception
阻礙	to obstruct; to hinder; to block
阻絕	to block; to obstruct; to clog
阻遏	to impede; to hold sb back
阻隔	to separate; to cut off
阻難	to thwart; to impede
阻雨	immobilized by rain
阼	steps leading to the eastern door
阽	dangerous; also pr. [yan2]
阿	prefix used before monosyllabic names, kinship terms etc to indicate familiarity
阿Q	Ah Q, antihero of Lu Xun's influential 1921 novella "The True Story of Ah Q" 阿Q正傳|阿Q正传[A1 Q Zheng4 zhuan4] ("Q" here is typically pronounced as [kiu1] or [qiu1])
阿Q正傳	The True Story of Ah Q, influential 1921 novella by Lu Xun 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4]
阿三	(derog.) an Indian
阿不來提·阿不都熱西提	Ablet Abdureshit (1942–), chairman of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 1993–2003
阿丹	Adam (name); Aden, capital of Yemen
阿亞圖拉	ayatollah (religious leader in Shia Islam)
阿亨	Aachen, city in Nordrhein-Westfalen, Germany; Aix-la-Chapelle
阿什哈巴德	Ashgabat, capital of Turkmenistan
阿什哈巴特	Ashgabat, capital of Turkmenistan (Tw)
阿什拉維	surname Ashrawi
阿仙藥	gambier extract (from Uncaria gambir), used in TCM
阿伊努	Ainu (ethnic group of Japan's north and Russia's east)
阿伊莎	Ayshe, Aise or Ayesha (name)
阿伏伽德羅	Amedeo Avogadro (1776-1856), Italian scientist
阿伏伽德羅常數	Avogadro's number (chemistry)
阿伯丁	Aberdeen (city on east coast of Scotland)
阿佛洛狄忒	Aphrodite, Greek goddess of love
阿佤	Wa, Kawa or Va ethnic group of Myanmar, south China and southeast Asia
阿來	Alai (1959-), ethnic Tibetan Chinese writer, awarded Mao Dun Literature Prize in 2000 for his novel 塵埃落定|尘埃落定[Chen2 ai1 luo4 ding4] "Red Poppies"
阿依莎	Ayshe, Aise or Ayesha (name)
阿修羅	Asura, malevolent spirits in Indian mythology
阿們	(loanword) amen
阿倫	Aalen, town in Germany
阿倫達爾	Arendal (city in Agder, Norway)
阿兄	elder brother
阿克倫	Acheron River in Epirus, northwest Greece
阿克倫河	Acheron River in Epirus, northwest Greece
阿克塞哈薩克族自治縣	Aksay Kazakh Autonomous County, in Jiuquan City 酒泉市[Jiu3 quan2 Shi4], Gansu
阿克拉	Accra, capital of Ghana
阿克蘇地區	Aksu, prefecture in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
阿克蘇市	Aksu, a county-level city in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
阿克蘇河	Aksu River in Xinjiang
阿克賽欽	Aksai Chin, a disputed region in the Tibetan plateau
阿克陶縣	Akto, a county in Kizilsu Kyrgyz Autonomous Prefecture 克孜勒蘇柯爾克孜自治州|克孜勒苏柯尔克孜自治州[Ke4 zi1 le4 su1 Ke1 er3 ke4 zi1 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
阿公	(old) grandfather
阿兵哥	(coll.) soldier boy
阿其所好	to pander to sb's whims
阿凡提	the Effendi (Nasreddin), the hero of folk tales of the Muslim world, known for his wisdom and humor
阿凡達	Avatar (movie)
阿列克西斯	Alexis (name)
阿列夫	aleph (first letter א of Hebrew alphabet)
阿利坎特	Alicante
阿利藤	Alyxia root and herb (used in TCM)
阿加莎·克里斯蒂	Agatha Christie
阿加迪爾	Agadir, city in southwest Morocco
阿勒泰地區	Altay, prefecture in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
阿勒泰市	Altay, a county-level city in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
阿卜杜拉	Abdullah (name)
阿卡	Acre, city in Israel, also known as Akko
阿卡提	Arcadia (Greek prefecture on the Peloponnese)
阿卡普爾科	Acapulco, city in Mexico
阿卡貝拉	(loanword) a cappella
阿卡迪亞	(place name) Arcadia
阿卡迪亞大學	Acadia University (Canada)
阿司匹林	(loanword) aspirin
阿合奇縣	Akqi, a county in Kizilsu Kyrgyz Autonomous Prefecture 克孜勒蘇柯爾克孜自治州|克孜勒苏柯尔克孜自治州[Ke4 zi1 le4 su1 Ke1 er3 ke4 zi1 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
阿哥	(familiar) elder brother
阿喀琉斯	Achilles (or Akhilleus or Achilleus), son of Thetis and Peleus, Greek hero central to the Iliad
阿嚏	(onom.) a-choo (sound of a sneeze)
阿囡	honey (endearment in addressing a little girl)
阿圖什市	Artush, a county-level city in Kizilsu Kyrgyz Autonomous Prefecture 克孜勒蘇柯爾克孜自治州|克孜勒苏柯尔克孜自治州[Ke4 zi1 le4 su1 Ke1 er3 ke4 zi1 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
阿土	country bumpkin; redneck (derog)
阿城區	Acheng, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
阿基米德	Archimedes (c. 287-212 BC)
阿堵	(literary) (colloquial term of the Six Dynasties period 六朝[Liu4 Chao2]) this
阿堵物	(literary) (euphemism) money (literally, "this thing")
阿塞拜疆	Azerbaijan
阿壩縣	Ngawa, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
阿壩藏族羌族自治州	Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture, in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
阿多尼斯	Adonis, figure in Greek mythology
阿多諾	surname Adorno
阿奇里斯	Achilles (or Akhilleus or Achilleus), son of Thetis and Peleus, Greek hero central to the Iliad
阿奇黴素	(pharmacology) azithromycin
阿奎納	surname Aquinas
阿契美尼德王朝	Achaemenid Dynasty, (559–330 BC), ancient Iranian dynasty whose kings ruled the Achaemenid Empire
阿奶	granny
阿妹	younger sister
阿姆哈拉	Amhara (province, language and ethnic group of Ethiopia); Amharic
阿姆斯特丹	Amsterdam, capital of Netherlands
阿姆斯特朗	surname Armstrong
阿姆河	Amu Darya, the biggest river of Central Asia, from Pamir to Aral sea, forming the boundary between Afghanistan and Tajikistan then flowing through Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan
阿姨	maternal aunt; step-mother; childcare worker
阿婆	granny; mother-in-law
阿媽	grandma (paternal) (Tw); (dialect) mother; nurse
阿嬤	(Tw) grandma (also used to refer to or address an elderly woman) (from Taiwanese 阿媽, Tai-lo pr. [a-má])
阿宅	homebody; geek; nerd; otaku
阿家	husband's mother
阿富汗	Afghanistan
阿富汗語	Afghan (language); Pashto language
阿尼林	(chemistry) (loanword) aniline
阿巴嘎旗	Abag banner or Avga khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
阿巴拉契亞	Appalachian Mountains in North America
阿巴斯	Mahmoud Abbas (1935–), Palestinian politician, president of the Palestinian National Authority (2005–), also known as Abu Mazen
阿布叔醇	albuterol, chemical used in treating asthma
阿布哈茲	Abkhazia
阿布扎比	Abu Dhabi, capital of United Arab Emirates (UAE)
阿布沙耶夫	Abu Sayyaf, militant Islamist separatist group also known as al-Harakat al-Islamiyya
阿布賈	Abuja, capital of Nigeria
阿布達比	Abu Dhabi, capital of United Arab Emirates (Tw)
阿希姆	Askim (city in Østfold, Norway)
阿弟	younger brother
阿彌陀佛	Amitabha Buddha; the Buddha of the Western paradise
阿彌陀如來	Amitabha, Buddha of infinite light
阿彼雅	Abijah (biblical name)
阿得拉	Adderall (stimulant drug)
阿得拉爾	Adderall (stimulant drug)
阿得萊德	Adelaide, capital of South Australia
阿德萊德	Adelaide, capital of South Australia
阿德雷德	Adelaide, capital of South Australia; also written 阿德萊德|阿德莱德
阿房宮	Epang Palace, palace complex in western Xi'an built by Qin Shihuang 秦始皇[Qin2 Shi3 huang2]
阿扁	A-bian, nickname of Chen Shui-bian 陳水扁|陈水扁[Chen2 Shui3 bian3]
阿托品	atropine C17H23NO3, alkaloid drug derived from deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna)
阿拉	(Wu dialect) I; me; my; we; us; our
阿拉丁	Aladdin, character in one of the tales in the The Book of One Thousand and One Nights
阿拉伯	Arabian; Arabic; Arab
阿拉伯人	Arab; Arabian; Arabian people
阿拉伯共同市場	Arab Common Market
阿拉伯半島	Arabian Peninsula
阿拉伯國家聯盟	League of Arab States; Arab League
阿拉伯數字	Arabic numerals 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
阿拉伯文	Arabic (language & writing)
阿拉伯海	Arabian Sea
阿拉伯糖	arabinose (type of sugar)
阿拉伯聯合大公國	United Arab Emirates (Tw)
阿拉伯聯合酋長國	United Arab Emirates (UAE)
阿拉伯膠	gum arabic; acacia gum
阿拉伯語	Arabic (language)
阿拉善右旗	Alxa Right Banner, Mongolian Alshaa Baruun khoshuu, in Alxa League 阿拉善盟[A1 la1 shan4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia (formerly in Gansu 1969-1979)
阿拉善左旗	Alxa Left Banner, Mongolian Alshaa Züün khoshuu, in Alxa League 阿拉善盟[A1 la1 shan4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia (formerly in Gansu 1969-1979)
阿拉善盟	Alxa, league in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
阿拉塔斯	surname Alatas
阿拉山口市	Alashankou, a county-level city in Bortala Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 博爾塔拉蒙古自治州|博尔塔拉蒙古自治州[Bo2 er3 ta3 la1 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
阿拉巴馬	Alabama, US state
阿拉干山脈	Arakan Mountains (aka Rakhine Mountains), mountain range in western Myanmar
阿拉弗拉海	Arafura Sea
阿拉摩	Alamo, city in United States
阿拉斯	Arras, town in northern France
阿拉斯加	Alaska, US state
阿拉斯加大學	University of Alaska
阿拉斯加雪橇犬	Alaskan malamute
阿拉木圖	Almaty, previous capital of Kazakhstan
阿拉法特	Mohammed Abdel Rahman Abdel Raouf Arafat al-Qudwa al-Husseini (1929-2004), Palestinian leader, popularly known as Yasser Arafat 亞西爾·阿拉法特|亚西尔·阿拉法特[Ya4 xi1 er3 · A1 la1 fa3 te4]
阿拉爾	Aral shehiri (Aral city) or Ālā'ěr subprefecture level city in west Xinjiang
阿拉爾市	Aral shehiri (Aral city) or Ālā'ěr subprefecture level city in west Xinjiang
阿拉瓦	Araba or Álava
阿拉米語	Aramaic (language)
阿拔斯王朝	Abbasid Empire (750-1258), successor of the Umayyad caliphate
阿拖品化	atropinization
阿提拉	Attila (406-453), Hun emperor, known as the scourge of God
阿摩司書	Book of Amos, one of the books of the Nevi'im and of the Christian Old Testament
阿摩尼亞	(loanword) ammonia
阿摩尼亞水	ammonia solution
阿斗	A-dou, nickname of Liu Shan 劉禪|刘禅[Liu2 Shan4] (207-271), son of Liu Bei, reigned as Shu Han emperor 233-263
阿斯佩爾格爾	Hans Asperger (1906-1980), Austrian pediatrician
阿斯利康	AstraZeneca (British-Swedish pharmaceutical company)
阿斯匹林	aspirin (loanword) (variant of 阿司匹林[a1 si1 pi3 lin2])
阿斯匹靈	(Tw) (loanword) aspirin
阿斯圖里亞斯	Asturias, northwest Spanish autonomous principality on the bay of Biscay
阿斯塔納	Astana, capital of Kazakhstan
阿斯巴特	aspartame C14H18N2O (artificial sweetener)
阿斯巴甜	(loanword) aspartame
阿斯旺	Aswan (town in south Egypt)
阿斯旺高壩	the Aswan dam in south Egypt
阿斯蘭	Aslan (from the Narnia chronicles)
阿斯頓·馬丁	Aston Martin
阿斯馬拉	Asmara, capital of Eritrea
阿旺曲培	Ngawang Choephel (1966-), Tibetan musicologist and dissident, Fullbright scholar (1993-1994), jailed 1995-2002 then released to US
阿旺曲沛	Ngawang Choepel (Tibetan, Fulbright scholar)
阿昌	Achang ethnic group
阿昌族	Achang ethnic group
阿明	Al-Amin
阿昔洛韋	aciclovir (also spelled acyclovir), antiviral drug
阿是穴	(TCM) ashi point: a tender spot that is not a standard acupuncture point
阿普吐龍	apatosaurus; former name: brontosaurus; also called 雷龍|雷龙[lei2 long2]
阿普爾頓	Appleton (name)
阿曼	Oman
阿曼灣	Gulf of Oman
阿月渾子	pistachio
阿月渾子樹	pistachio tree
阿木林	dullard; stupid person
阿松森島	Ascension Island
阿根廷	Argentina
阿格尼迪	Agnus Dei (section of Catholic mass)
阿梵達	(loanword) avatar
阿森	Assen, city in the Netherlands
阿森松島	Ascension Island
阿森納	Arsenal Football Club
阿榮旗	Arun banner or Arongqi county in Hulunbuir 呼倫貝爾|呼伦贝尔[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3], Inner Mongolia
阿比	(name) Abby; Abi
阿比西尼亞	Abyssinia, historical name of Ethiopia
阿比西尼亞人	Abyssinian (person)
阿比讓	Abidjan (city in Ivory Coast)
阿法爾	Afar region of northeast Ethiopia; Afar people
阿法爾沙漠	Afar Desert, Southern Ethiopia
阿法羅密歐	Alfa Romeo
阿波羅	Apollo (loanword)
阿波羅計劃	the Apollo project (1961-1975), the NASA moon landing project
阿洛菲	Alofi, capital of Niue
阿混	(dialect) idler; loafer
阿爸	Abba (Aramaic word father); by ext. God the Father in Christian gospel
阿爸父	Abba (Aramaic word father); by ext. God the Father in Christian gospel
阿爹	dad; father; (paternal) grandfather
阿爾伯塔	Alberta province of Canada, capital Edmonton 埃德蒙頓|埃德蒙顿[Ai1 de2 meng2 dun4]
阿爾伯特	Albert (name)
阿爾加維	the Algarve (southern region of Portugal)
阿爾卑斯	alps (mountain range)
阿爾卡特	Alcatel, old company name
阿爾及利亞	Algeria
阿爾及利亞人	Algerian
阿爾及爾	Algiers, capital of Algeria
阿爾坎塔拉	Alcántara, municipality in the province of Cáceres, Extremadura, Spain
阿爾山市	Arxan, a county-level city in Hinggan League 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
阿爾巴尼亞	Albania
阿爾巴尼亞人	Albanian (person)
阿爾斯通公司	Alstom (company name)
阿爾梅里亞	Almería
阿爾法	alpha (Greek letter Α, α)
阿爾法·羅密歐	Alfa Romeo
阿爾法男	alpha male
阿爾法粒子	alpha particle (helium nucleus)
阿爾泰	Altai republic in Russian central Asia, capital Gorno-Altaysk
阿爾泰山	Altai mountain range in Xinjiang and Siberia
阿爾泰山脈	Altai mountain chain on the border of Russia and Mongolia
阿爾泰紫菀	(botany) Aster altaicus
阿爾泰語	Altaic language
阿爾泰雪雞	(bird species of China) Altai snowcock (Tetraogallus altaicus)
阿爾漢格爾斯克州	Arkhangelsk Oblast, Russia
阿爾瓦塞特	Albacete (capital city of Spain's Albacete Province)
阿爾茨海默	Alois Alzheimer (1864–1915), German psychiatrist and neuropathologist
阿爾茨海默氏病	Alzheimer's disease
阿爾茨海默氏症	Alzheimer's disease
阿爾茨海默病	Alzheimer's disease
阿爾茨海默症	Alzheimer's disease
阿爾蓋達	al-Qaeda
阿爾薩斯	Alsace, French department
阿爾袞琴	Algonquin (North American people)
阿爾都塞	surname Althusser
阿片	(loanword) opium
阿物兒	thing; (you) useless thing
阿特拉斯	Atlas, a Titan in Greek mythology; Atlas Mountains in North Africa
阿特蘭蒂斯	Atlantis
阿特金斯	Atkins (name)
阿狄森氏病	Addison's disease
阿瑞斯	Ares, Greek god of war; Mars
阿瑟	(name) Arthur
阿瑪尼	Armani (fashion designer)
阿瓦提縣	Awat, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
阿瓦里德	Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal al-Saud of Saudi Arabia
阿瓦魯阿	Avarua, capital of the Cook Islands
阿甘正傳	Forrest Gump
阿留申群島	Aleutian Islands (trailing 2250 km southwest of Alaska almost down to Kamtchatka)
阿的平	atabrine or quinacrine, used as antimalarial drug and antibiotic against intestinal parasite giardiasis
阿皮亞	Apia, capital of the Independent State of Samoa
阿盟	Arab League; League of Arab States (abbr. for 阿拉伯國家聯盟|阿拉伯国家联盟[A1 la1 bo2 Guo2 jia1 Lian2 meng2])
阿秒	(physics) attosecond (10⁻¹⁸ s)
阿穆爾州	Amur Oblast, in far eastern Russia
阿穆爾河	Amur River (the border between northeast China and Russia)
阿空加瓜山	Mount Aconcagua, Argentina, the highest point in the Western Hemisphere
阿米巴	(loanword) amoeba
阿米巴原蟲	amoeba; ameba
阿米巴病	amebiasis; amebic dysentery
阿米巴痢疾	amebic dysentery
阿米納達布	Amminadab (name)
阿維拉	Avila, Spain
阿羅漢	arhat (Sanskrit)
阿羅約	surname Arroyo
阿美恩斯	Amiens (French town)
阿美族	Amis or Pangcah, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
阿耳忒彌斯	Artemis (Greek goddess of the moon)
阿耳戈斯	Argus
阿聯酋	United Arab Emirates (abbr. for 阿拉伯聯合酋長國|阿拉伯联合酋长国[A1 la1 bo2 Lian2 he2 Qiu2 zhang3 guo2])
阿聯酋航空	Emirates (airline)
阿聯酋長國	United Arab Emirates (abbr. for 阿拉伯聯合酋長國|阿拉伯联合酋长国[A1 la1 bo2 Lian2 he2 Qiu2 zhang3 guo2])
阿肯色	Arkansas, US state
阿肯色大學	University of Arkansas
阿育吠陀	Ayurveda (ancient Indian system and health care philosophy)
阿育王	Ashoka (304-232 BC), Indian emperor of the Maurya Dynasty 孔雀王朝[Kong3 que4 Wang2 chao2], ruled 273-232 BC
阿育魏實	seed of ajwain; Semen Trachyspermi coptici
阿膠	donkey-hide gelatin (used in TCM); Taiwan pr. [a1 jiao1]
阿芒拿	(chemistry) (loanword) ammonal
阿芙樂爾號	the Russian cruiser Aurora, whose blank shot in 1917 signaled the start of the October Revolution
阿芙蓉	opium
阿芝特克人	Aztec (person)
阿芝特克語	Aztec language (Nahuatl)
阿茨海默症	Alzheimer's disease
阿茲海默症	(Tw) Alzheimer's disease
阿茲特克	Aztec
阿莎力	(coll.) straightforward; unreserved
阿莫西林	(loanword) amoxicillin
阿華田	Ovaltine (brand)
阿萊奇冰川	Aletsch glacier, Switzerland
阿萊曼	El Alamein, town in Egypt
阿蒙	Amun, deity in Egyptian mythology, also spelled Amon, Amoun, Amen, and rarely Imen
阿蓋達	al-Qaeda
阿蓮區	Alian, a rural district of Kaohsiung 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 Shi4], Taiwan
阿薩姆	Assam, India
阿薩德	Assad (Arabic name)
阿蘇山	Mount Aso, active volcano in Kyushu, Japan
阿蘭	Alan, Allen, Allan, Alain etc (name); A-lan (Chinese female name)
阿蘭文	Aramaic
阿蘭若	Buddhist temple (transliteration of Sanskrit "Aranyakah")
阿西吧	aw, fuck! (loanword from Korean 아! 씨발!)
阿西莫夫	Isaac Asimov (1920-1992), American author and biochemist
阿訇	(loanword from Persian) imam; ahung
阿誰	who
阿諛	to flatter; to toady
阿諛奉承	flattering and fawning (idiom); sweet-talking
阿諾	Arnold (usu. refers to Arnold Schwarzenegger 施瓦辛格[Shi1 wa3 xin1 ge2])
阿諾德	(name) Arnold
阿貓阿狗	(idiom) (coll.) any Tom, Dick or Harry; just about anyone (used dismissively)
阿貝爾	Niels Henrik Abel (1802-1829), Norwegian mathematician
阿貝貝	(neologism) transitional object; comfort object
阿赫蒂薩里	Martti Ahtisaari (1937–2023), Finnish politician, peace negotiator and 2008 Nobel peace laureate
阿迪斯阿貝巴	Addis Ababa, capital of Ethiopia (Tw)
阿迪達斯	Adidas (sportswear company)
阿達比爾	Ardabil in Azerbaijan region of Iran
阿鄉	(coll.) country folk; rustic
阿里	(name) Ali; Ali (c. 600–661), the fourth caliph of Islam
阿里地區	Ngari, prefecture in Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
阿里山	Alishan mountain range in the central-southern region of Taiwan
阿里巴巴	Ali Baba, character from The Arabian Nights
阿里斯托芬	Aristophanes (c. 448-380 BC), Greek comic playwright
阿里郎	Arirang, famous Korean song of love and tragic separation, based on folk tale from Georyo dynasty
阿金庫爾	Agincourt (near Arras in north France, scene of a battle in 1415)
阿門	(loanword) amen
阿閦佛	Aksobhya, the imperturbable ruler of Eastern Paradise, Abhirati
阿闍梨	Buddhist teacher (Sanskrit transliteration)
阿闍黎	Buddhist teacher (Sanskrit transliteration)
阿附	to fawn (as flatterer)
阿難	Prince Ananda, cousin of the Buddha and his closest disciple
阿難陀	Prince Ananda, cousin of the Buddha and his closest disciple
阿靈頓國家公墓	Arlington National Cemetery in Washington DC, USA
阿非利加	Africa
阿非利加洲	Africa
阿飄	(coll.) ghost (Tw)
阿飛	hoodlum; hooligan; young rowdy
阿魏	Ferula resin (used in TCM); Resina Ferulae
阿魯巴	(Tw) (slang) a prank, prevalent in Chinese schools and known as "happy corner" in Hong Kong, in which several people carry a victim with his legs spread open, bringing his groin up against a pole or tree trunk
阿魯科爾沁	Ar Horqin banner or Aru Khorchin khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
阿魯科爾沁旗	Ar Horqin banner or Aru Khorchin khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
阿魯納恰爾邦	Arunachal Pradesh, a state of India in the northeast of the country, occupying an area claimed by China in an ongoing sovereignty dispute
阿麗亞娜	Ariane (name); Ariane European space launch vehicle
阿黑顏	(ACG) ahegao (loanword from Japanese アヘ顔)
阿鼻	Ceaseless pain (Sanskrit: Avici), one of the Buddhist hells; fig. hell
阿鼻地獄	(Buddhism) the Avici Hell, the last and most painful of the eight hot hells
陀	(phonetic); declivity; steep bank
陀思妥也夫斯基	Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky (1821-1881), great Russian novelist, author of Crime and Punishment 罪與罰|罪与罚[Zui4 yu3 Fa2]
陀思妥耶夫斯基	Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky (1821-1881), great Russian novelist, author of Crime and Punishment 罪與罰|罪与罚[Zui4 yu3 Fa2]
陀羅尼	incantation (Sanskrit: dharani)
陀螺	spinning top; gyroscope
陀螺儀	gyroscope
陂	used in 黃陂|黄陂[Huang2 pi2] (the name of a place in Hubei)
陂塘	pool; pond
陂陀	sloping and uneven
附	to add; to attach; to be close to; to be attached
附上	attached; included herewith
附中	attached (or affiliated) secondary (or middle) school
附件	appendix (in a document); enclosure (accompanying a document)
附則	supplementary provision; bylaw; additional article (law)
附加	additional; annex
附加值	added-value (accountancy)
附加元件	additional element; (computing) add-on; plug-in
附加物	complement
附加費	surcharge
附加賽	additional competition; play-off; decider
附和	to agree; to go along with; to echo (what sb says)
附子	monkshood (Aconitum carmichaelii)
附寄	to enclose
附小	affiliated elementary school (abbr. for 附屬小學|附属小学[fu4 shu3 xiao3 xue2])
附屬	subsidiary; auxiliary; attached
附屬品	accessory; affiliated material; adjunct
附屬物	attachment; appendage
附屬腺	subordinate gland
附帶	supplementary; incidentally; in parentheses
附帶損害	collateral damage (both as a legal term, and as a military euphemism)
附庸	vassal; dependent; subordinate
附庸風雅	(of an uneducated person) to mingle with the cognoscenti
附會	to add parallels and interpretations (to a story etc); to develop and embellish; to interpret (often in a strained manner)
附欄	box (featured material enclosed in a rectangle, separate from the main text)
附睪	epididymis
附筆	postscript
附籤	price tag
附耳	to approach sb's ear (to whisper)
附肢	appendage
附著	to adhere; attachment
附著物	fixture (law); attachment
附設	annexed to; attached to; associated
附註	note; annotation
附議	to second a motion
附贅懸疣	superfluous or useless appendages; superfluities
附身	to enter a body; to possess
附近	nearby; neighboring; (in the) vicinity (of); neighborhood
附送	to include as a bonus (when buying sth); to come with
附錄	appendix; supplement; attachment
附面層	boundary layer
附體	(of a spirit or deity) to possess sb
附點	dot (music notation)
陋	low; humble; plain
陋俗	undesirable customs
陋居	The Burrow (Harry Potter)
陋屋	humble dwelling
陋習	corrupt practice; bad habits; malpractice
陋規	objectionable practices
陌	raised path; street
陌生	strange; unfamiliar
陌生人	stranger
陌路	(literary) stranger; person with whom one has no personal connection
陌路人	stranger
陌陌	Momo, GPS-based app for messaging, and potentially meeting up with, other Momo users (typically, strangers) in one's vicinity, launched in 2011
降	to surrender; to capitulate; to subdue; to conquer; to tame
降下	to fall; to drop
降世	lit. to descend to earth (of an immortal); to be born
降伏	to subdue; to vanquish; to tame
降低	to reduce; to lower; to bring down
降價	to cut the price; to drive down the price; to get cheaper
降半旗	to fly a flag at half-mast as a sign of mourning
降噪	to reduce noise (e.g. in a device, signal or environment)
降塵	dust fall; fallout (volcanic, nuclear etc); particulate matter
降壓	to reduce the pressure (of a fluid); to lower one's blood pressure
降壓藥	blood pressure medication; antihypertensive drug
降妖	to subdue monsters
降將	surrendered enemy general
降幅	degree of reduction (in prices, numbers etc); decline; drop
降序	descending order
降息	to lower interest rates
降旗	to lower a flag; to strike the colors
降旨	to issue an imperial edict
降服	to yield; to surrender
降格	to downgrade; to lower the standard; degrading
降水	rain and snow; precipitation (meteorology)
降水量	precipitation (meteorology); measured quantity of rain
降溫	to become cooler; to lower the temperature; cooling
降溫費	extra pay for hot weather
降火	to decrease internal heat (Chinese medicine)
降生	to be born; arrival of newborn
降祉	to send down blessings from heaven
降福	blessings from heaven
降級	to demote; to relegate; to degrade
降結腸	descending colon (anatomy); third section of large intestine
降職	to demote (to a lower rank)
降臨	to descend; to arrive; to come
降臨節	Advent (Christian period of 4 weeks before Christmas)
降落	to descend; to land
降落傘	parachute
降號	(music) flat (♭)
降血壓藥	antihypertensive drug
降血鈣素	calcitonin
降解	(chemistry) degradation; to degrade
降調	falling intonation (linguistics); to lower the key of a tune
降雨	precipitation; rainfall
降雨量	precipitation; quantity of rainfall
降雪	to snow; snowfall
降龍伏虎	to vanquish dragons and tigers (idiom)
陎	surname Shu; (name of an ancient place)
限	to limit; to restrict; (bound form) limit
限價	limit on price
限免	(of a product, service etc) free for a limited time (abbr. for 限時免費|限时免费[xian4 shi2 mian3 fei4])
限制	to restrict; to limit; to confine
限制級	R-rated
限制酶	restriction enzyme
限制酶圖譜	restriction mapping (in genomics); restriction pattern
限定	to restrict to; to limit
限定詞	determiner (in grammar, i.e. article, demonstrative, possessive pronoun, noun genitive etc)
限度	limit
限於	to be limited to; to be confined to
限時	to set a time limit; for a limited time; time-limited
限時信	mail to be delivered by a specified time
限期	to set a time limit; time limit; deadline
限流	to limit the flow of passengers, customers or vehicles
限界線	boundary; dividing line
限行	to restrict the use of motor vehicles (in a particular area)
限購	to limit the amount a customer can buy
限速	speed limit
限量	to limit the amount (of); to restrict the quantity (of)
限額	quota; limit (upper or lower); to set a quota; to set a limit
限高架	height restriction barrier
陑	place name
陔	step; terrace
陘	border the stove; defile; pass
陛	the steps to the throne
陛下	Your Majesty; His or Her Majesty
陝	short name for Shaanxi 陝西|陕西[Shan3 xi1]
陝北	Shanbei, northern Shaanxi province, including Yulin 榆林 and Yan'an 延安, a Holy Land of Mao's revolution 革命聖地|革命圣地
陝南	Shannan, southern Shaanxi province
陝州區	Shanzhou, a district of Sanmenxia City 三門峽市|三门峡市[San1 men2 xia2 Shi4], Henan
陝甘	Shaanxi and Gansu provinces
陝甘寧	Shaanxi, Gansu and Ningxia provinces
陝西大地震	the great Shaanxi earthquake of 2nd February 1556 that killed 830,000 people
陝西師範大學	Shaanxi Normal University
陝西省	Shaanxi Province, capital Xi'an 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4] (short name 陝|陕[Shan3] or 秦[Qin2])
陝西科技大學	Shaanxi University of Science and Technology
陝飛集團	Shaanxi Aircraft Corporation (state-owned enterprise)
陞	to ascend; to rise (variant of 升[sheng1])
陟	to advance; to ascend; to promote
陟罰臧否	(idiom) to evaluate the merits and demerits of; (esp. in formal, ethical or societal contexts) to critique; to judge
陡	steep; precipitous; (of a change) abrupt; sudden
陡削	precipitous
陡坡	steep slope; steep incline
陡壁	steep cliff; precipice; vertical slope
陡峭	precipitous
陡峻	precipitous; high and steep
陡崖	steep cliff; precipice
陡度	gradient
陡然	suddenly; unexpectedly; abruptly
陡變	to change precipitously
陡跌	precipitous drop (in price)
院	courtyard; institution
院壩	(dialect) courtyard
院士	member of a national academy
院子	courtyard; garden; yard
院感	hospital-acquired infection; nosocomial infection (abbr. for 醫院感染|医院感染[yi1 yuan4 gan3 ran3])
院本	script for opera (esp. in Yuan times)
院校	college; academy; educational institution
院牆	courtyard wall
院牧	abbot (Christian)
院線	theater chain (abbr. for 電影院線|电影院线)
院落	courtyard
院試	the last of the three entry-level exams in the imperial examination system of Ming and Qing dynasties
院長	the head of an institution whose name ends in 院[yuan4]; chair of a board; university president; college dean; premier of the Republic of China
陣	disposition of troops; wave; spate
陣亡	to die in battle
陣亡戰士紀念日	Memorial Day (American holiday)
陣亡者	people killed in battle
陣列	array; (military) formation; (Tw) (computing) array (data structure)
陣勢	battle array; disposition of forces; situation
陣地	(military) position; front
陣型	formation (of a sports team, troops etc)
陣子	period of time
陣容	troop arrangement; battle formation; lineup (of a sports team etc)
陣營	group of people; camp; faction
陣痛	labor pains; (fig.) distress caused by a disruptive change
陣痛期	trying times; painful phase
陣線	a front (militant group); line of battle
陣雨	shower (rain)
陣風	gust
除	to get rid of; to remove; to exclude
除不盡	indivisible (math)
除了	apart from; besides; in addition to (used to exclude, as in 除了他，誰也沒來|除了他，谁也没来[chu2 le5 ta1 , shei2 ye3 mei2 lai2] "apart from him, nobody came", or to include, as in 除了英語，他也會法語|除了英语，他也会法语[chu2 le5 Ying1 yu3 , ta1 ye3 hui4 Fa3 yu3] "in addition to English, he also knows French")
除以	(math.) divided by
除冰	to defrost; to get rid of ice
除去	to eliminate; to remove; except for
除名	to strike off (the rolls); to remove from a list; to expunge
除垢劑	detergent
除塵	to eliminate dust (i.e. filter out suspended particles)
除塵機	dusting machine; dust filter
除夕	lunar New Year's Eve
除外	to exclude; not including sth (when counting or listing); except for
除子	divisor (math.)
除息	(finance) ex-dividend; to go ex-dividend
除惡務盡	to eradicate evil completely (idiom); thorough in rooting out wickedness
除掉	to eliminate
除數	divisor (math.)
除暴	to eliminate outlaws
除暴安良	to root out the strong and give people peace (idiom); to rob the rich and give to the poor
除根	to root out; to eliminate the roots; to cure once and for all
除此之外	apart from this; in addition to this
除毛	to remove hair; to depilate
除法	division (math.)
除淨	to remove completely; to eliminate; to cleanse from
除濕器	dehumidifier
除濕機	dehumidifier
除祟	to drive out devils and spirits exorcism
除罪	to pardon
除罪化	to decriminalize
除臭	to deodorize
除臭劑	deodorant
除舊布新	to get rid of the old to bring in the new (idiom); to innovate
除舊更新	to replace the old with new (idiom)
除草	to weed
除草劑	weed killer; herbicide
除號	division sign (math.)
除過	(dialect) except; besides
除邪	to guard against evil; to exorcise
除開	besides; except; to get rid of (sb)
除霜	to defrost; defrosting
除靈	to expel spirits; (old) to end the period of mourning
除非	only if (..., or otherwise, ...); only when; only in the case that
除顫	to defibrillate
陪	to accompany; to keep sb company; to assist
陪伴	to accompany
陪侍	to wait upon (older people); to accompany; attendant
陪同	to accompany
陪唱女	KTV hostess
陪唱小姐	KTV hostess
陪域	(math.) codomain
陪奩	dowry
陪嫁	dowry
陪審員	juror
陪審團	jury
陪床	to look after a hospitalized loved one
陪產	to be present during childbirth
陪產假	paternity leave
陪睡	to trade sex for favorable treatment (career advancement, higher grades, rent-free accommodation etc)
陪練	training partner; sparring partner
陪罪	to apologize; apology
陪聊	to keep sb company for a chat; (esp.) to be a paid escort
陪葬	to be buried with or next to dead person (of deceased's partner, or of funerary objects)
陪葬品	funerary objects (items buried together with the dead)
陪襯	to serve as a foil; to set off; a foil; a contrast
陪護	to attend to the needs of (an invalid, disabled person etc); caregiver
陪讀	to accompany one's child or spouse who is studying overseas
陪送	dowry; to give as a dowry; to accompany sb
陪都	provisional capital of a country (e.g. in time of war)
陪酒	to drink along (with sb)
陬	corner; foot of mountain
陰	overcast (weather); cloudy; shady
陰世	the netherworld; the world of the dead
陰乾	to dry in the shade
陰兵	underworld soldier; ghost soldier
陰冷	gloomy and cold
陰功	hidden merits
陰司	hell; nether world
陰唇	(anatomy) labia (of the vulva)
陰囊	scrotum
陰天	cloudy day; overcast sky
陰婚	ghost marriage (in which one or both parties are dead)
陰宅	(feng shui term) tomb
陰屁	queef
陰山	Yin mountains in Inner Mongolia
陰差陽錯	(idiom) due to an unexpected turn of events
陰平	high and level tone, the first tone of putonghua
陰平聲	high and level tone, the first tone of putonghua
陰影	(lit. and fig.) shadow
陰德	secret virtue
陰性	negative; feminine
陰戶	vulva
陰招	dirty trick
陰晦	overcast; gloomy
陰暗	dim; dark; overcast
陰暗面	the dark side (of society etc)
陰曆	lunar calendar
陰曹	hell; the inferno
陰曹地府	netherworld; Kingdom of the Underworld; Hades
陰柔	gentle and reserved; soft; feminine
陰核	clitoris
陰桫	a hard wood
陰森	gloomy; sinister; eerie
陰極	cathode; negative electrode (i.e. emitting electrons)
陰極射線管	cathode ray tube
陰毒	sinister; insidious
陰毛	pubic hair
陰沉	gloomy
陰沉沉	dark (weather, mood)
陰涼	shady
陰涼處	shady place
陰溝	sewer; underground drainage channel
陰溝裡翻船	to meet with unexpected failure (idiom)
陰濕	dark and moist
陰燃	to burn without flame; to smolder
陰私	shameful secret
陰穴	cave; (coll.) vagina
陰笑	to laugh evilly
陰筊	(folk religion) unfavorable divination result from casting moon blocks 筊杯[jiao3 bei1] (both blocks rounded side up); negative response from a deity
陰精	sex fluids
陰莖	penis
陰莖套	condom
陰蒂	clitoris
陰虛	deficiency of yin 陰|阴[yin1] (TCM)
陰虛火旺	an excess of heat caused by a deficiency in Yin energy (idiom)
陰蝨	crab louse; pubic louse
陰謀	to conspire; to plot; a conspiracy; a plot
陰謀家	schemer; conspirator
陰謀詭計	crafty plots and machinations (idiom)
陰謀論	conspiracy theory
陰謀顛覆政府罪	the crime of conspiracy to overthrow the government
陰道	vagina
陰道口	female external genitalia (anatomy); vulva
陰道炎	vaginal infection; inflammation of the vulva or vagina; colpitis
陰道瓣	hymen
陰部	genitalia
陰門	vulva; pudenda
陰間	the nether world; Hades; (neologism) (slang) disturbing
陰阜	mons veneris
陰陽	yin and yang
陰陽合同	a deal where the parties collude to sign an under-the-table "yin contract" 陰合同|阴合同 as well as an ostensibly genuine "yang contract" 陽合同|阳合同 in order to deceive authorities
陰陽家	School of Yin-Yang of the Warring States Period (475-221 BC) founded by Zou Yan 鄒衍|邹衍[Zou1 Yan3]
陰陽怪氣	eccentric; peculiar; mystifying
陰險	treacherous; sinister
陰險毒辣	treacherous and murderous
陰離子	negative ion; anion (physics)
陰雨	overcast and rainy
陰雲	dark cloud
陰電	negative electric charge
陰霾	haze
陰面	shady side; dark side
陰風	chill wind; (fig.) evil wind
陰騭	charitable acts performed in secret; hidden good deeds
陰鬱	(of skies or one's mood) gloomy
陰魂	ghost; spirit
陰魂不散	lit. the soul of a deceased has not yet dispersed (idiom)
陰鷙	malicious; treacherous
陲	frontier
陳	surname Chen; Chen (c. 1045 – 479 BC), a Zhou dynasty state
陳仁錫	Chen Renxi (1581-1636), late Ming scholar and prolific author
陳仲琳	Chen Zhonglin, aka Xu Zhonglin 許仲琳|许仲琳[Xu3 Zhong4 lin2] (c. 1567–c. 1620), Ming novelist, to whom the fantasy novel Investiture of the Gods 封神演義|封神演义[Feng1 shen2 Yan3 yi4] is attributed, together with Lu Xixing 陸西星|陆西星[Lu4 Xi1 xing1]
陳伯達	Chen Boda (1904-1989), communist party theorist, interpreter of Maoism
陳倉	ancient name of Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
陳倉區	Chencang, a district of Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
陳元光	Chen Yuanguang (657-711), Tang dynasty general with posthumous title 開漳聖王|开漳圣王[Kai1 zhang1 sheng4 wang2], i.e. Sacred King, founder of Zhangzhou 漳州[Zhang1 zhou1], Fujian
陳兵	to deploy troops; to mass troops
陳其邁	Chen Chi-mai (1964-), Taiwanese DPP politician, vice premier of the Republic of China (2019-)
陳再道	Chen Zaidao (1909-1993), general in the People's Liberation Army
陳冠希	Edison Chen (1980–), Hong Kong Canadian actor, singer and fashion entrepreneur
陳凱歌	Chen Kaige (1952-), Chinese movie director
陳列	to display; to exhibit
陳列室	exhibition room; display room
陳列臺	display stand; showcase stall
陳勝	Chen Sheng (died 208 BC), Qin dynasty rebel, leader of the Chen Sheng Wu Guang Uprising 陳勝吳廣起義|陈胜吴广起义[Chen2 Sheng4 Wu2 Guang3 Qi3 yi4]
陳勝吳廣起義	Chen Sheng Wu Guang Uprising (209 BC), near the end of the Qin dynasty
陳化	to age; to mature (wine, tea, cheese etc)
陳壽	Chen Shou (233-297), Western Jin dynasty 西晉|西晋[Xi1 Jin4] historian, author of History of the Three Kingdoms 三國志|三国志[San1 guo2 zhi4]
陳天華	Chen Tianhua (1875-1905), anti-Qing revolutionary from Hunan, drowned himself in Japan in 1905
陳奏	to present a memorial (to the Emperor)
陳奕迅	Eason Chan (1974-), Hong Kong pop singer and actor
陳套	hackneyed formula; worn-out convention
陳嬌	Chen Jiao, first wife of emperor 漢武帝|汉武帝[Han4 Wu3 di4], died c. 110 BC
陳子昂	Chen Zi'ang (c. 661-702), Tang dynasty poet
陳屍	to lie dead (in a location); to be found dead (somewhere) (used in news reports about unnatural or unexplained deaths)
陳巴爾虎旗	Old Barag Banner in Hulunbuir 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
陳希同	Chen Xitong (1930–2013), mayor of Beijing at the time of 4th June 1989 Tiananmen incident
陳年	(of wine) aged; (of debts etc) old; longstanding
陳建仁	Chen Chien-jen (1951-), Taiwanese politician, vice president of the Republic of China 2016-2020
陳德良	Tran Duc Luong (1937-), former president of Vietnam
陳忱	Chen Chen (1613-1670), novelist and poet at the Ming-Qing transition, author of Water Margin sequel 水滸後傳|水浒后传
陳恭尹	Chen Gongyin (1631-1700), early Qing dynasty poet
陳情	to present a petition; to submit an appeal; to express a grievance to an authority
陳慶炎	Tony Tan (1940-), president of Singapore 2011-2017
陳摶	Chen Tuan (871-989), a legendary Daoist sage
陳放	to display
陳方安生	Anson Chan (1940-), chief secretary for administration, Hong Kong (1997-2001)
陳景潤	Chen Jingrun (1933-1996) Chinese number theorist
陳書	History of Chen of the Southern Dynasties, ninth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled by Yao Silian 姚思廉[Yao2 Si1 lian2] in 636 during Tang dynasty, 36 scrolls
陳木勝	Benny Chan (Hong Kong film director)
陳橋兵變	the military revolt of 960 that led Zhao Kuangyin 趙匡胤|赵匡胤 to found the Song dynasty
陳毅	Chen Yi (1901-1972), communist general and politician, Marshal of PLA from 1955, Mayor of Shanghai in 1950s, PRC foreign minister 1958-1972
陳水扁	Chen Shui-Bian (1950-), Taiwanese DPP 民進黨|民进党 politician, president of the Republic of China 2000-2008
陳沖	Joan Chen (1961–), Chinese-born American actress and film director
陳炯明	Chen Jiongming (1878-1933), a leading warlord of Guangdong faction, defeated in 1925 and fled to Hong Kong
陳獨秀	Chen Duxiu (1879-1942), co-founder of the Chinese Communist Party in 1921
陳皮	dried tangerine peel (used in cuisine and traditional Chinese medicine)
陳省身	Shiing-Shen Chern (1911-2004), Chinese-American mathematician
陳米	old rice (typically stored for over a year)
陳納德	Claire Lee Chennault (1890–1958), American military aviator and brigadier general, commander of the Flying Tigers 飛虎隊|飞虎队[Fei1 hu3 dui4], a volunteer group that assisted China in resisting Japanese forces during World War II
陳紹	aged Shaoxing wine (abbr. for 陳年紹興酒|陈年绍兴酒[chen2 nian2 Shao4 xing1 jiu3])
陳美	Vanessa-Mae (1978–), Singaporean-born British violinist and skier
陳腐	trite; clichéd; empty and trite
陳舊	old-fashioned; out of date; obsolete; antiquated
陳規	outmoded conventions; old-fashioned ways
陳規舊習	old rules and customs
陳規陋習	(idiom) outmoded conventions; old-fashioned ways
陳設	to display; to exhibit; to set out; furnishings
陳訴	to state; to present; to set forth (a situation, opinion, grievance etc), often to an authority
陳詞	(formal) to state one's views (esp. in court)
陳詞濫調	cliché; commonplace; truism
陳說	to state; to assert
陳谷子爛芝麻	lit. stale grain, overcooked sesame (idiom); fig. the same boring old gossip
陳貨	old stock; shopworn goods
陳賬	an old debt; a longstanding debt
陳跡	traces of the past; vestiges; historical remains
陳述	to state; to declare
陳述句	declarative sentence
陳述書	written statement; written declaration
陳酒	well-aged wine with a mellow, rich taste
陳醋	mature vinegar
陳陳相因	(idiom) to slavishly follow old patterns; to stick to outdated conventions
陳雲	Chen Yun (1905-1995), communist leader and economist
陳雲林	Chen Yunlin (1941-), chairman of PRC Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits (ARATS) 海峽兩岸關係協會|海峡两岸关系协会[Hai3 xia2 Liang3 an4 Guan1 xi5 Xie2 hui4] (2008-2013)
陳露	Lu Chen (1976–), Chinese figure skater, 1995 world champion
陳香梅	Chen Xiangmei (1925–2018), also known as Anna Chennault, Chinese-American writer and Republican politician, wife of Claire Lee Chennault 陳納德|陈纳德[Chen2 na4 de2]
陴	parapet
陵	mound; tomb; hill
陵園	cemetery; mausoleum park
陵城區	Lingcheng, a district of Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
陵墓	tomb; mausoleum
陵夷	to deteriorate; to decline; to slump
陵寢	tomb (of king or emperor)
陵川縣	Lingchuan, a county in Jincheng City 晉城市|晋城市[Jin4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
陵水	Lingshui Lizu Autonomous County, Hainan
陵水縣	Lingshui Lizu Autonomous County, Hainan
陵水黎族自治縣	Lingshui Lizu Autonomous County, Hainan
陶	pottery; pleased
陶俑	a pottery figurine buried with the dead
陶冶	lit. to fire pots and smelt metal; fig. to educate
陶冶情操	to cultivate one's mind; to build character
陶匠	potter
陶哲軒	Terence Tao, Chinese-Australian mathematician, Fields medalist in 2006
陶喆	David Tao (1969-), Taiwanese singer-songwriter
陶器	pottery
陶土	potter's clay; kaolin
陶宗儀	Tao Zongyi (c. 1329-1410), Yuan dynasty scholar
陶工	pottery; potter
陶淵明	Tao Yuanming (c. 365-427), Jin dynasty writer and poet
陶潛	Tao Qian or Tao Yuanming 陶淵明|陶渊明 (c. 365-427), Jin dynasty writer and poet
陶然	(literary) happy and carefree
陶瓷	pottery and porcelain; ceramics
陶瓷器	pottery; chinaware
陶甄	to mold and educate people
陶盅	pottery bowl
陶硯	ink stone made of pottery
陶笛	ocarina (musical instrument)
陶藝	ceramic art
陶行知	Tao Xingzhi (1891-1946), Chinese educator and reformer
陶醉	to be infatuated with; to be drunk with; to be enchanted with; to revel in
陷	pitfall; trap; to get stuck
陷入	to sink into; to get caught up in; to land in (a predicament)
陷入牢籠	to fall into a trap; ensnared
陷坑	pitfall; pit as animal trap
陷害	to entrap; to set up; to frame (up)
陷於	caught in (a bad situation); to fall into (trap etc)
陷於癱瘓	to be paralyzed; to come to a standstill
陷落	to surrender (of a fortress); to fall (to the enemy)
陷落帶	area of subsidence
陷阱	pitfall; snare; trap
陸	(bound form) land (as opposed to the sea)
陸上	land-based; on land
陸上風電	onshore wind power
陸克文	Chinese name adopted by Kevin Rudd (1957–), Australian politician proficient in Mandarin, prime minister 2007–2010 and 2013
陸勞	laborer from mainland China (Tw)
陸地	dry land (as opposed to the sea)
陸均松	podocarp tree (Dacrydium pierrei)
陸坡	continental slope (boundary of continental shelf)
陸域風電	(Tw) onshore wind power
陸基	land-based
陸基導彈	land-based missile
陸委會	Mainland Affairs Council (Taiwan), abbr. for 大陸委員會|大陆委员会
陸客	(Tw) (neologism c. 2008) mainland Chinese tourist
陸川縣	Luchuan, a county in Yulin City 玉林市[Yu4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
陸徵祥	Lu Zhengxiang (1871-1949), Chinese diplomat and Catholic monk
陸戰	(military) to fight on land; ground warfare
陸戰隊	marines; marine corps
陸探微	Lu Tanwei (active c. 450-490), one of the Four Great Painters of the Six Dynasties 六朝四大家
陸架	continental shelf
陸棲	(of an animal) terrestrial; land-based
陸榮廷	Lu Rongting (1858-1928), provincial governor of Guangxi under the Qing, subsequently leader of old Guangxi warlord faction
陸機	Lu Ji (261-303), Chinese writer and literary critic
陸河縣	Luhe, a county in Shanwei City 汕尾市[Shan4 wei3 Shi4], Guangdong
陸海空三軍	army, navy, and air force
陸海空軍	army, navy and air force
陸港	mainland China and Hong Kong
陸港矛盾	tensions between mainland China and Hong Kong (since 1997)
陸游	Lu You (1125–1210), widely regarded as the greatest of the Southern Song poets
陸生	terrestrial (animal, species)
陸續	in turn; successively; one after the other
陸羽	Lu Yu (733-804), Chinese writer from Tang dynasty, known for his obsession with tea
陸良縣	Luliang, a county in Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
陸西星	Lu Xixing (1520-c. 1601), Ming Daoist author, to whom the fantasy novel Investiture of the Gods 封神演義|封神演义[Feng1 shen2 Yan3 yi4] is attributed, together with Xu Zhonglin 許仲琳|许仲琳[Xu3 Zhong4 lin2]
陸豐市	Lufeng, a county-level city in Shanwei City 汕尾市[Shan4 wei3 Shi4], Guangdong
陸貝	land snail
陸路	land route; overland route
陸軍	army; ground forces
陸軍上校	colonel
陸軍中尉	lieutenant
陸運	land transport
陸配	(Tw) spouse from mainland China
陸陸續續	in succession; one after another; continuously
陸龜	tortoise
陻	to block
陼	islet; bank
陽	positive (electric.); sun; male principle (Taoism)
陽世	world of the living
陽世間	the world of the living
陽信縣	Yangxin, a county in Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
陽傘	parasol
陽光	sunshine; (of personality) upbeat; energetic
陽光房	sunroom
陽光明媚	the sun shines brightly (idiom)
陽光普照	(idiom) sunlight shines over all things; drenched in sunlight
陽光浴	sunbathing
陽具	penis
陽剛	manly; masculine
陽原縣	Yangyuan, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
陽城縣	Yangcheng, a county in Jincheng City 晉城市|晋城市[Jin4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
陽壽	predestined lifespan
陽奉陰違	outward devotion but inner opposition (idiom); to pay lip service
陽宗	(archaic) the sun
陽山縣	Yangshan, a county in Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
陽平	evenly rising tone, the second tone of putonghua
陽平聲	evenly rising tone, the second tone of putonghua
陽性	positive; masculine
陽文	characters cut in relief
陽新縣	Yangxin, a county in Huangshi City 黃石市|黄石市[Huang2 shi2 Shi4], Hubei
陽明區	Yangming, a district of Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
陽明山	Mt Yangming in Hunan; Mt Yangming in north Taiwan, near Taibei
陽春	mild spring weather
陽春型	entry-level (car, device etc) (Tw)
陽春市	Yangchun, a county-level city in Yangjiang City 陽江市|阳江市[Yang2 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
陽春白雪	melodies of the elite in the state of Chu 楚國|楚国[Chu3 guo2]
陽春麵	plain noodles in broth
陽曆	solar calendar; Western (Gregorian) calendar
陽曲縣	Yangqu, a county in Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
陽朔縣	Yangshuo, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
陽東區	Yangdong, a district of Yangjiang City 陽江市|阳江市[Yang2 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
陽極	anode; positive electrode; positive pole
陽江市	Yangjiang, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
陽泉市	Yangquan, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
陽溝	open drainage channel; ditch
陽炎	dazzling sunlight; glare of sunlight
陽物	penis
陽痿	(medicine) impotence
陽盛	excess of yang 陽|阳[yang2] in TCM
陽臺	balcony; porch
陽虛	deficiency of yang 陽|阳[yang2] (TCM)
陽西縣	Yangxi, a county in Yangjiang City 陽江市|阳江市[Yang2 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
陽謀	to conspire openly; overt plot
陽谷縣	Yanggu, a county in Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
陽道	penis
陽間	the world of the living
陽關	Yangguan or Southern Pass on the south Silk Road in Gansu, 70 km south of Dunhuang 敦煌
陽關大道	(lit.) the road through Yangguan 陽關|阳关[Yang2 guan1]
陽關道	same as 陽關大道|阳关大道[Yang2 guan1 Da4 dao4]
陽離子	positive ion; cation (physics)
陽電	positive electric charge
陽電子	positron; also called 正電子|正电子[zheng4 dian4 zi3]
陽電極	anode; positive electrode (i.e. attracting electrons)
陽電荷	positive electric charge
陽高縣	Yanggao, a county in Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
陾	sound of stonemason's shovel
隃	exceed; jump over
隅	corner
隆	surname Long; short for 吉隆坡[Ji2 long2 po1], Kuala Lumpur
隆中	scenic area near Xiangyang 襄陽|襄阳[Xiang1 yang2] in Hubei, known as the secluded mountainous location where Zhuge Liang 諸葛亮|诸葛亮[Zhu1 ge3 Liang4] lived as a young man
隆乳	breast enlargement
隆乳手術	breast enlargement operation; boob job
隆冬	midwinter; the depth of winter
隆化縣	Longhua, a county in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
隆回縣	Longhui, a county in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
隆堯縣	Longyao, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
隆子縣	Lhünzê, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
隆安縣	Long'an, a county in Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
隆德縣	Longde, a county in Guyuan City 固原市[Gu4 yuan2 Shi4], Ningxia
隆情	profound love
隆情厚誼	profound love, generous friendship (idiom)
隆昌市	Longchang, a county-level city in Neijiang City 內江市|内江市[Nei4 jiang1 Shi4], Sichuan
隆林各族自治縣	Longlin Various Nationalities Autonomous County, in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
隆河	Rhone, river of Switzerland and France
隆胸	to enlarge the breasts; breast enlargement
隆起	to swell; to bulge
隆重	grand; prosperous; ceremonious
隆陽區	Longyang, a district of Baoshan City 保山市[Bao3 shan1 Shi4], Yunnan
隆隆	rumble
隆隆聲	rumble (sound of thunder or gunfire)
隈	bay; cove
隉	dangerous
隊	squadron; team; group
隊伍	ranks; troops; queue
隊列	formation (of troops); alignment; (computing) queue
隊友	teammate; fellow team member
隊員	team member
隊尾	back of the line; last one in line
隊形	formation
隊旗	team pennant
隊服	team uniform
隊部	office; headquarters
隊長	captain; team leader
隋	the Sui dynasty (581–617 AD); surname Sui
隋代	Sui dynasty (581-617)
隋唐	Sui (581-617) and Tang dynasties (618-907)
隋唐演義	Dramatized History of Sui and Tang, novel by Qing dynasty author Chu Renhuo 褚人獲|褚人获[Chu3 Ren2 huo4]
隋文帝	Wendi (541-604), posthumous name of the first Sui emperor, reigned 581-604
隋書	History of the Sui Dynasty, thirteenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Wei Zheng 魏徵|魏征[Wei4 Zheng1] in 636 during Tang Dynasty, 85 scrolls
隋朝	Sui dynasty (581-617)
隋末	last years of the Sui dynasty; early 7th century AD
隋煬帝	Emperor Yang of Sui (569-618), said to have murdered his father and brother to seize the throne, reigned 604-618
隍	dry moat; god of city
階	rank or step; stairs
階乘	the factorial of a number, e.g. 5! = 5.4.3.2.1 = 120
階位	order; rank; level
階地	terrace (geography)
階層	social class
階梯	flight of steps; (fig.) stepping stone; way to reach the goal of
階梯教室	lecture theater
階梯計價	volumetric pricing; tiered pricing; differential pricing
階段	stage; section; phase
階段性	specific to a particular stage (of a project etc)
階級	(social) class
階級成分	social composition
階級鬥爭	class struggle
隒	the appearance of a mountain, as if two pots were standing one upon the other
隔	to separate; to partition; to stand or lie between
隔三差五	(idiom) every few days; every once in a while
隔世	separated by a generation; a lifetime ago
隔壁	next door; neighbor
隔壁有耳	walls have ears
隔壁老王	Mr Wang from next door (term used jocularly to refer to a neighbor who is supposedly sleeping with one's wife)
隔壁鄰居	next-door neighbor
隔夜	overnight; of the previous day
隔天	the next day; on alternate days
隔山	(old) (of a half-sibling) having the same mother but different father
隔岸觀火	to watch the fires burning across the river
隔年皇曆	lit. almanac from years back (idiom); obsolete practice
隔扇	partition; partition board
隔斷	partition; to stand between; wall or fence serving as partition
隔斷板	partition board
隔板	divider; partition
隔水	(old) (of a half-sibling) having the same father but different mother
隔油池	grease trap
隔熱	to insulate thermally; insulating (material, effect etc)
隔牆有耳	the walls have ears (idiom)
隔空	from a distance; through the air; remotely (esp. by means of telekinesis, magic, technology etc)
隔空喊話	to converse with sb by shouting from some distance away
隔絕	to cut off; to isolate; isolated (from the world)
隔膜	diaphragm (anatomy); distant (socially aloof)
隔行	to interlace; to interleave (computing)
隔行如隔山	different trades, worlds apart (idiom); to sb outside the profession, it is a closed book
隔行掃描	interlaced scanning
隔都	(loanword) ghetto
隔開	to separate
隔間	compartment; booth; cubicle
隔閡	misunderstanding; estrangement; (language etc) barrier
隔離	to separate; to isolate
隔離霜	pre-makeup cream; makeup base; foundation primer
隔靴搔癢	lit. to scratch the outside of the boot (idiom); fig. beside the point
隔音	soundproofing
隔音符號	apostrophe, as used in pinyin orthography (i.e. to mark a boundary between two syllables, as in "dàng'àn" 檔案|档案[dang4 an4])
隕	(bound form) to fall from the sky
隕命	to die; to perish
隕坑	meteorite crater
隕星	meteorite; falling star
隕石	meteorite; aerolite
隕石坑	meteorite impact crater
隕石雨	meteorite shower
隕落	to fall down; to decay; to fall from the sky
隕首	to offer one's life in sacrifice
隗	surname Kui; Zhou Dynasty vassal state
隘	(bound form) narrow; (bound form) a defile; a narrow pass
隘口	mountain pass
隘谷	ravine
隘路	defile; narrow passage
隙	crack; crevice; gap or interval
隙縫	aperture
際	border; edge; boundary
際會	opportunity; chance
際遇	circumstance(s) encountered in one's life (favorable or otherwise)
障	to block; to hinder; to obstruct
障壁	barrier
障眼	to hinder the eyesight; (fig.) to trick into not noticing
障眼法	diversionary tactic; smokescreen
障礙	barrier; obstruction; hindrance
障礙性貧血	aplastic anemia (med.)
障礙滑雪	(snow skiing) slalom
障礙物	obstacle; hindrance
障礙跑	steeplechase (athletics)
障蔽	to obstruct
隞	Ao, Shang Dynasty capital (northeast part of modern day Zhengzhou, Henan)
隧	tunnel; underground passage
隧洞	tunnel
隧道	tunnel
隨	to follow; to comply with; varying according to...
隨之	thereupon; subsequently; accordingly
隨之而後	from that; following from that; after that
隨伴	to accompany
隨你	as you wish
隨便	as one wishes; as one pleases; at random
隨俗	according to custom; to do as local custom requires
隨信	attached with the letter
隨信附上	enclosed with (this) letter
隨即	immediately; presently; following which
隨口	(speak) without thinking the matter through
隨口胡謅	to talk random nonsense (idiom); to say whatever comes into one's head
隨叫隨到	to be available at any time; to be on call
隨同	accompanying
隨和	amiable; easygoing
隨員	attendant
隨喜	(Buddhism) to be moved at the sight of good deeds
隨地	according to the location; everywhere; any place
隨堂測驗	quiz (student assessment)
隨大流	to follow the crowd; going with the tide
隨大溜	to follow the crowd; going with the tide
隨州市	Suizhou, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
隨帶	to carry along; portable
隨後	afterward; later; subsequently; following that
隨從	to accompany; to follow; to attend
隨心	to fulfill one's desire; to find sth satisfactory
隨心所欲	(idiom) to follow one's heart's desires; to do as one pleases
隨性	casual; laid-back; doing as one pleases
隨想	random thoughts; (in book titles etc) impressions; jottings
隨想曲	(music) capriccio
隨意	as one wishes; according to one's wishes; at will
隨感	random thoughts; impressions
隨手	conveniently; without extra trouble; while doing it
隨插即用	plug and play (computing)
隨時	at any time; at all times; at the right time; whenever necessary
隨時待命	on call; always available; ready at all times
隨時隨地	anytime and anywhere
隨機	according to the situation; pragmatic; random
隨機存取	random access (memory)
隨機存取存儲器	random access memory (RAM)
隨機存取記憶體	random access memory (RAM)
隨機性	randomness; stochasticity
隨機應變	to change according to the situation (idiom); pragmatic
隨機效應	stochastic effect
隨機數	random number
隨機時間	random period of time; random interval
隨機變數	(math.) random variable
隨波	to drift with the waves
隨波逐流	to drift with the waves and go with the flow (idiom); to follow the crowd blindly
隨筆	essay
隨緣	to go with the flow; to accept things as they come
隨縣	Sui County or Suixian, a county in Suizhou City 隨州市|随州市[Sui2 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
隨聲附和	to parrot other people's words (idiom); to chime in with others
隨著	along with; in the wake of; following
隨葬品	burial goods; burial gifts
隨處	everywhere; anywhere
隨處可見	can be seen everywhere
隨行	to accompany
隨行人員	entourage; retinue
隨行就市	(of a price) to fluctuate according to the market
隨訪	to accompany
隨身	to (carry) on one's person; to (take) with one
隨身碟	(Tw) USB flash drive; thumb drive
隨身聽	Walkman (trademark); portable stereo
隨身道具	(theater) personal prop (spectacles, fan etc)
隨遇而安	at home wherever one is (idiom); ready to adapt; flexible
隨順	to follow; to go along with
隨風	wind-borne; tossed about by the wind
隨風倒	to bend with the wind
隨風倒柳	lit. a willow that bends with the wind
隨風倒舵	to trim one's sails with the wind
隩	bay; cove
險	danger; dangerous; rugged
險些	narrowly; almost; nearly
險兆	evil omen
險勝	to win by a narrow margin
險固	(of terrain) rugged, providing a natural barrier to invasion
險境	critical circumstances; risky conditions; danger zone
險峰	perilous peak; the lofty heights
險峻	(of terrain) mountainous; rugged
險情	peril; dangerous circumstance
險惡	dangerous; sinister; vicious
險灘	shoals; rapids; treacherous section of a river
險球	dangerous ball (in soccer, volleyball etc)
險症	critical illness
險種	insurance type
險要	strategically situated and easy to defend; strategic location
險詐	sinister and deceitful
險象環生	dangers spring up all around (idiom); surrounded by perils
險阻	dangerous and difficult (path)
隮	to go up; to fall; rainbow
隰	low; marshy land
隰縣	Xi County or Xixian, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
隱	(bound form) secret; hidden; concealed; crypto-
隱事	a secret
隱伏	to hide; to lie low
隱位	(immunology) cryptotope; cryptic epitope
隱修	monasticism
隱修士	monk (Christian)
隱修院	monastery (Christian); abbey
隱函數	implicit function
隱匿	to cover up; to hide; to conceal
隱去	to disappear; to hide
隱君子	(literary) hermit sage
隱含	to contain in a concealed form; to keep covered up; implicit
隱喻	metaphor
隱士	hermit
隱姓埋名	to conceal one's identity; living incognito
隱婚	to be married but keep it secret from family, colleagues or the general public
隱密	secret; hidden
隱寫術	steganography
隱射	(to fire) innuendo; to insinuate
隱居	to live in seclusion
隱形	invisible
隱形眼鏡	contact lens
隱忍	to suffer in silence; to endure hardship or injustice without complaint; to swallow one's grievances
隱忍不發	to keep one's emotions inside oneself; to restrain one's emotions
隱忍不言	to keep one's emotions inside oneself; to restrain one's emotions
隱性	hidden; crypto-; recessive (gene)
隱性基因	recessive gene
隱患	a danger concealed within sth; hidden damage
隱情	sth one wishes to keep secret; ulterior motive; a subject best avoided
隱情不報	not to report sth; to keep sth secret
隱惡揚善	(idiom) to highlight sb's good points but omit to mention their faults
隱意	implied meaning
隱憂	secret concern; private worry
隱映	to set off one another
隱晦	vague; ambiguous; veiled
隱棲動物學	cryptozoology
隱沒	to vanish gradually; to disappear; to fade out
隱滅	to fade away; to vanish; to disappear
隱然	faintly; indistinctly
隱燃	burning with no flame; fire beneath the surface; hidden combustion
隱現	glimpse (of something hidden)
隱生宙	Cryptozoic; geological eon before the appearance of abundant fossils
隱疾	an unmentionable illness (e.g. venereal disease)
隱病不報	not to tell others of one's illness
隱痛	hidden anguish; secret suffering; (medicine) dull pain
隱睪	undescended testis; cryptorchidism
隱瞞	to conceal; to hide (a taboo subject); to cover up the truth
隱瞞不報	to cover up (a matter that should be reported to the authorities)
隱私	secrets; private business; privacy
隱私權	privacy right
隱秘	secret; hidden
隱秘難言	too embarrassing to mention
隱約	vague; faint; indistinct
隱約其辭	equivocal speech; to use vague or ambiguous language
隱翅蟲	rove beetle
隱色	protective coloration (esp. of insects); camouflage
隱花植物	Cryptogamae; cryptogamous plant (botany)
隱蔽	to conceal; to hide; covert
隱藏	to hide; to conceal; to mask
隱藏處	shelter; hiding place
隱血	occult blood (in medicine, fecal blood from internal bleeding)
隱衷	a secret; sth best not told to anyone; confidential information
隱襲	insidious
隱語	secret language; codeword
隱諱	to hold back from saying precisely what is on one's mind
隱諱號	cross symbol (×), used to replace a character one does not wish to display
隱跡	hidden tracks
隱跡埋名	to live incognito
隱身	to hide oneself; invisible (person or online status)
隱身草	legendary grass conferring invisibility
隱退	to retire (from society, esp. from politics); to vanish
隱逸	to live in seclusion; reclusive; hermit
隱遁	to disappear from view; to live in seclusion
隱避	to hide; to conceal and avoid (contact); to keep sth concealed
隱隱	faint; indistinct
隱隱作痛	to ache dully
隱隱約約	(idiom) vaguely; faintly; indistinctly
隱隱綽綽	faint; indistinct
隱顯	appearing and disappearing; dimly visible; intermittent
隱顯目標	intermittent target
隱飾	a cover-up
隱龜	Mary River turtle (Elusor macrurus)
隳	destroy; overthrow
隴	short name for Gansu 甘肅|甘肃[Gan1 su4]
隴南市	Longnan, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
隴川縣	Longchuan, a county in Dehong Dai and Jingpo Autonomous Prefecture 德宏傣族景頗族自治州|德宏傣族景颇族自治州[De2 hong2 Dai3 zu2 Jing3 po1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
隴海	Jiangsu-Gansu railway; abbr. for 隴海鐵路|陇海铁路[Long3 Hai3 tie3 lu4]
隴海鐵路	Jiangsu-Gansu railway
隴縣	Long County or Longxian, a county in Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
隴西縣	Longxi, a county in Dingxi City 定西市[Ding4 xi1 Shi4], Gansu
隸	(bound form) a person in servitude; low-ranking subordinate
隸圉	servants; underlings
隸屬	to be subordinate to; to be under the jurisdiction of
隸書	clerical script; official script (Chinese calligraphic style)
隹	short-tailed bird
隻	classifier for birds and certain animals, one of a pair, some utensils, vessels etc
隻字不提	(idiom) to say not a single word about it
隻身	alone; by oneself
隻雞斗酒	lit. a chicken and a bottle of wine (idiom); fig. ready to make an offering to the deceased, or to entertain guests
隼	falcon; Taiwan pr. [zhun3]
雀	(bound form) small bird; sparrow; also pr. [qiao3]
雀兒喜	(Tw) (name) Chelsea
雀兒山	Chola Mountains in Sichuan
雀噪	to be a noise in the world; to acquire notoriety
雀子	a freckle; lentigo
雀巢	Nestlé
雀形目	order Passeriformes (perching birds)
雀斑	freckles
雀盲	night blindness
雀盲眼	night blindness (dialect)
雀躍	excited; in high spirits
雀類	finch (family Fringillidae)
雀鳥	bird
雀鷹	(bird species of China) Eurasian sparrowhawk (Accipiter nisus)
雁	wild goose
雁塔區	Yanta, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
雁山區	Yanshan, a district of Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
雁峰區	Yanfeng, a district of Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
雁杳魚沈	without news from sb (idiom)
雁江區	Yanjiang, a district of Ziyang City 資陽市|资阳市[Zi1 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
雁蕩	Yandang mountains, famous scenic area in southeast Zhejiang
雁蕩山	Yandang mountains, famous scenic area in southeast Zhejiang
雁過拔毛	lit. to grab feathers from a flying goose
雂	(bird)
雄	male; staminate; grand
雄偉	grand; imposing; magnificent
雄健	vigorous; robust; powerful
雄厚	substantial; robust; ample; abundant
雄圖	grandiose plan; great ambition
雄壯	majestic; awesome; full of power and grandeur
雄安	Xiong'an New Area, a state-level new area in the Baoding area of Hebei, established in 2017
雄安新區	Xiong'an New Area, a state-level new area in the Baoding area of Hebei, established in 2017
雄峙	to stand imposingly
雄心	great ambition; lofty aspiration
雄心勃勃	aggressive and grand (idiom); ambitious; pushy
雄性	male
雄性激素	male hormone; testosterone
雄才大略	great skill and strategy
雄渾	vigorous; firm; forceful
雄激素	male hormone; testosterone
雄獅	male lion
雄獸	male animal
雄縣	Xiong County or Xiongxian, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
雄脫	pattern hair loss; androgenetic alopecia
雄蕊	stamen (male part of flower)
雄蜂	drone (bee)
雄貓	male cat, usually 公貓|公猫[gong1 mao1]
雄赳赳	valiantly; gallantly
雄起	(cry of encouragement); to arise; to stand up
雄踞	to be perched high; to be located prominently; to be preeminent
雄辯	eloquent; oratory; rhetoric
雄辯家	orator
雄配子	male gamete; sperm cell
雄酯酮	male hormone; testosterone
雄長	fierce and ambitious character; formidable person
雄雞	rooster
雄風	vigor; virility; dynamism
雄馬	male horse; stallion
雄體	male of a species
雄鷹	male eagle; tercel
雄鹿	Milwaukee Bucks (NBA team)
雄黃	realgar; red orpiment
雄黃酒	realgar wine (traditionally drunk during the Dragon Boat Festival 端午節|端午节[Duan1 wu3 jie2])
雅	elegant
雅丹	(geology) (loanword) yardang
雅事	refined activities of the intellectuals (regarding literature, paintings etc)
雅人	poetic individual; person of refined temperament
雅人深緻	refined pleasure of poetic minds
雅什	fine verse
雅俗共賞	can be enjoyed by scholars and lay-people alike (idiom)
雅克	Jacques (name)
雅典	Athens, capital of Greece
雅典娜	Athena
雅典的泰門	Timon of Athens, 1607 tragedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚[Sha1 shi4 bi3 ya4]
雅典衛城	the Acropolis (Athens)
雅利安	Aryan
雅加達	Jakarta, capital of Indonesia
雅司	yaws (infectious tropical disease)
雅司病	yaws (infectious tropical disease)
雅各	Jacob (name); James (name)
雅各伯	Jacob (name); Saint James
雅各書	Epistle of St James (in New Testament)
雅各賓派	Jacobin club, French revolutionary party that played a leading role in the reign of terror 1791-1794
雅士	elegant scholar
雅威	Yahweh
雅安市	Ya'an, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
雅座	(restaurant etc) private room; booth; comfortable seating
雅思	IELTS (International English Language Testing System)
雅恩德	Yaounde, capital of Cameroon
雅意	your kind offer; your valued advice; delicate interest and charm
雅愛	(hon.) your great kindness
雅懷	refined feelings; distinguished emotions
雅房	(Tw) rental room without private bathroom
雅拉神山	Mt Yarla Shampo, in Dawu County 道孚縣|道孚县[Dao4 fu2 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
雅拉雪山	Mt Yarla Shampo, in Dawu County 道孚縣|道孚县[Dao4 fu2 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
雅拉香波神山	Mt Yarla Shampo, in Dawu County 道孚縣|道孚县[Dao4 fu2 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
雅拉香波雪山	Mt Yarla Shampo, in Dawu County 道孚縣|道孚县[Dao4 fu2 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
雅故	old friend; correct interpretation
雅教	(hon.) your distinguished thoughts
雅望	(literary) spotless reputation
雅樂	formal ceremonial music of each succeeding Chinese dynasty starting with the Zhou
雅歌	part of the Book of Songs 詩經|诗经; a song; a poem set to elegant music
雅正	correct (literary); upright; (hon.) Please point out my shortcomings.
雅氣	elegance
雅江縣	Yajiang, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
雅法	Jaffa (Israeli port)
雅法港	Jaffa (Israel)
雅淡	simple and elegant
雅溫得	Yaoundé, capital city of Cameroon
雅潔	elegant and pure
雅爾塔	Yalta
雅玩	elegant pastime; refined plaything
雅痞	yuppie (loanword) (Tw)
雅皮	(loanword) yuppie
雅皮士	yuppie (loanword); young urban professional, 1980s slang
雅相	elegant appearance; dignity
雅礱江	Yalong river of Tibet and Sichuan
雅禮協會	Yale-China Association, independent organization founded in 1901
雅稱	elegant name; honorific
雅穆索戈	Yamoussoukro, capital of Ivory Coast (Tw)
雅羅魚	dace
雅美族	Tao or Yami, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
雅致	elegant; refined; in good taste
雅興	refined and elegant attitude of mind
雅芳	Avon (cosmetics company)
雅虎	Yahoo, Internet portal
雅號	refined appelation; (humor) sb's elegant monicker
雅觀	elegant and tasteful
雅言	valued advice
雅諾什	János (Hungarian name)
雅趣	elegant; refined; delicate and charming
雅鄭	court music and vulgar music (i.e. 雅樂|雅乐[ya3 yue4], music of the court, and 鄭聲|郑声[Zheng4 sheng1], music of the state of Zheng, which was regarded as lewd)
雅量	magnanimity; tolerance; high capacity for drinking
雅間	private room (in a restaurant, bath house, etc)
雅閣	Accord (Honda brand Japanese car model)
雅集	distinguished assembly (of scholars)
雅靜	elegant and calm; gentle; quiet
雅飭	elegant orderliness; poise
雅馬哈	Yamaha
雅馴	refined (of writing)
雅魯藏布大峽谷	Great Canyon of Yarlung Tsangpo-Brahmaputra (through the southeast Himalayas, from Tibet to Assam and Bangladesh)
雅魯藏布江	Yarlung Tsangpo River, Tibet
雅麗	elegant; refined beauty
集	to gather; to collect; collected works
集中	to concentrate; to centralize; to focus
集中器	concentrator
集中托運	consolidated cargo (transportation)
集中營	concentration camp
集刊	collection of papers (published as one volume)
集合	to gather; to assemble; (math.) set
集合名詞	collective noun (linguistics)
集合論	set theory (math.)
集合體	aggregate; ensemble; bundle
集團	group; bloc; corporation
集團軍	army grouping; collective army
集子	anthology; selected writing
集安市	Ji'an, a county-level city in Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
集寧區	Jining, a district of Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
集居	community; living together
集市	market; bazaar; fair
集市貿易	market trade
集思廣益	collecting opinions is of wide benefit (idiom); to pool wisdom for mutual benefit
集成	integrated (as in integrated circuit)
集成電路	integrated circuit
集成顯卡	integrated GPU (abbr. to 集顯|集显[ji2 xian3])
集採	centralized procurement (abbr. for 集中採購|集中采购[ji2 zhong1 cai3 gou4])
集攏	to gather; to assemble
集散	to assemble (goods, passengers etc from various locations) and dispatch (them)
集散地	distribution center
集料	aggregate; material gathered together; conglomerate (rocks)
集會	to gather; assembly; meeting
集材	(forestry) to log; to skid; to yard
集束	to cluster
集束炸彈	cluster bomb
集權	centralized power (history), e.g. under an Emperor or party
集油箱	oil sump
集注	to focus; to concentrate on
集火	(military, gaming) to concentrate fire on a single target
集管	header (of piping system)
集約	intensive
集納	to collect; to gather together
集結	to assemble; to concentrate; to mass
集線器	hub (network)
集美	(slang) close female friend; sis (near homophone of 姐妹[jie3 mei4])
集美區	Jimei, a district of Xiamen City 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 Shi4], Fujian
集群	clan; to clan together; to flock together
集聚	to assemble; to gather
集腋成裘	many hairs make a fur coat (idiom); many small contributions add up to sth big
集萃	treasury
集裝箱	container (for shipping)
集裝箱船	container ship
集訓	to train together; to practice as a group
集貿	market; trade
集資	to raise money; to accumulate funds
集資額	sum of money raised (in a share subscription)
集賢縣	Jixian, a county in Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
集運	cooperative transport; concentrated freight
集部	non-canonical text
集郵	stamp collecting; philately
集郵冊	stamp album
集郵簿	stamp album
集錄	to compile (various texts) into book form; a compilation
集錦	a collection of choice items (poems, photos etc)
集鎮	town
集電弓	pantograph (transportation)
集電桿	electric trolley pole
集韻	Jiyun, Chinese rime dictionary with 53,525 single-character entries, published in 11th century
集顯	(computing) integrated GPU (abbr. for 集成顯卡|集成显卡[ji2 cheng2 xian3 ka3])
集餐	communal dining where one takes one's food from dishes served to everyone at the table (contrasted with 分餐[fen1 can1])
集體	collective (decision); joint (effort); a group
集體主義	collectivism
集體化	collectivization; to collectivize
集體墳墓	mass grave
集體安全條約組織	Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO)
集體強姦	gang rape
集體戶	collective; joint household
集體經濟	collective economy
集體行走	pedestrian group (e.g. of tourists etc)
集體訴訟	(law) class action
集體防護	collective protection
集齊	to collect the complete set of
雇	to employ; to hire; to rent
雇主	employer
雇傭	to employ; to hire
雇傭兵	(military) mercenary
雇員	employee
雈	type of owl
雉	ringed pheasant
雉雞	(bird species of China) common pheasant (Phasianus colchicus)
雉鶉	(bird species of China) chestnut-throated monal-partridge (Tetraophasis obscurus)
雊	crowing of pheasant
雋	meaningful; significant
雋品	outstanding work
雋妙	extremely elegant
雋拔	handsome (of people); graceful (of calligraphy)
雋敏	refined and smart
雋材	talent
雋楚	outstanding; extraordinary; preeminent
雋永	meaningful; thought-provoking; significant
雋茂	outstanding talent
雋語	epigram; meaningful or significant speech
雋譽	high fame
雌	female; Taiwan pr. [ci1]
雌三醇	estriol
雌性	female
雌性接口	female connector
雌性激素	estrogen
雌激素	estrogen
雌獅	lioness
雌競	(slang) negative, toxic competition between women (esp. in seeking the favor and approval of men)
雌蕊	pistil
雌雄	male and female
雌雄同體	hermaphrodite
雌雄同體人	a hermaphrodite
雌雄同體性	hermaphroditism
雌雄異色	sexual coloration
雌體	female of a species
雌鹿	doe
雌黃	orpiment; arsenic trisulfide As2S3; make changes in writing
雍	surname Yong
雍和	harmony
雍和宮	Yonghe Temple; Lama Temple (Beijing)
雍容	natural; graceful; and poised
雍容大度	generous
雍正	Yongzheng, reign name of Qing emperor (1722-1735)
雍睦	harmonious; friendly
雍重	cumbersome
雍雍	harmonious; peaceful
雎	osprey; fish hawk
雒	black horse with white mane; fearful
雕	to carve; to engrave; shrewd
雕像	sculpture; (carved) statue
雕刻	to carve; to engrave; carving
雕刻品	sculpture
雕刻家	sculptor
雕塑	a statue; a Buddhist image; sculpture
雕梁畫棟	richly ornamented (building)
雕楹碧檻	carved pillar, jade doorsill (idiom); heavily decorated environment
雕欄玉砌	(lit.) carved railings and jade steps (idiom)
雕漆	carved lacquerware
雕版	a carved printing block
雕琢	to sculpt; to carve (jade); ornate artwork
雕花	carving; decorative carved pattern; arabesque
雕蟲小技	insignificant talent; skill of no high order; minor accomplishment
雕蟲篆刻	literary trifles; minor skill
雕鐫	to engrave (wood or stone); to carve
雕闌	carved railings
雕飾	to carve; to decorate; carved
雖	although; even though
雖則	nevertheless; although
雖敗猶榮	honorable even in defeat (idiom)
雖是	although; even though; even if
雖死猶榮	lit. although dead, also honored; died a glorious death
雖死猶生	lit. although dead, as if still alive (idiom); still with us in spirit
雖然	although; even though (often used correlatively with 可是[ke3 shi4] or 但是[dan4 shi4] etc)
雖說	though; although
雖遲但到	(slang) slow to arrive but eventually shows up
雗	a white pheasant
雘	red earth used for paints
雙	two; double; pair
雙一流	Double First-Class University Plan, Chinese government project to develop both a group of Chinese universities and a group of subject disciplines to be world-class by 2050, implemented from 2017
雙下巴	double chin
雙主修	(education) double major
雙乳	breasts
雙人	two-person; double; pair
雙人包夾	(sports) double-teaming
雙人床	double bed
雙人房	double room
雙人滑	pair skating
雙人舞	dance for two; pas de deux
雙人間	double room (hotel)
雙休	two-day weekend (abbr. for 雙休日|双休日[shuang1 xiu1 ri4])
雙休日	two-day weekend
雙倍	twofold; double
雙倍體	diploid (doubled chromosomes)
雙側	two-sided; bilateral
雙元音	diphthong
雙光氣	diphosgene
雙凸面	convex on both sides (of lens); biconvex
雙刃	double-edged blade
雙刃劍	double-edged sword (lit. and fig.)
雙北	abbr. for Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4] and New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 Shi4] (Tw)
雙十節	Double Tenth, the anniversary of the Wuchang Uprising 武昌起義|武昌起义[Wu3 chang1 Qi3 yi4] of October 10th, 1911
雙名法	binomial nomenclature (taxonomy)
雙向	bidirectional; two-way; interactive
雙唇音	bilabial consonant (b, p, or m)
雙唑泰栓	metronidazole, clotrimazole and chlorhexidine acetate (as suppository)
雙喜	double happiness
雙喜臨門	two simultaneous happy events in the family
雙城區	Shuangcheng, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
雙城子	Shuangchengzi, former name of Ussuriisk city in Russian Pacific Primorsky region
雙城記	A Tale of Two Cities by Charles Dickens 查爾斯·狄更斯|查尔斯·狄更斯[Cha2 er3 si1 · Di2 geng1 si1]
雙塔區	Shuangta, a district of Chaoyang City 朝陽市|朝阳市[Chao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
雙套	double set; diploid
雙子	Gemini (star sign)
雙子座	Gemini (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
雙子星	(astronomy) binary star
雙子葉	dicotyledon (plant family distinguished by two embryonic leaves, includes daisies, broadleaved trees, herbaceous plants)
雙孢蘑菇	cultivated mushroom; champignon (Agaricus bisporus)
雙學位	dual degree (academic)
雙宿雙飛	lit. to rest and fly together (idiom)
雙射	(math.) bijection
雙層	double tier; double decker
雙層公共汽車	double-decker bus
雙層巴士	double-decker bus
雙層床	bunk beds
雙峰	boobies
雙峰縣	Shuangfeng, a county in Loudi City 婁底市|娄底市[Lou2 di3 Shi4], Hunan
雙峰鎮	Twin Peaks, US television drama series 1990-1991
雙工	(telecommunications) duplex
雙床房	twin room
雙引號	double quotes
雙復磷	obidoxime chloride; toxogonin
雙性戀	bisexual; bisexuality
雙手	both hands
雙打	doubles (in sports)
雙抽	black soy sauce
雙拐	crutches
雙拼	two-item combo (usu. referring to a food dish, esp. two types of meat served with rice or noodles)
雙擁	mutual support between the military and the people – specifically, support provided by local people and authorities for the military, and preferential treatment of the families of soldiers, on the one hand, and the military's support for the government and care for the general public, on the other
雙擊	(computing) to double-click
雙擺	double pendulum (math.)
雙數	even number
雙斑綠柳鶯	(bird species of China) two-barred warbler (Phylloscopus plumbeitarsus)
雙料	(of a product) made with double the usual amount of ingredients or material
雙方	bilateral; both sides; both parties involved
雙方同意	bilateral agreement
雙旦	Christmas and New Year's Day
雙星	double star
雙曲	hyperbola; hyperbolic (function)
雙曲幾何	hyperbolic geometry
雙曲拋物面	(geometry) hyperbolic paraboloid
雙曲拱橋	double arched bridge
雙曲正弦	hyperbolic sine or sinh (math.)
雙曲線	hyperbola
雙曲面	(math.) hyperboloid
雙曲餘割	hyperbolic cosecant, i.e. function cosech(x)
雙曲餘弦	hyperbolic cosine or cosh (math.)
雙月刊	bimonthly publication
雙柏縣	Shuangbai, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
雙核	dual core (computing)
雙極	bipolar
雙槓	parallel bars (gymnastics event)
雙標	double standard (abbr. for 雙重標準|双重标准[shuang1 chong2 biao1 zhun3])
雙橋區	Shuangqiao, a district of Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
雙殼類	(zoology) bivalve
雙氧水	hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) solution
雙氫睪酮	dihydrotestosterone
雙氯滅痛	diclofenac painkiller; also called 扶他林
雙氯芬酸鈉	diclofenac sodium, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug used to reduce swelling and as painkiller
雙氯醇胺	clenbuterol
雙江拉祜族佤族布朗族傣族自治縣	Shuangjiang Lahu, Va, Blang and Dai Autonomous County, in Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
雙流	Shuangliu county in Chengdu 成都[Cheng2 du1], Sichuan
雙流區	Shuangliu, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
雙清區	Shuangqing, a district of Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
雙減	(PRC) Double Reduction Policy, announced in 2021, aiming to ease pressure on K-12 students by reducing homework and banning for-profit after-school academic classes
雙湖縣	Shuanghu, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
雙灤區	Shuangluan, a district of Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
雙牌縣	Shuangpai, a county in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
雙獨	double and single; allowed dispensation to have second child
雙獨夫婦	a married couple allowed dispensation to have second child
雙球菌	diplococcus
雙生	twin (attributive); twins
雙生兄弟	twin brothers
雙百方針	refers to 百花運動|百花运动[Bai3 hua1 Yun4 dong4] with its slogan 百花齊放，百家爭鳴|百花齐放，百家争鸣
雙盲	double-blind (scientific experiment)
雙相障礙	bipolar disorder
雙眸	one's pair of eyes
雙眼	the two eyes
雙眼皮	double eyelid
雙眼視覺	binocular vision
雙瞳剪水	(idiom) clear, bright eyes
雙碳	"double carbon", i.e. peak carbon 碳達峰|碳达峰[tan4 da2 feng1] and carbon neutrality 碳中和[tan4 zhong1 he2]
雙程	return-trip; two-way; bidirectional
雙穩	bistable
雙立人	J. A. Henckels (brand)
雙筒望遠鏡	binoculars
雙管	double-barreled
雙管齊下	lit. to paint holding two brushes (idiom); fig. to work on two tasks at the same time
雙節	combined Mid-Autumn Festival and National Day (occurring when the Mid-Autumn Festival 中秋節|中秋节[Zhong1 qiu1 jie2] falls on October 1st, as in 1982, 2001 and 2020)
雙節棍	nunchaku
雙節棍道	nunchaku martial arts
雙簧	a form of theatrical double act in which one performer speaks or sings while the other, in front, pretends to be doing the speaking or singing
雙簧管	double reed wind instrument (such as oboe or bassoon)
雙糖	disaccharide
雙絞線	twisted pair (cabling)
雙翅目	Diptera (insect order including flies)
雙翼飛機	biplane
雙職工	working couple (husband and wife both employed)
雙肩包	backpack
雙胞胎	twin
雙腳	two legs; both feet
雙腳架	bipod (supporting a machine gun etc)
雙腿	legs; both legs; two legs
雙膝	both knees
雙臂	arms; both arms; two arms
雙臂抱胸	with arms crossed
雙臺子區	Shuangtaizi, a district of Panjin City 盤錦市|盘锦市[Pan2 jin3 Shi4], Liaoning
雙蕊蘭	double-stamen orchid (Diplandrorchis sinica S.C. Chen), an endangered species
雙號	even number (on a ticket, house etc)
雙規	shuanggui, an extralegal system within the CCP for detaining and interrogating cadres who fall from grace
雙親	both parents
雙角犀	two-horned rhinoceros; Dicerorhinini
雙角犀鳥	(bird species of China) great hornbill (Buceros bicornis)
雙語	bilingual
雙誤	double fault (in tennis)
雙贏	profitable to both sides; a win-win situation
雙足	both feet; two-legged
雙軌	double-track; parallel tracks; dual-track (system)
雙輸	lose-lose (situation)
雙辮八色鶇	(bird species of China) eared pitta (Hydrornis phayrei)
雙連接站	dual attachment station
雙週期性	(math.) double periodicity
雙進雙出	to be together constantly (idiom)
雙遼市	Shuangliao, a county-level city in Siping City 四平市[Si4 ping2 Shi4], Jilin
雙邊	bilateral
雙邊貿易	bilateral trade
雙酚A	bisphenol A (BPA)
雙重	double
雙重國籍	dual citizenship
雙重標準	double standard
雙鍵	double bond (chemistry)
雙鏈	double stranded
雙鏈核酸	double-stranded nucleic acid
雙開	to strip sb of their Party membership and government job (開除黨籍|开除党籍[kai1 chu2 dang3 ji2] + 開除公職|开除公职[kai1 chu2 gong1 zhi2])
雙開門	double door
雙關	pun; play on words
雙關語	pun; play on words; a phrase with a double meaning
雙陸棋	backgammon
雙陽區	Shuangyang, a district of Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
雙雙	both; together (used to indicate that two people or things do the same thing simultaneously)
雙非	a couple where both spouses are not Hong Kong citizens
雙面	double-sided; two-faced; double-edged
雙面人	two-faced person
雙面膠	double-sided tape
雙音節	bisyllable
雙飛	flying in pairs; close union as husband and wife; round-trip flight
雙馬尾	(hairstyle) unplaited pigtails; twin ponytails; bunches
雙體船	catamaran
雙髻鯊	hammerhead shark
雙魚	Pisces (star sign)
雙魚座	Pisces (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
雙鴨山市	Shuangyashan, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
雙黃蛋	double-yolk egg
雙龍大裂谷	Shuanglong Rift Valley in Mt Xiong'er National Geological Park 熊耳山[Xiong2 er3 Shan1], Zaozhuang 棗莊|枣庄[Zao3 zhuang1], Shandong
雚	(archaic) stork; heron
雚菌	a type of poisonous fungus that grows on reeds, used in Chinese medicine to help cure patients suffering from ascaris (parasitic worms)
雛	(bound form) chick; young bird
雛兒	newly hatched bird; fig. inexperienced person
雛型	model
雛妓	underage prostitute
雛形	embryonic form; miniature model
雛形土	cambisol (soil taxonomy)
雛形產品	prototype
雛燕	swallow chick
雛菊	daisy
雛菊花環	daisy chain; chain sinnet
雛雞	chick; newly hatched chicken
雛鳳	lit. phoenix in embryo; fig. young talent; budding genius
雛鴿	squab; nestling pigeon
雜	mixed; miscellaneous; various
雜七雜八	an assortment; a bit of everything; lots of different (skills)
雜亂	in a mess; in a jumble; chaotic
雜亂無章	disordered and in a mess (idiom); all mixed up and chaotic
雜事	miscellaneous tasks; various chores
雜交	to hybridize; to crossbreed; promiscuity
雜交植物	hybrid plant
雜交派對	(Tw) sex party; orgy
雜件	miscellaneous goods
雜件兒	miscellaneous goods
雜劇	a Yuan dynasty form of musical comedy
雜劇四大家	Four Great Yuan Dramatists, namely: Guan Hanqing 關漢卿|关汉卿[Guan1 Han4 qing1], Zheng Guangzu 鄭光祖|郑光祖[Zheng4 Guang1 zu3], Ma Zhiyuan 馬致遠|马致远[Ma3 Zhi4 yuan3] and Bai Pu 白樸|白朴[Bai2 Pu3]
雜務	odd jobs; miscellaneous tasks
雜合子	(genetics) heterozygote
雜和麵	corn flour mixed with a little soybean flour
雜噪	a clamor; a din
雜多縣	Zadoi, a county in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 玉樹藏族自治州|玉树藏族自治州[Yu4 shu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
雜婚	mixed marriage
雜家	Miscellaneous School of the Warring States Period (475-221 BC) whose leading advocate was Lü Buwei 呂不韋|吕不韦[Lu:3 Bu4 wei2]
雜居	cohabitation (of different populations or races); to coexist
雜居地區	area of mixed habitation
雜工	unskilled worker
雜店	convenience store; variety store
雜役	odd jobs; part-time worker
雜念	distracting thoughts
雜感	random thoughts (a literary genre)
雜戲	acrobatics; entertainment at folk festival
雜技	acrobatics
雜技演員	acrobat
雜拌	assortment of preserved fruits; (fig.) hodgepodge
雜文	essay
雜沓	small craftsman (contemptuous); clatter (e.g. of footsteps)
雜活	odd jobs
雜流	small craftsman (contemptuous)
雜湊	to put together various bits; to knock sth together; hash (computing)
雜燴	a stew; (fig.) a disparate collection
雜牌	inferior brand; little-known brand
雜牌軍	miscellaneous troops; irregular troops; troops of varied allegiances
雜物	junk; items of no value; various bits and bobs
雜環	heterocyclic (chemistry)
雜碎	offal; cooked minced offal; chop suey (American Chinese dish)
雜稅	miscellaneous duties; various taxes
雜種	hybrid; mixed breed; bastard
雜糅	to blend heterogeneous elements (from different sources, systems, styles or genres)
雜糧	grain crops other than rice and wheat
雜耍	a sideshow; vaudeville; juggling
雜色	varicolored; motley
雜色噪鶥	(bird species of China) variegated laughingthrush (Trochalopteron variegatum)
雜色山雀	(bird species of China) varied tit (Sittiparus varius)
雜草	weeds
雜處	(of disparate elements) to mix in with one another
雜訊	(Tw) (electronics) noise; interference
雜記	various notes or records; a miscellany; scattered jottings
雜誌	magazine
雜誌社	magazine publisher
雜說	scattered essays; various opinions; different manners of speaking
雜談	discussion of various topics
雜谷腦	Zagunao River in Sichuan, tributary of the Min River 岷江[Min2 Jiang1]
雜貨	groceries; miscellaneous goods
雜貨商	grocer
雜貨店	grocery store; emporium
雜貨攤	stall selling various goods
雜費	incidental costs; sundries; extras
雜質	impurity
雜配	to mix; to hybridize
雜錄	literary miscellany; varia
雜集	a miscellany; a potpourri
雜音	noise
雜項	miscellaneous
雜食	omnivorous (zoology); snacks; a varied diet
雜食動物	omnivore
雜鹽	carnallite (hydrated potassium magnesium chloride mineral)
雞	fowl; chicken; (slang) prostitute
雞㙡	Macrolepiota albuminosa, a species of edible mushroom
雞丁	diced chicken meat
雞兒	chick; baby chicken; (vulgar) penis
雞內金	chicken gizzard lining
雞公	(dialect) rooster; cock
雞冠	crest; cockscomb
雞冠區	Jiguan, a district of Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
雞冠花	cockscomb flower; Celosia cristata
雞凍	chicken jelly; (Internet slang) exciting (pun on 激動|激动[ji1 dong4])
雞同鴨講	lit. chicken speaking with duck; fig. talking without communicating
雞塊	chicken nugget; chicken piece
雞姦	sodomy; anal intercourse; buggery
雞娃	(neologism, c. 2020) to arrange an intensive schedule of activities for one's child to maximize achievement
雞婆	(dialect) hen; prostitute
雞子兒	(coll.) hen's egg
雞尾酒	(calque) cocktail
雞尾鋸	keyhole saw; pad saw
雞巴	dick; penis (vulgar)
雞年	Year of the Cock (e.g. 2005)
雞心領	(of clothing) V-neck
雞排	chicken breast; chicken cutlet
雞掰	(Tw) (vulgar) cunt (from Taiwanese 膣屄, Tai-lo pr. [tsi-bai])
雞東縣	Jidong, a county in Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
雞架	(dialect) chicken carcass used for cooking
雞柳	chicken strips; chicken tenders
雞柳條	(Tw) chicken strips
雞母	(dialect) hen
雞母蟲	beetle larva
雞毛	chicken feather; trivial
雞毛店	a simple inn with only chicken feathers to sleep on
雞毛蒜皮	lit. chicken feathers and garlic skins (idiom); fig. trivial (matter)
雞湯	chicken stock; chicken soup
雞澤縣	Jize, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
雞爪	chicken foot
雞犬不寧	lit. not even the chickens and dogs are left undisturbed (idiom)
雞犬不留	(lit.) not even chickens and dogs are spared (idiom)
雞犬升天	(lit.) (when a person attains enlightenment and immortality), even his chickens and dogs will ascend to heaven with him (idiom)
雞珍	chicken gizzard (cuisine)
雞皮疙瘩	goose pimples; goose bumps
雞眼	corn (callus on the foot)
雞窩	chicken coop; (slang) brothel
雞米花	chicken nuggets; popcorn chicken
雞精	chicken bouillon powder (PRC)
雞翅	chicken wing
雞翅木	wenge or wengue (type of wood)
雞肉	chicken meat
雞肋	chicken rib; (fig.) sth of little value yet hard to discard
雞胸	chicken breast; (medicine) pigeon chest (pectus carinatum)
雞胸肉	chicken breast
雞腳	chicken foot
雞腿	chicken leg; drumstick
雞腿菇	shaggy ink cap (edible mushroom); Coprinus comatus
雞舍	chicken coop
雞蛋	(chicken) egg; hen's egg
雞蛋果	passion or egg fruit (Passiflora edulis)
雞蛋殼兒	eggshell
雞蛋清	egg white
雞蛋炒飯	egg fried rice
雞蛋碰石頭	lit. an egg colliding with a rock (idiom)
雞蛋裡挑骨頭	to look for bones in an egg; to find fault; to nitpick (idiom)
雞血石	bloodstone; red-fleck chalcedony; heliotrope (mineralogy)
雞西市	Jixi, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
雞賊	(dialect) stingy; miserly; crafty
雞雞	penis (childish)
雞零狗碎	in pieces
雞霍亂	fowl cholera
雞頭米	Gorgon fruit; Semen euryales (botany)
雞飛狗跳	lit. chickens flying and dogs jumping (idiom); fig. in chaos
雞飛蛋打	the chicken has flown the coop and the eggs are broken
雞鳴狗盜	crowing like a cock and stealing like a dog (idiom); bag of tricks
雞鶩	petty or mean persons
雟	sparrow; revolve; place name
離	to leave; to part from; to be away from
離不開	inseparable; inevitably linked to
離世	(archaic) to live in seclusion; to pass away
離乳	to be weaned; weaning
離亂	social upheaval caused by war or famine etc
離任	to leave office; to leave one's post
離休	to retire under the special retirement system for eligible veteran Communist cadres
離別	to leave (on a long journey); to part from sb
離去	to leave; to exit
離合	clutch (in car gearbox); separation and reunion
離合器	clutch (mechanics)
離合板	clutch pedal
離合詞	separable word (in Chinese grammar)
離型紙	release paper; release liner
離場	to leave the venue; (of an athlete) to leave the field; (of an investor) to exit the market; (of an aircraft) to depart
離境	to leave a country (or place)
離奇	odd; bizarre
離婚	to divorce
離子	ion
離子交換	ion exchange
離子鍵	ionic bond (chemistry)
離宮	detached palace; imperial villa
離家出走	to leave home (to live somewhere else)
離岸	offshore
離岸價	free on board (FOB) (transportation)
離峰	(Tw) off-peak
離島	outlying islands
離島區	Islands District of the New Territories, Hong Kong
離心	to be at odds with; centrifugal (force)
離心分離機	centrifuge
離心力	centrifugal force
離心機	centrifuge
離情別緒	sad feeling at separation (idiom)
離愁	parting sorrow; pain of separation
離散	(of family members) separated from one another; scattered about; dispersed
離散性	discreteness
離散數學	discrete mathematics
離棄	to abandon
離歌	(sad) farewell song
離港	to leave harbor; departure (at airport)
離港大廳	departure lounge
離獨	to be divorced
離異	to divorce
離石區	Lishi, a district of Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
離索	(literary) desolate and lonely
離經叛道	to rebel against orthodoxy; to depart from established practices
離線	(computing) offline
離職	to leave one's job temporarily (e.g. for study)
離苦得樂	to abandon suffering and obtain happiness (Buddhism)
離譜	inappropriate; improper; out of place
離譜兒	erhua form of 離譜|离谱[li2 pu3]
離貳	to defect; to be disloyal
離鄉背井	to leave one's homeplace (to find work, flee disaster etc)
離開	to depart; to leave
離開人世	to die; to leave this world
離間	to drive a wedge between (allies, partners etc)
離隊	to leave one's post
離離光光	lackluster (look)
離題	to digress; to stray from the subject
離騷	On Encountering Sorrow, poem by Qu Yuan 屈原[Qu1 Yuan2] in Songs of Chu 楚辭|楚辞[Chu3 ci2]
難	difficult (to...); problem; difficulty
難上加難	extremely difficult; even more difficult
難上難	extremely difficult; even more difficult
難不倒	not to pose a problem for sb; cannot stump sb
難不成	Is it possible that ... ?
難以	hard to (predict, imagine etc)
難以啟齒	to be too embarrassed to mention sth (idiom)
難以實現	hard to accomplish; difficult to achieve
難以忍受	hard to endure; unbearable
難以應付	hard to deal with; hard to handle
難以捉摸	elusive; hard to pin down; enigmatic
難以撼動	unsusceptible to change; deeply entrenched
難以為繼	(idiom) difficult to carry on; unsustainable
難以理解	hard to understand; incomprehensible
難以置信	(idiom) hard to believe; incredible
難以自已	cannot control oneself (idiom); to be beside oneself
難伺候	(coll.) hard to please; high-maintenance
難住	to baffle; to stump
難保	hard to say; can't guarantee; difficult to protect
難倒	to baffle; to confound; to stump
難兄難弟	(idiom) companions in hardship; fellow sufferers
難免	hard to avoid; difficult to escape from; will inevitably
難分難捨	loath to part (idiom); emotionally close and unwilling to separate
難分難解	to become caught up in an irresolvable situation (idiom)
難受	to feel unwell; to suffer pain; to be difficult to bear
難吃	unpalatable
難喝	unpleasant to drink
難堪	hard to take; embarrassed
難字	character that is difficult to recognize or write
難度	degree of difficulty
難彈	hard to play (of music for stringed instrument)
難得	seldom; rare; hard to come by
難得一見	rarely seen
難忘	unforgettable
難怪	(it's) no wonder (that...); (it's) not surprising (that)
難懂	difficult to understand
難捨難分	loath to part (idiom); emotionally close and unwilling to separate
難捨難離	loath to part (idiom); emotionally close and unwilling to separate
難捱	trying; difficult
難搞	hard to deal with; hard to get along with
難於接近	(of people) difficult to approach; inaccessible
難於登天	harder than climbing to heaven (idiom)
難易	difficulty; degree of difficulty or ease
難民	refugee
難民營	refugee camp
難測	hard to fathom
難為	to bother; to press sb, usu. to do sth; it's a tough job
難為情	embarrassed
難熬	(of pain or hardship) hard to bear
難產	difficult birth; (fig.) difficult to achieve
難當	hard to endure (hot weather, itchiness etc)
難看	ugly; unsightly
難經	Classic on Medical Problems, c. 1st century AD
難纏	(usu. of people) difficult; demanding; troublesome
難聞	unpleasant smell; stink
難聽	unpleasant to hear; coarse; vulgar
難能可貴	rare and precious; valuable; remarkable
難處	trouble; difficulty; problem
難行	hard to pass
難解	hard to solve; hard to dispel; hard to understand
難解難分	hard to untie, hard to separate (idiom); inextricably involved
難言之隱	a hidden trouble hard to mention (idiom)
難記	hard to remember
難說	hard to tell (i.e. hard to judge or hard to predict)
難走	hard to get to; difficult to travel (i.e. the road is bad)
難辭其咎	cannot escape censure (idiom); has to bear the blame
難逃法網	It is hard to escape the dragnet of the law; the long arm of the law
難過	to feel sad; to feel unwell; (of life) to be difficult
難道	don't tell me ...; could it be that...?
難關	difficulty; crisis
難題	difficult problem
難點	difficulty
雨	(literary) to rain; (of rain, snow etc) to fall; to precipitate
雨人	Rain Man
雨傘	umbrella
雨具	rainwear
雨凇	glaze ice; verglas; silver frost
雨刮	windshield wiper
雨刮器	windshield wiper
雨刷	windshield wiper
雨勢	intensity of the rain
雨城區	Yucheng, a district of Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
雨夜	rainy night
雨天	rainy day; rainy weather
雨夾雪	sleet; mixture of snow and rain
雨女無瓜	(neologism) (slang) it's none of your business (imitation of an accented pronunciation of 與你無關|与你无关[yu3 ni3 wu2 guan1])
雨季	rainy season
雨層雲	nimbostratus; stratus rain cloud
雨山區	Yushan, a district of Ma'anshan City 馬鞍山市|马鞍山市[Ma3 an1 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
雨布	rain tarp
雨幕	curtain of rain; downpour
雨後春筍	lit. after rain, the spring bamboo (idiom); fig. rapid new growth
雨披	rain poncho; rain cape
雨搭	awning
雨林	rainforest
雨果	Hugo (name); Victor Hugo (1802-1885), French writer
雨棚	awning
雨水	Yushui or Rain Water, 2nd of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 19th February-5th March
雨湖區	Yuhu, a district of Xiangtan City 湘潭市[Xiang1 tan2 Shi4], Hunan
雨滴	raindrop
雨漏	gargoyle (architecture)
雨澤下注	rainfall
雨燕	swift; Apodidae (the swift family)
雨絲	drizzle; fine rain
雨聲	sound of rain
雨花區	Yuhua, a district of Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
雨花臺區	Yuhuatai, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
雨蛙	rain frog
雨蝕	rain erosion
雨衣	raincoat
雨過天晴	sky clears after rain; new hopes after a disastrous period (idiom)
雨過天青	sky clears after rain; new hopes after a disastrous period (idiom)
雨量	rainfall
雨露	rain and dew; (fig.) favor; grace
雨靴	rain boots; rubber boots
雨鞋	waterproof footwear (rubber boots etc)
雨點	raindrop
雩	summer sacrifice for rain
雪	snow; (literary) to wipe away (a humiliation etc)
雪上加霜	(idiom) to make matters even worse; to add insult to injury
雪中送炭	lit. to send charcoal in snowy weather (idiom)
雪亮	lit. bright as snow; shiny; dazzling
雪人	snowman; yeti
雪仗	snow fight; snowball fight
雪佛萊	Chevrolet, US car make
雪佛蘭	Chevrolet
雪佛龍	Chevron (oil company)
雪佛龍公司	Chevron Corporation
雪佛龍石油公司	Chevron Corporation
雪克	(milk)shake (loanword)
雪利酒	(loanword) sherry
雪原	snowfield
雪地	snow-covered ground
雪地車	snowmobile
雪地靴	ugg boots
雪城	Syracuse, New York
雪夜	snowy night
雪套	gaiters
雪山	snow-capped mountain
雪山太子	Meili Snow Mountains in Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
雪山獅子旗	Snow lion banner, banned flag of Tibetan independence movement, featuring mythological Snow Leopard
雪峰	snowy peak
雪崩	avalanche
雪嶽山	Seoraksan, mountain near Sokcho, South Korea
雪巴人	(Tw) Sherpa
雪恥	to take revenge for a past insult
雪景	snowscape
雪暴	snowstorm; blizzard
雪松	cedar tree; cedarwood
雪板	snowboard; to snowboard
雪條	ice lolly; popsicle
雪梨	Sydney, capital of New South Wales, Australia (Tw)
雪橇	sled; sledge; sleigh
雪橇犬	sled dog
雪櫃	icebox; refrigerator (Hong Kong usage)
雪泥	dirty snow; slush; abbr. for 雪泥鴻爪|雪泥鸿爪[xue3 ni2 hong2 zhao3]
雪泥鴻爪	a goose's footprint in the snow; vestiges of the past (idiom)
雪片	snowflake
雪犁	snowplow; skibob
雪犁運動	(sports) skibobbing
雪球	snowball
雪白	snow white
雪白菇	white beech mushroom (Hypsizygus tessellatus, cultivated white variety)
雪碧	Sprite (soft drink)
雪種	refrigerant
雪糕	ice cream bar; ice cream popsicle
雪糕筒	(Cantonese-influenced Mandarin) (coll.) traffic cone
雪納瑞	schnauzer (dog)
雪紡	(loanword) chiffon
雪線	snow line
雪耳	snow fungus (Tremella fuciformis); white fungus
雪花	snowflake
雪花膏	vanishing cream; cold cream (makeup)
雪茄	(loanword) cigar
雪茄煙	cigar
雪茄頭	cigarette lighter plug (inserted in a car's cigarette lighter socket to draw power)
雪菲爾德	Sheffield (City in England)
雪萊	Shelley; abbr. for 珀西·比希·雪萊|珀西·比希·雪莱[Po4 xi1 · Bi3 xi1 · Xue3 lai2]
雪葩	(loanword) sorbet
雪蓮	snow lotus herb; Saussurea involucrata
雪藏	to keep sth in cold storage
雪蘭莪	Selangor (Malaysia)
雪蟹	snow crab (Chionoecetes opilio)
雪裡蕻	potherb mustard (Brassica juncea var. crispifolia)
雪豹	snow leopard
雪貂	ferret
雪車	vehicle designed for use in snow (sled, sleigh, snowmobile etc)
雪酪	sherbet; sorbet
雪鐵龍	Citroën (French car manufacturer)
雪雁	(bird species of China) snow goose (Anser caerulescens)
雪青	lilac (color)
雪鞋	snowshoes
雪頓節	Lhasa Shoton festival or yogurt banquet, from first of July of Tibetan calendar
雪鴞	(bird species of China) snowy owl (Bubo scandiacus)
雪鴿	(bird species of China) snow pigeon (Columba leuconota)
雪鵐	(bird species of China) snow bunting (Plectrophenax nivalis)
雪鶉	(bird species of China) snow partridge (Lerwa lerwa)
雯	multicolored clouds
雰	misty; foggy
雱	(literary) (of rainfall or snowfall) heavy
雲	surname Yun; short name for Yunnan 雲南|云南[Yun2 nan2]
雲南柳鶯	(bird species of China) Chinese leaf warbler (Phylloscopus yunnanensis)
雲南白斑尾柳鶯	(bird species of China) Davison's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus intensior)
雲南省	Yunnan Province, capital Kunming 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4] (short name 雲|云[Yun2] or 滇[Dian1])
雲吞	wonton
雲和縣	Yunhe, a county in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
雲夢縣	Yunmeng, a county in Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
雲存儲	(computing) cloud storage
雲安區	Yun'an, a district of Yunfu City 雲浮市|云浮市[Yun2 fu2 Shi4], Guangdong
雲室	cloud chamber (physics)
雲層	the clouds; cloud layer; cloud bank
雲山霧罩	(lit.) enveloped in clouds and mist (idiom)
雲岡區	Yungang, a district of Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
雲岡石窟	Yungang Caves at Datong 大同, Shanxi 山西
雲岩區	Yunyan, a district of Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
雲州區	Yunzhou, a district of Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
雲彩	(coll.) cloud
雲散風流	lit. clouds scatter, wind flows (idiom); the crisis settles down
雲朵	a cloud
雲杉	spruce
雲林	Yunlin county in Taiwan
雲林縣	Yunlin county in Taiwan
雲梯	(military) ladder used for scaling the walls of a fortified place (i.e. for escalading) in ancient times
雲母	mica
雲氣	mist
雲沙	muscovite, mica (used in TCM)
雲泥之別	(idiom) a world of difference
雲浮市	Yunfu, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
雲海	sea of clouds
雲消霧散	the clouds melt and the mists disperse (idiom); to clear up
雲液	muscovite, mica (used in TCM)
雲湧	in large numbers; in force; lit. clouds bubbling up
雲溪區	Yunxi, a district of Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
雲煙	mist; clouds; smoke
雲片糕	a kind of cake
雲珠	muscovite, mica (used in TCM)
雲盤	(computing) cloud drive; cloud storage service
雲石	marble
雲石斑鴨	(bird species of China) marbled teal; marbled duck (Marmaronetta angustirostris)
雲窗霧檻	cloud around the window, mist on the threshold (idiom); tall building with the windows in the clouds
雲端	high in the clouds; (computing) the cloud
雲縣	Yun County or Yunxian, a county in Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
雲臺	tripod head
雲芝	turkey tail mushroom (Trametes versicolor)
雲英	muscovite, mica (used in TCM)
雲華	muscovite, mica (used in TCM)
雲裡霧裡	amidst the clouds and mist; (fig.) mystified; puzzled
雲計算	cloud computing
雲豹	clouded leopard (Neofelis nebulosa)
雲貴川	Yunnan, Guizhou and Sichuan
雲貴高原	Yunnan and Guizhou plateau in southwest China, covering east Yunnan, whole of Guizhou, west of Guangxi and southern margins of Sichuan, Hubei and Hunan
雲遊	to wander (typically of an errant priest)
雲陽縣	Yunyang, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
雲隙光	crepuscular rays; sunbeams
雲雀	(bird species of China) Eurasian skylark (Alauda arvensis)
雲集	to gather (in a crowd); to converge; to swarm
雲雨	lit. cloud and rain; fig. sexual intercourse
雲霄	(the) skies
雲霄縣	Yunxiao, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
雲霄飛車	roller coaster
雲霧	clouds and mist
雲霧徑跡	cloud track (trace of ionizing particle in cloud chamber)
雲靄	floating clouds
雲頭	cloud
雲鬢	a woman's beautiful, thick hair
雲龍區	Yunlong, a district of Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
雲龍縣	Yunlong, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
零	zero; nought; zero sign
零下	below zero (esp. temperature)
零亂	in disorder; a complete mess
零件	part; component
零備件	spare part; component
零八憲章	Charter 08, PRC pro-democracy petition of December 2008
零功率堆	zero power reactor
零吃	(coll.) snack food
零和	zero-sum (game, in economics etc)
零和博弈	zero-sum game (economics)
零售	to retail; to sell in small quantities
零售商	retailer; shopkeeper; retail merchant
零售店	shop; retail store
零嘴	nibbles; snacks between meals
零基礎	no prior study (in an area of learning)
零容忍	zero tolerance
零工	temporary job; odd job
零工經濟	gig economy
零度	zero degree
零廢棄	zero waste
零打碎敲	to do things in bits and pieces (idiom); piecemeal work
零擔	less-than-truck-load freight (LTL) (transportation)
零散	scattered
零敲碎打	to do things in bits and pieces (idiom); piecemeal work
零數	the part of a number which is discarded when rounding down
零族	(chemistry) Group 0 (former name for the noble gases, now Group 18)
零日	zero-day (attack, vulnerability etc) (computing)
零日漏洞	zero-day vulnerability (computing)
零星	fragmentary; piecemeal; in bits and pieces; sporadic; scattered
零時	midnight; zero hour
零曲率	(math.) zero curvature
零用	incidental expenses; sundries; pocket money
零用金	petty cash
零用錢	pocket money; allowance; spending money
零的	small change
零碎	scattered and fragmentary; scraps; odds and ends
零碼	(Tw) (fashion retailing) available only in a limited range of less popular sizes
零等待狀態	zero wait state (computing)
零缺點	zero defect; faultless; impeccable
零聲母	(Chinese linguistics) zero initial (the initial of a syllable that does not begin with a consonant)
零花錢	pocket money; allowance
零落	withered and fallen; scattered; sporadic
零號	(slang) bottom (in a homosexual relationship)
零號病人	(epidemiology) patient zero
零買	to buy detail; to buy one at a time
零賣	to retail; to sell individually or in small quantities
零起點	from zero; from scratch; beginners' (course)
零距離	zero distance; face-to-face
零部件	spare part; component
零錢	change (of money); small change; pocket money
零陵區	Lingling, a district of Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
零雜	bit and pieces; small odds and ends
零零星星	odd; piecemeal; fragmentary
零頭	odd; scrap; remainder
零食	snack; nibbles
零點	midnight; to order à la carte; (math.) zero of a function
零點五	0.5; a half
零點定理	Hilbert's zeros theorem (math.); Nullstellensatz
零點能	zero-point energy (quantum mechanical vacuum effect)
雷	thunder; (bound form) (military) mine, as in 地雷[di4 lei2] land mine
雷亞爾	real (Brazilian currency) (loanword)
雷人	(Internet slang) shocking; appalling; terrifying
雷克斯	Rex (name)
雷克斯暴龍	Tyrannosaurus rex
雷克薩斯	Lexus
雷克雅未克	Reykjavik, capital of Iceland
雷克雅維克	Reykjavik, capital of Iceland (Tw)
雷公	Lei Gong or Duke of Thunder, the God of Thunder in Chinese mythology
雷公打豆腐	the God of Thunder strikes bean curd; fig. to bully the weakest person
雷公打豆腐，揀軟的欺	the God of Thunder strikes bean curd, a bully picks the weakest person
雷劇	(slang) poorly made TV drama (featuring absurd plots, terrible acting etc); a cringeworthy show (often so bad it's entertaining)
雷區	minefield (lit. and fig.)
雷厲風行	pass like thunder and move like the wind (idiom); swift and decisive reaction
雷司令	Riesling (grape type)
雷同	mirroring others; identical
雷大雨小	lit. much thunder but little rain; fig. a lot of talk but little action
雷子	(slang) cop
雷射	laser (loanword used in Taiwan); also written 鐳射|镭射
雷射筆	laser pointer (Tw)
雷山縣	Leishan, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
雷峰塔	Leifeng Pagoda, by West Lake until it was destroyed (also from Madam White Snake)
雷州半島	Leizhou Peninsula
雷州市	Leizhou, a county-level city in Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
雷德	Clark T. Randt Jr. (1945-), US ambassador to Beijing 2001-2009
雷恩	Rennes
雷扎耶湖	Lake Urmia, northwest Iran, a major salt lake
雷打不動	not shaken by thunder (idiom); the arrangements are unalterable
雷擊	lightning strike; thunderbolt
雷日納	Regina (name); Regina, city in Brazil
雷暴	thunderstorm
雷曼	Lehman or Leymann (name)
雷曼兄弟	Lehman Brothers, investment bank
雷朗	Luilang, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
雷朗族	Luilang, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
雷根	Taiwan equivalent of 里根[Li3 gen1]
雷波縣	Leibo, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
雷神	god of thunder (Chinese Leigong 雷公[Lei2 gong1], Norse Thor 索爾|索尔[Suo3 er3], Greek Zeus 宙斯[Zhou4 si1] etc)
雷神之錘	Quake (video game series)
雷神公司	Raytheon Company, US defense contractor
雷管	detonator; fuse
雷聲	thunder
雷聲大，雨點小	lit. loud thunder, but only tiny drops of rain (idiom)
雷蒙德	Raymond (name)
雷蓋	reggae (loanword); also written 雷鬼[lei2 gui3]
雷諾	Reynolds (name); Renault (French car company); Reno, Nevada
雷諾數	Reynolds number (ratio of inertial forces to viscous forces in fluid mechanics)
雷諾阿	Pierre-Auguste Renoir (1841–1919), French Impressionist painter
雷轟	sound of thunder
雷達	(loanword) radar
雷達天線	radar antenna
雷鋒	Lei Feng (1940–1962), a soldier celebrated by the Chinese government from 1963 onward as a model of selflessness and devotion to the Communist Party
雷阿爾城	Ciudad Real
雷陣雨	thundershower
雷雕	laser cutting (abbr. for 雷射雕刻[lei2 she4 diao1 ke4])
雷雨	thunderstorm
雷電	thunder and lightning
雷電計	brontometer; apparatus to measure thunder and lightning
雷霆	sound of thunder
雷鬼	(loanword) reggae
雷鳥	capercaillie (Lagopus, several species)
雷鳴	thunder rolls
雷龍	apatosaurus; former name: brontosaurus
雹	hail
雹塊	hailstone
雹子	hail; hailstone
雹暴	hailstorm
雹災	disaster caused by hail
電	lightning; electricity; electric (bound form)
電位	electric potential; voltage
電位器	potentiometer
電位計	potentiometer
電信	telecommunications
電信局	central office; telecommunications office
電信網路	telecommunications network
電信號	electrical signal
電信詐騙	wire fraud
電傳	to send information using electronic means (such as fax, telegram, telex etc)
電價	price of electricity
電光	light produced by electricity; (esp.) lightning flash
電光朝露	flash of lightning, morning dew (idiom); fig. ephemeral; impermanent
電光石火	(idiom) in a flash; fleeting; momentary
電冰櫃	freezer
電冰箱	refrigerator
電刑	to torture sb using electricity; electrocution (capital punishment)
電力	electrical power; electricity
電力機車	electric locomotive
電功率	electric power (measured in watts)
電動	electric-powered; (Tw) video game
電動力學	electrodynamics
電動勢	electromotive force
電動機	electric motor
電動牙刷	electric toothbrush
電動玩具	battery-powered toy; (Tw) video game; computer game
電動葫蘆	electric chain pulley block
電動車	electric vehicle (commonly refers to e-bikes, scooters or electric cars)
電化學	electrochemistry
電化教育	multimedia education; abbr. to 電教|电教
電匯	telegraphic transfer (TT)
電吉他	electric guitar
電吹風	hair dryer
電告	to inform by telegraph, telephone etc
電唁	a telegraph condolence; to send a message of condolence by telegram
電唱	gramophone; record player
電唱機	gramophone; record player
電唱盤	gramophone; record player
電唱頭	pickup (of a record player)
電商	e-commerce (abbr. for 電子商務|电子商务[dian4 zi3 shang1 wu4])
電器	(electrical) appliance; device
電圓鋸	circular saw
電報	telegram; cable; telegraph
電報局	telegraph office
電報機	telegraph
電場	electric field
電塔	electricity pylon; transmission tower
電壓	voltage
電壓表	voltmeter
電壓計	voltmeter
電子	electronic; electron (particle physics)
電子人	cyborg
電子伏	electron volt (unit of energy used in particle physics, approximately 10⁻¹⁹ joules)
電子伏特	electronvolt (eV)
電子信箱	e-mail inbox
電子商務	e-commerce
電子器件	electric equipment
電子學	electronics
電子學系	department of electronics
電子層	electron shell (in the atom)
電子層數	electron shell number (chemistry)
電子工業	electronics industry
電子工程	electronic engineering
電子手帳	electronic organizer; PDA
電子數據交換	electronic exchange of data
電子文件	electronic document
電子書	electronic book; e-book; e-book reader
電子束	beam of electrons
電子業	electronics industry
電子榨菜	(slang) entertaining content such as Internet videos and TV shows that people watch while eating
電子煙	e-cigarette; vape
電子版	electronic edition; digital version
電子狗	radar detector (slang)
電子琴	electronic keyboard (music)
電子環保亭	electrical junk depot, site for reprocessing of old electrical and electronic equipment
電子盤	USB flash drive; thumb drive
電子眼	electronic eye; bionic eye
電子科技大學	University of Electronic Science and Technology of China
電子穩定程序	(automotive) electronic stability program (ESP)
電子空間	cyberspace
電子競技	video gaming (as a sport); e-sports (abbr. to 電競|电竞[dian4 jing4])
電子管	valve (electronics); vacuum tube
電子網絡	electronic network
電子腳鐐	ankle monitor; electronic ankle bracelet
電子舞曲	electronic dance music
電子表格	(computing) spreadsheet
電子計算機	electronic computer
電子詞典	electronic dictionary
電子警察	traffic camera; speed camera; closed-circuit TV police surveillance
電子貨幣	electronic money
電子遊戲	computer and video games
電子郵件	email
電子郵箱	email inbox
電子錶	electric watch; electronic watch; digital watch
電子雲	electron cloud
電子顯微鏡	electron microscope
電學	electrical engineering
電容	capacitance; capacitor
電容器	capacitor
電導	electrical conductance
電導率	electrical conductivity
電導體	conductor of electricity
電工	electrician; electrical engineering; electrical work (in a house)
電廠	electric power plant
電弧	electric arc
電弧焊	electric arc welding
電影	movie; film
電影劇本	screenplay; film script
電影機	movie camera
電影演員	film actor; movie actor; movie actress
電影獎	film award
電影界	moviedom; the world of movies; film circles
電影票	cinema ticket
電影節	film festival
電影製作	filmmaking; film production
電影製片	film production (producing)
電影院	cinema; movie theater
電愛	(slang) to engage in mutual sexual arousal through conversation over the phone; voice-based cybersex
電感	inductance; inductor
電扇	electric fan
電扶梯	escalator
電抗	reactance
電抗器	inductor; reactor (in an electrical circuit)
電控	electric control; electronic control
電擊	electric shock
電擊棒	stun baton
電教	multimedia education (abbr. for 電化教育|电化教育)
電晶體	(Tw) transistor
電暈	corona discharge
電木	bakelite (early plastic); also written 膠木|胶木[jiao1 mu4]
電杆	electric pole; telephone pole
電桿	electric pole; telegraph pole
電梯	elevator; escalator
電梯井	elevator shaft
電棒	(coll.) flashlight; (Tw) stun baton; (Tw) hair iron; hair tongs
電椅	electric chair (used to execute criminals)
電極	electrode
電槍	stun gun; Taser
電機	electrical machinery
電機及電子學工程師聯合會	IEEE; Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers
電死	to electrocute; to die from an electric shock
電氣	electricity; electric; electrical
電氣化	electrification; to convert to electrical power (esp. for railways, factories or other infrastructure)
電氣工程	electrical engineering
電氣石	tourmaline
電池	battery; electric cell
電波	electric wave; alternating current
電泳	electrophoresis
電洞	electron hole (physics)
電流	an electric current; (old) current intensity
電流強度	current intensity
電流表	ammeter
電源	electric power source
電源供應器	power supply unit
電源插座	electric socket; power point
電源線	power cable (of an appliance etc)
電漿	plasma (physics)
電灌站	electric pumping station in irrigation system
電火花	electric spark
電烙鐵	electric iron; electric soldering iron
電焊	electric welding
電照明	electric lighting
電熱	electrical heating
電熱壺	electric kettle
電熱毯	electric blanket
電燈	electric light
電燈泡	light bulb; (slang) unwanted third guest
電爐	electric stove; hot plate
電玩	video game
電珠	light bulb
電瓶	accumulator; battery (for storing electricity)
電瓶車	battery-powered vehicle
電療	electrotherapy
電白區	Dianbai, a district of Maoming City 茂名市[Mao4 ming2 Shi4], Guangdong
電眼	beautiful, expressive eyes
電石	calcium carbide
電磁	electromagnetism
電磁兼容性	electromagnetic compatibility
電磁力	electromagnetic force (physics)
電磁噪聲	electromagnetic noise
電磁場	electromagnetic fields
電磁學	electromagnetism
電磁干擾	electromagnetic interference
電磁感應	electromagnetic induction
電磁振蕩	electromagnetic oscillation
電磁波	electromagnetic wave
電磁爐	induction cooktop
電磁理論	electromagnetism; electromagnetic theory
電磁相互作用	electromagnetic interaction (between particles)
電磁脈衝	electromagnetic pulse (EMP)
電磁鐵	electromagnet
電磨	electric mill (for grinding wheat etc)
電站	power station; power plant
電競	video gaming (as a sport)
電筆	electrician's test light; voltage tester
電筒	flashlight
電箱	circuit box
電紙書	electronic book reader
電網	electricity grid; power grid; electrified wire netting
電線	wire; power cord
電線杆	electric pole; telephone pole; lamppost
電線桿	electric pole; telephone pole; lamppost
電纜	(electric) cable
電纜塔	a pylon (for electric power line)
電纜接頭	cable gland
電纜調制解調器	cable modem
電老虎	electricity hog; electricity guzzler
電能	electrical energy
電腦	computer
電腦斷層掃描	CAT scan; CT scan
電腦病毒	computer virus
電腦繪圖	computer graphics
電腦語言	programming language; computer language
電腦軟件	computer software
電腦輔助工程	computer-aided engineering
電腦輔助設計	computer-aided design
電腦輔助設計與繪圖	computer-aided design and drawing
電臀舞	twerking, sexually provocative dance involving hip movements while in a low, squatting position
電臺	transmitter-receiver; broadcasting station; radio station
電芯	battery cell
電荒	shortage of electricity
電荷	electric charge
電荷耦合	electric charge coupling
電荷耦合器件	charge-coupled device (CCD) (electronics)
電荷量	(physics) charge; quantity of electric charge
電蚊拍	electric mosquito swatter
電蚊香	electric mosquito repellent
電表	power meter; ammeter; amperemeter
電視	television; TV
電視劇	TV series; TV drama
電視台	television station
電視塔	TV tower
電視廣播	television broadcast; telecast; videocast
電視棒	TV streaming stick
電視機	television set
電視秀	TV show
電視節目	television program
電解	electrolysis; electrolytic
電解液	electrolyte solution
電解質	electrolyte
電解電容	electrolytic capacitor
電訊	telecommunications; telecom
電訪	(Tw) to make a telephone call (generally as a representative of a company, school or agency etc, to an individual, often for the purpose of conducting a survey) (abbr. for 電話訪問|电话访问)
電詐	wire fraud (abbr. for 電信詐騙|电信诈骗[dian4 xin4 zha4 pian4])
電話	telephone; phone call; phone number
電話亭	telephone booth
電話信號	telephone signal
電話區碼	area code; telephone dialing code
電話卡	telephone card
電話會	conference call; teleconference
電話會議	conference call; teleconference
電話本	personal address book
電話機	telephone set
電話簿	telephone directory
電話網	telephone network
電話網路	telephone network
電話線	telephone line; telephone wire
電話線路	telephone line
電話鈴聲	(telephone) ring; ringing
電話門	"Phone Gate", corruption scandal unearthed through telephone records
電警棍	stun baton
電貝斯	electric bass (guitar)
電負性	electronegativity
電路	electric circuit
電車	tram; streetcar; trolleybus; electric car
電郵	email; abbr. for 電子郵件|电子邮件[dian4 zi3 you2 jian4]
電郵地址	email address
電量	quantity of electric charge
電量表	charge gauge; battery indicator; power meter
電鈕	push button (electric switch)
電鈴	electric bell
電鋸	electric saw (esp. electric chain saw)
電鋼琴	electric piano; digital piano
電錘	rotary hammer; hammer drill
電鍋	(Tw) electric rice cooker
電鍍	to electroplate
電鍵	electric key; switch
電鏟	power shovel
電鑽	electric drill
電門	electric switch
電閃	lightning flashes
電閘	electric switch; circuit breaker
電阻	electrical resistance; resistor
電阻器	resistor
電雞	(slang) (pejorative) e-bike (from Cantonese)
電離	ion; ionized (e.g. gas)
電離室	ionization chamber
電離層	ionosphere
電離輻射	ionization radiation; nuclear radiation
電震	(HK) electric shock; electroshock
電音	electronic music (genre)
電顫琴	vibraphone (music)
電風扇	electric fan
電飯煲	electric rice cooker
電飯鍋	electric rice cooker
電馬兒	(dialect) electric bicycle
電驛	relay (electronics)
電驢	(slang) electric bicycle or scooter (moped-style)
電驢子	(dialect) motorcycle
電鰩	(zoology) electric ray
電鰻	electric eel
需	to require; to need; to want
需求	requirement; to require; (economics) demand
需求層次理論	(Maslow's) hierarchy of needs (psychology)
需要	to need; to want; to demand; to require; needs
需要是發明之母	Necessity is the mother of invention (European proverb).
霂	used in 霢霂[mai4 mu4]
霄	firmament; heaven
霄漢	the sky; the heavens; (fig.) imperial court
霅	surname Zha
霆	clap of thunder
震	to shake; to vibrate; to jolt
震中	earthquake epicenter
震動	to shake; to vibrate; to strongly affect
震動棒	vibrator (sex toy)
震區	earthquake area
震古爍今	(lit.) to astonish the ancients and dazzle contemporaries (idiom)
震天價響	an earth-shaking noise (idiom)
震天動地	to shake heaven and earth (idiom)
震央	earthquake epicenter (Tw)
震怒	to be furious
震悚	(literary) to tremble with fear; to shock
震情	circumstances of an earthquake
震惶	to terrify
震感	tremors (from an earthquake)
震慄	trembling; to shiver with fear
震懾	to awe; to intimidate
震撼	to shake; to shock; to stun
震撼彈	stun grenade; (Tw) (fig.) sth that produces shockwaves
震撼性	shocking; stunning; sensational
震旦	ancient Indian name for China
震旦紀	Sinian (c. 800-542 million years ago), late phase of pre-Cambrian geological era
震旦鴉雀	(bird species of China) reed parrotbill (Paradoxornis heudei)
震昏	to knock out (of a jolt from an earthquake or crash)
震波	seismic wave
震波圖	seismogram
震源	epicenter (of earthquake); hypocenter
震源機制	(seismology) focal mechanism
震災	disastrous earthquake
震盪	to shake up; to jolt; to vibrate
震眩彈	stun grenade
震級	degree of earthquake (on magnitude scale)
震耳	ear-splitting
震耳欲聾	ear-splitting (idiom); deafening
震聾	to deafen
震蕩	to vibrate; to shake; to shudder
震蛋	love egg (sex toy)
震覺	perception of tremor
震音	(music) tremolo
震響	trembling sound; vibration
震顫	to tremble; to quiver
震顫素	tremorine (drug inducing shivering)
震顫麻痺	palsy; trembling paralysis
震駭	to astonish; to horrify
震驚	to shock; to astonish
震驚中外	to shock the whole world
霈	torrent of rain
霉	mold; mildew; to become moldy
霉氣	a moldy smell; damp and rotten; fig. rotten bad luck
霉爛	mold; rot
霉病	mildew; fungal growth
霉菌	mold
霉菌毒素	mycotoxin
霉變	to become moldy
霉豆腐	fermented tofu
霉運	ill luck; misfortune
霍	(literary) suddenly
霍丘	Huoqiu county in Lu'an 六安[Lu4 an1], Anhui; Huoqiu (place in Anhui)
霍亂	cholera
霍亂弧菌	cholera bacterium (Vibrio cholerae)
霍亂毒素	cholera toxin
霍克松	Hokksund (city in Buskerud, Norway)
霍克海姆	Horkheimer (philosopher)
霍地	suddenly; abruptly
霍城縣	Huocheng, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
霍夫曼	Hofmann or Hoffman (name)
霍尼亞拉	Honiara, capital of Solomon Islands
霍山縣	Huoshan, a county in Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
霍州市	Huozhou, a county-level city in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
霍巴特	Hobart, capital of Tasmania (Australia)
霍布斯	Hobbs (name)
霍德	Ford (name)
霍普金斯大學	Johns Hopkins University
霍林郭勒市	Holingol, a county-level city in Tongliao City 通遼市|通辽市[Tong1 liao2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
霍格沃茨	Hogwarts (Harry Potter)
霍比特人	The Hobbit by J.R.R. Tolkien 托爾金|托尔金
霍氏旋木雀	(bird species of China) Hodgson's treecreeper (Certhia hodgsoni)
霍氏鷹鵑	(bird species of China) Hodgson's hawk-cuckoo (Hierococcyx nisicolor)
霍洛維茨	Horowitz (name)
霍然	suddenly; quickly
霍然而癒	to recover speedily (idiom); to get better quickly
霍爾	Hall (name)
霍爾姆斯	Holmes (name)
霍爾布魯克	Holbrook (name)
霍爾木茲	Hormuz, Iran, at the mouth of the Persian Gulf
霍爾木茲島	Hormuz Island, Iran, at the mouth of the Persian Gulf
霍爾木茲海峽	Strait of Hormuz
霍爾果斯市	Khorgos, a county-level city in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
霍爾滕	Horten (city in Vestfold, Norway)
霍英東	Henry Ying-tung Fok (1913-2006), Hong Kong tycoon with close PRC connections
霍華德	(name) Howard
霍賽	Jose (name)
霍邱縣	Huoqiu, a county in Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
霍金	Hawkins or Hawking
霍金斯	Hawkins (name); also written 霍金
霍霍	(literary) (onom.) sound of sharpening a knife
霍頓	Hotton, Holden, Wharton, Houghton etc (name)
霎	all of a sudden; drizzle
霎時	in a split second
霎時間	in a split second
霎眼	to blink; in an instant; in the twinkle of an eye
霎霎	(onom.) falling rain; chilly air; cold wind
霏	fall of snow
霑	to moisten
霑化區	Zhanhua, a district of Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
霑益區	Zhanyi, a district of Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
霓	secondary rainbow
霓虹	(loanword) neon lights (abbr. for 霓虹燈|霓虹灯[ni2 hong2 deng1])
霓虹國	(slang) Japan (loanword from the Japanese word for Japan, 日本 "Nihon")
霓虹燈	(loanword) neon lights
霓裳	Nichang, abbr. for the Tang Dynasty song "Raiment of Rainbows and Feathers" 霓裳羽衣曲[Ni2 chang2 yu3 yi1 qu1] or 霓裳羽衣舞[Ni2 chang2 yu3 yi1 wu3]
霖	continued rain
霙	sleet; snowflakes
霜	frost; white powder or cream spread over a surface; frosting
霜凍	frost; frost damage (to crop)
霜天	freezing weather; frosty sky
霜害	frostbite; frost damage (to crop)
霜晨	frosty morning
霜條	popsicle
霜淇淋	soft ice-cream
霜災	frost damage (to crop)
霜白	frosty
霜花	frost forming a pattern on a surface; rime
霜降	Shuangjiang or Frost Descends, 18th of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 23rd October-6th November
霜雪	frost and snow; (fig.) snowy white (hair); adversity
霜露	frost and dew; fig. difficult conditions
霝	drops of rain; to fall in drops
霞	rose-tinted sky or clouds at sunrise or sunset
霞光	multicolored sunlight of sunrise or sunset
霞多麗	Chardonnay (grape type)
霞山區	Xiashan, a district of Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
霞徑	a misty path; the path of the Daoist immortals
霞浦縣	Xiapu, a county in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
霞飛	Joseph Joffre (1852-1931), leading French general at the start of World War One
霢	used in 霢霂[mai4 mu4]; Taiwan pr. [mo4]
霢霂	(literary) light rain; drizzle
霣	rain storm; to fall
霤	dripping of rain from eaves
霧	fog; mist
霧件	vaporware
霧凇	rime; hoarfrost
霧化	to make into a fine spray; to atomize; (medicine) nebulizer treatment
霧化器	nebulizer; atomizer
霧化機	nebulizer; atomizer
霧幔	fog; mist
霧氣	fog; mist; vapor
霧濛濛	foggy; misty; hazy
霧炮車	mist cannon truck; dust suppression truck
霧燈	fog lights (of a motor vehicle)
霧罩	fog; mist
霧茫茫	foggy
霧都	nickname for Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
霧里看花	lit. to look at flowers in the fog (idiom); fig. blurred vision
霧鎖	fogbound; enshrouded in mist
霧霾	haze; smog
霧靄	mist
霧面屏	(electronics) matte display screen; anti-glare screen
霨	rising of clouds
霪	heavy rain
霫	Sui-Tang (premodern ethnic group)
霮	denseness of clouds
霰	graupel; snow pellet; soft hail
霰彈槍	shotgun
霰粒腫	(medicine) chalazion
露	to show; to reveal; to betray
露一手	to show off one's abilities; to exhibit one's skills
露出	to expose; to show; also pr. [lou4 chu1]
露出馬腳	to reveal the cloven foot (idiom); to unmask one's true nature
露天	outdoors; al fresco; in the open
露天堆棧	open-air repository; open-air depot
露天大戲院	open-air amphitheater
露宿	to sleep outdoors; to spend the night in the open
露富	to show one's wealth; to let one's wealth show
露底	to let out a secret
露怯	to display one's ignorance
露水	dew; fig. short-lasting; ephemeral
露水夫妻	a couple in a short-lived, improper relationship
露水姻緣	casual romance; short-lived relationship
露營	to camp out; camping
露珠	dewdrop
露白	to reveal one's valuables inadvertently
露相	to show one's true colors
露肩	(of a garment) off-the-shoulder; shoulder-baring
露背	(of a garment) backless; halterneck
露臉	to show one's face; to make one's good name
露臍裝	crop top (clothing)
露臺	balcony; patio; flat roof
露苗	(young sprouts) come out; same as 出苗[chu1 miao2]
露華濃	Revlon (American brand of cosmetics)
露袒	exposed; uncovered; naked
露西	Lucy
露醜	to make a fool of oneself
露陰癖	indecent exposure; flashing
露面	to show one's face; to appear (in public)
露頭	to show one's head; to give a sign to show one's presence
露風	to divulge a secret; to leak
露餡	to leak; to expose (sb's secret); to spill the beans
露馬腳	to reveal the cloven foot (idiom); to unmask one's true nature
露骨	blatant; unsubtle; frank
露體	naked
露點	(coll.) to accidentally or intentionally expose intimate body parts (e.g. nipples or genitals)
露齒	to grin; also pr. [lou4 chi3]
露齒而笑	to grin
霸	hegemon; tyrant; lord
霸主	a powerful chief of the princes of the Spring and Autumn Period (770-476 BC)
霸佔	to occupy by force; to seize; to dominate
霸凌	(loanword) bullying
霸妻	to use one's power and influence to take another man's wife for oneself
霸州市	Bazhou, a county-level city in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
霸座	to willfully occupy sb else's seat
霸業	the task of establishing and maintaining hegemony
霸榜	to dominate a chart; to top a ranking
霸機	(of passengers) to stage a sit-in after the plane has landed (as a protest against bad service etc) (Tw)
霸權	hegemony; supremacy
霸權主義	hegemonism
霸氣	imperious; aggressive; assertive
霸王	hegemon; overlord; despot
霸王別姬	The Conqueror Bids Farewell to His Favorite Concubine (tragic opera by Mei Lanfang 梅蘭芳|梅兰芳[Mei2 Lan2 fang1])
霸王條款	(law) unfair clause; unequal clause
霸王樹	Madagascar palm (Pachypodium lamerei)
霸王硬上弓	to force oneself upon sb (idiom); to rape
霸王鞭	a rattle stick used in folk dancing; rattle stick dance
霸王龍	Tyrannosaurus rex
霸縣	Ba county in Tianjin
霸總	handsome high-powered businessman (abbr. for 霸道總裁|霸道总裁[ba4 dao4 zong3 cai2])
霸道	the Way of the Hegemon; abbr. for 霸王之道; despotic rule
霸道總裁	handsome high-powered businessman (a type of character in an eponymous genre of romantic fiction who typically has a soft spot for a girl of lower social status)
霹	used in 霹靂|霹雳[pi1 li4] and 霹雷[pi1 lei2]
霹雷	thunderbolt
霹靂	thunderclap; (slang) awesome; shocking; terrifying
霹靂舞	to breakdance; breakdancing
霽	sky clearing up
霾	haze
靂	used in 霹靂|霹雳[pi1 li4]
靄	mist; haze; cloudy sky
靄滴	mist droplet
靄靄	luxuriant (growth); numerous; cloudy
靈	quick; alert; efficacious
靈丘縣	Lingqiu, a county in Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
靈丹妙藥	effective cure, miracle medicine (idiom); fig. wonder-cure for all problems
靈位	memorial tablet
靈便	quick; agile; nimble
靈光	divine light (around the Buddha); a halo; a miraculous column of light
靈利	clever; bright; quick-witted
靈動	to be quick-witted
靈台縣	Lingtai, a county in Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
靈命	the will of Heaven; the will of God
靈堂	mourning hall; funeral hall
靈塔	memorial pagoda
靈壽縣	Lingshou, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
靈妙	wonderful; ingenious; clever
靈媒	medium (person believed to communicate with spirits)
靈寶市	Lingbao, county-level city in Sanmenxia 三門峽市|三门峡市[San1 men2 xia2 Shi4], Henan
靈山縣	Lingshan, a county in Qinzhou City 欽州市|钦州市[Qin1 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
靈川縣	Lingchuan, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
靈巧	deft; nimble; ingenious
靈床	bier; bed kept as it was when the deceased was alive
靈快	agile; quick
靈性	spiritual nature; spirituality; intelligence (esp. in animals)
靈怪	a goblin; a spirit
靈恩	Charismatic Christianity
靈恩派	Charismatic Movement
靈感	creative inspiration
靈感觸發圖	mind map
靈敏	smart; clever; sensitive
靈敏度	(level of) sensitivity
靈柩	coffin containing a corpse
靈棺	a bier; a catafalque (memorial platform); a coffin
靈樞經	Lingshu Jing (Divine Pivot, or Spiritual Pivot), ancient Chinese medical text (c. 1st century BC)
靈機	sudden inspiration; bright idea; clever trick
靈機一動	a bright idea suddenly occurs (idiom); to hit upon an inspiration
靈武市	Lingwu, a county-level city in Yinchuan City 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4], Ningxia
靈氣	spiritual influence (of mountains etc); cleverness; ingeniousness
靈氣療法	Reiki (palm healing)
靈泛	nimble; agile
靈活	flexible; nimble; agile
靈活性	flexibility
靈渠	Lingqu, canal in Xing'an county 興安|兴安[Xing1 an1], Guangxi, built in 214 BC to link the Yangtze 長江|长江[Chang2 Jiang1] to the Pearl River 珠江[Zhu1 jiang1]
靈牌	spirit tablet; memorial tablet
靈犀	rhinoceros horn, reputed to confer telepathic powers
靈犀一點通	mental rapport; likeness of mind; spiritual link
靈犀相通	kindred spirits
靈璧縣	Lingbi, a county in Suzhou City 宿州市[Su4 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
靈界	spiritual world
靈異	deity; monster; strange
靈石縣	Lingshi, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
靈符	Daoist talisman
靈芝	lingzhi or reishi mushroom (Ganoderma lucidum)
靈藥	legendary magic potion of immortals; panacea
靈語	tongues (spiritual gift)
靈谷寺	Linggu temple (Nanjing)
靈貓	civet (arboreal cat)
靈貓類	a civet (arboreal cat)
靈車	hearse
靈通	fast and abundant (news); clever; effective
靈醒	(of senses, mind etc) alert; keen; clear-minded
靈長	primate (monkey, hominid etc)
靈長目	primate order (including monkeys, hominids etc)
靈長類	primate (monkey, hominid etc)
靈雀寺	Nyitso Monastery in Dawu County 道孚縣|道孚县[Dao4 fu2 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
靈驗	efficacious; effective; (of a prediction) accurate
靈骨塔	columbarium
靈體	soul
靈魂	soul; spirit
靈魂人物	key figure; the linchpin of sth
靈魂伴侶	soulmate
靈魂出竅	out-of-body experience
靈魂深處	in the depth of one's soul
靉	misty; cloudy sky; dark
靉靆	(literary) heavy (clouds); (literary) eyeglasses
靉靉	misty
靐	thunder
青	short name for Qinghai 青海[Qing1 hai3]
青光眼	glaucoma
青出於藍而勝於藍	lit. the color blue is made out of indigo but is more vivid than indigo (idiom)
青原區	Qingyuan, a district of Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
青史	annal; historical record
青囊	medical practice (Chinese medicine) (old)
青城山	Mount Qingcheng
青堂瓦舍	brick house with a tiled roof
青壯年	the prime of one's life
青天	clear sky; blue sky; upright and honorable (official)
青天大老爺	my lord (respectful form of address for an official or a magistrate in imperial China)
青天白日	(idiom) in broad daylight; in the middle of the day
青天霹靂	(lit.) thunderclap from a clear sky (idiom)
青字頭	Chinese character component 龶, used in 青, 毒, 素 etc
青少年	adolescent; youth; teenager
青山	green hills; (the good) life
青山區	Qingshan, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
青山湖區	Qingshanhu, a district of Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
青山綠水	(lit.) green hills and clear waters (idiom)
青岡縣	Qinggang, a county in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
青島啤酒	Tsingtao Beer
青島市	Qingdao, sub-provincial city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
青川縣	Qingchuan, a county in Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
青州市	Qingzhou, a county-level city in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
青工	young worker (esp of the CCP)
青年	youth; youthful years; young person
青年人	young person; the young
青年團	youth corps; youth wing of a political party
青年旅舍	youth hostel
青年會	YMCA (international Christian youth movement, formed in 1844)
青年期	adolescence
青年節	Youth Day (May 4th), PRC national holiday for young people aged 14 to 28, who get half a day off
青旅	youth hostel; abbr. for 青年旅舍[qing1 nian2 lu:3 she4]
青春	youth; youthfulness
青春不再	lit. one's youth will never return
青春期	puberty; adolescence
青春永駐	to stay young forever
青春痘	acne
青春豆	acne
青木	Aoki (Japanese surname)
青松	pine tree
青果	Chinese olive (Canarium album); green unripe fruit; (Tw) fresh fruits
青梅竹馬	lit. green plums and hobby-horse (idiom)
青棗	blue or green jujube; Chinese green date
青森	Aomori (prefecture and city in Japan)
青椒	Capsicum annuum; green pepper
青椒牛柳	beef with green peppers
青樓	(literary) brothel; pleasure quarters
青檀	blue sandalwood (Pteroceltis tatarinowii Maxim), the bark of which is used to manufacture 宣紙|宣纸
青檀樹	blue sandalwood (Pteroceltis tatarinowii Maxim), the bark of which is used to manufacture 宣紙|宣纸
青檸	lime (fruit)
青檸檬	lime (fruit)
青檸色	lime (color); greenish yellow
青江菜	bok choy; Shanghai pak choy; Chinese mustard (Brassica rapa Chinensis)
青河縣	Qinggil, a county in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
青浦	Qingpu suburban district of Shanghai
青浦區	Qingpu suburban district of Shanghai
青海湖	Qinghai Lake (Tibetan: mtsho-sngon)
青海省	Qinghai Province, capital Xining 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4] (short name 青[Qing1])
青澀	underripe; (fig.) young and inexperienced
青猺	masked palm civet (Paguma larvata)
青瓜	(dialect) cucumber
青瓦臺	the Blue House (or Cheong Wa Dae), formerly the residence of the president of South Korea in Seoul (1948–2022), now a public park
青瓷	celadon (pottery)
青田縣	Qingtian, a county in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
青發	amobarbital (drug) (Tw)
青白	Qingbaijiang district of Chengdu city 成都市[Cheng2 du1 shi4], Sichuan
青白江區	Qingbaijiang, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
青眼	(to look) with a direct gaze; (fig.) respect; favor
青睞	(literary) (lit.) to fix one's gaze on; (fig.) to show interest in; (favorable) attention; favor
青石	bluestone; limestone (colloquial)
青神縣	Qingshen, a county in Meishan City 眉山市[Mei2 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
青秀區	Qingxiu, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
青稞	highland barley (grown in Tibet and Qinghai); qingke barley
青筋	veins; blue veins
青糰	qingtuan, green-colored dumpling originating from Jiangnan, traditionally made with glutinous rice mixed with mugwort and filled with sweet bean paste, usually eaten around Qingming Festival 清明節|清明节[Qing1 ming2 jie2]
青紅幫	traditional secret society, Chinese equivalent of Freemasons
青紅皂白	the rights and wrongs of a matter (idiom)
青紫	purple
青絲	fine black hair; dried plum (sliced, as cake ingredient)
青綠	lush green; dark green; turquoise
青綠山水	blue-and-green landscape (genre of landscape painting originating in the Tang dynasty, in which blues and greens predominate)
青縣	Qing County or Qingxian, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
青羊區	Qingyang, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
青翠	fresh and green; verdant
青腫	bruise
青腳濱鷸	(bird species of China) Temminck's stint (Calidris temminckii)
青腳鷸	(bird species of China) common greenshank (Tringa nebularia)
青色	cyan; blue-green
青芥辣	horseradish; wasabi; green mustard
青花	blue and white (porcelain)
青花椰菜	broccoli
青花瓷	blue and white porcelain
青花菜	broccoli
青苔	moss; lichen
青荇	waterlily; floating heart (Nymphoides peltatum)
青草	grass
青草茶	(Tw) a traditional Taiwanese drink made from cooling medicinal herbs, typically used to relieve internal heat or sore throat, made with ingredients such as mesona 仙草[xian1 cao3], fish mint 魚腥草|鱼腥草[yu2 xing1 cao3], mint and dandelion
青菜	green vegetables; Chinese cabbage
青葙	feather cockscomb (Celosia argentea)
青葙子	feather cockscomb (Celosia argentea)
青蒜	garlic shoots and leaves
青蒿素	Arteannuin (anti-malaria chemical); Artemisinin; Qinghaosu
青蔥	scallion; green onion; verdant
青藏	Qinghai and Tibet
青藏公路	Qinghai-Tibet Highway
青藏線	the Qinghai-Tibet route
青藏鐵路	Qinghai-Tibet railway
青藏鐵路線	Qinghai-Tibet Railway
青藏高原	Qinghai-Tibetan plateau
青蛙	frog (CL:隻|只[zhi1]); (old) (slang) ugly guy
青蝦	oriental river prawn (Macrobrachium nipponense), a species of freshwater shrimp
青衣	black clothes; servant (old)
青豆	green soybean; green peas
青貯	silage; green fodder
青醬	green sauce; pesto (loosely used for sauces made with green herbs)
青釉	celadon, classic Chinese style of ceramic glaze
青金石	lapis lazuli (mineral of the square albite family)
青銅	bronze (alloy of copper 銅|铜 and tin 錫|锡[xi1])
青銅器	bronze implement; refers to ancient bronze artifacts, from c. 2,000 BC
青銅器時代	the Bronze Age; also written 青銅時代|青铜时代[Qing1 tong2 Shi2 dai4]
青銅峽市	Qingtongxia, a county-level city in Wuzhong City 吳忠市|吴忠市[Wu2 zhong1 Shi4], Ningxia
青陽縣	Qingyang, a county in Chizhou City 池州市[Chi2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
青雲	clear sky; fig. high official position; noble
青雲直上	rising straight up in a clear sky (idiom); rapid promotion to a high post
青雲譜區	Qingyunpu, a district of Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
青靛	indigo
青面獠牙	ferocious-looking (idiom)
青頭潛鴨	(bird species of China) Baer's pochard (Aythya baeri)
青頭鸚鵡	(bird species of China) slaty-headed parakeet (Psittacula himalayana)
青馬大橋	Tsing Ma Bridge (to Hong Kong Airport)
青魚	black carp (Mylopharyngodon piceus); herring; mackerel
青鮫	mackerel shark
青黃	greenish yellow; sallow (of complexion)
青黃不接	lit. yellow does not reach green (idiom); the yellow autumn crop does not last until the green spring crop
青黛	indigo (dye); Indigo naturalis extract (used in TCM)
青黴素	(pharmacology) penicillin
青鼬	weasel; Martes flavigula (zoology)
青龍	Azure Dragon, one of the Four Symbols of the Chinese constellations, representing the east and the spring season
青龍滿族自治縣	Qinglong Manchu Autonomous County, in Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
靖	(bound form) peaceful; (bound form) to pacify; to suppress
靖亂	to put down a rebellion
靖國神社	Yasukuni Shrine, Shinto shrine in Tokyo to Japanese war dead, controversial as burial ground of several Class A war criminals
靖宇縣	Jingyu, a county in Baishan City 白山市[Bai2 shan1 Shi4], Jilin
靖安縣	Jing'an, a county in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
靖州苗族侗族自治縣	Jingzhou Miao and Dong Autonomous County, in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
靖江市	Jingjiang, a county-level city in Taizhou City 泰州市[Tai4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
靖西市	Jingxi, a county-level city in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
靖遠縣	Jingyuan, a county in Baiyin City 白銀市|白银市[Bai2 yin2 Shi4], Gansu
靖邊縣	Jingbian, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
靖難之役	war of 1402 between successors of the first Ming Emperor
靚	to make up (one's face); to dress; (of one's dress) beautiful
靚仔	handsome young man
靚女	(chiefly Cantonese) pretty girl
靚妝	(literary) beautiful adornment (of a woman)
靚妹	pretty girl
靚號	desirable number (for one's telephone, license plate etc) (i.e. one that includes memorable or auspicious combinations of digits)
靚麗	beautiful; pretty; Taiwan pr. [jing4li4]
靛	indigo pigment
靛冠噪鶥	(bird species of China) blue-crowned laughingthrush (Pterorhinus courtoisi)
靛油	aniline oil
靛白	indigo white
靛色	indigo (color)
靛花	indigo
靛藍	indigo (dye)
靛藍色	indigo blue
靛青	indigo
靜	still; calm; quiet
靜一靜	to put sth to rest; calm down a bit!
靜修	contemplation; meditation
靜候	to wait quietly; to await (news, a reply etc)
靜力學	statics
靜力平衡	static equilibrium
靜區	silent zone; blind spot; dead space
靜坐	to sit quietly; to meditate; to stage a sit-in
靜坐不動	to sit still and do nothing; to sit tight
靜坐不能	akathisia (condition of restlessness, a side-effect of neuroleptic antipsychotic drug)
靜坐抗議	sit-in protest
靜坐抗議示威	sit-in protest demonstration
靜坐罷工	sit-in strike
靜好	peaceful and harmonious
靜安區	Jing'an district, central Shanghai
靜寂	quiet; silent
靜寧縣	Jingning, a county in Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
靜山	Cheng San (precinct in Ang Mo Kio, Singapore)
靜岡	Shizuoka (prefecture in Japan)
靜待	to wait quietly; to await; to bide one's time
靜心	meditation
靜恬	tranquil
靜悄悄	extremely quiet
靜態	static; sedate; quiet
靜態存儲器	static memory
靜樂縣	Jingle, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
靜止	still; immobile; static
靜止衛星	(astronomy) stationary satellite
靜止軌道	(astronomy) stationary orbit
靜止鋒	stationary front (meteorology)
靜海	Jinghai, a district of Tianjin 天津[Tian1 jin1]
靜物	(painting) still life
靜脈	vein
靜脈吸毒	intravenous drug; IV drug
靜脈曲張	varicose veins
靜脈注入	intravenous (medicine)
靜脈注射	intravenous injection
靜脈點滴	an intravenous drip
靜謐	(literary) quiet; calm; still; tranquil
靜電	static electricity
靜音	quiet; silent; mute
靜養	to convalesce; to recuperate; to fully relax
靜默	silent; still; quiet; to mourn in silence; to observe silence
靜點	a hospital drip
非	to not be; not; wrong; incorrect; non-; un-; in-; de-
非一日之功	lit. cannot be done in one day (idiom)
非主流	alternative; non-mainstream
非人	inhuman; (literary) an unworthy person (to appoint, to marry etc)
非人化	dehumanization
非但	not only
非你莫屬	it's yours exclusively (idiom); you are the one; only you deserve it
非公式	unofficial; informal
非典	atypical pneumonia; Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome; SARS
非典型肺炎	atypical pneumonia; Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome; SARS
非凡	out of the ordinary; unusually (good, talented etc)
非分	improper; presumptuous; assuming
非分之念	improper idea
非分之想	(idiom) a presumptuous desire; an aspiration beyond one's reach
非利士人	the Philistines, who settled on the southern coast of Palestine in the 12th century BC
非利士地	Philistia, aka the Land of the Philistines
非動物性	inanimacy
非同凡響	out of the ordinary
非同尋常	(idiom) extraordinary
非同小可	extremely important; no small matter
非同步	asynchronous
非同步傳輸模式	asynchronous transfer mode (ATM)
非同質化代幣	non-fungible token (NFT)
非命	unnatural death; violent death
非國大	African National Congress, ANC
非國家行為體	non-state actor
非均質	inhomogeneous
非婚生	born out of wedlock; illegitimate
非婚生子女	an illegitimate child
非宗教	secular (society); non-religious (party)
非官方	unofficial
非富即貴	wealthy and respectable people
非寫實	nonrepresentational
非對稱	asymmetric
非導體	nonconductor (of electricity, heat etc)
非小說	non-fiction
非層巖	unstratified rock
非層狀	unstratified
非峰值	off-peak
非常	very; really; unusual; extraordinary
非常多	much; very many
非常感謝	extremely grateful; very thankful
非常手段	an emergency measure
非平衡	non-equilibrium; disequilibrium; unbalance
非平衡態	unbalance; disequilibrium
非得	(followed by a verb phrase, then – optionally – 不可, or 不行 etc) must
非微擾	non-perturbative (physics)
非必要	inessential; unnecessary
非必需	inessential
非拉丁字符	non-Latin characters
非政府	non-governmental
非政府組織	non-governmental organization (NGO)
非數字	non-numeric
非斯	Fes (third largest city of Morocco)
非暴力	nonviolent
非核	non-nuclear
非核化	denuclearization
非核國家	non-nuclear country
非核地帶	nuclear-free zone
非核武器國家	non-nuclear weapon states (NNWS)
非條件反射	unconditioned reflex (physiology)
非槓桿化	deleveraging (i.e. paying off part of a leverage loan)
非標準	nonstandard
非模態	modeless (computing)
非機動車	non-motorized vehicle
非歐幾何	non-Euclidean geometry
非正常	abnormal; irregular
非正式	unofficial; informal
非正數	a nonpositive number (i.e. negative or zero)
非此即彼	either this or that; one or the other
非死不可	Facebook (Internet slang, pun reading "you must die")
非比尋常	extraordinary
非法	illegal
非洲	Africa; abbr. for 阿非利加洲[A1 fei1 li4 jia1 Zhou1]
非洲之角	Horn of Africa
非洲人	African (person)
非洲人國民大會	African National Congress, ANC
非洲單源說	single origin out of Africa (current mainstream theory of human evolution)
非洲大蝸牛	giant African snail (Lissachatina fulica)
非洲大裂谷	East African Rift Valley
非洲界	Afrotropical realm
非洲統一組織	Organization of African Unity
非洲聯盟	African Union
非洲豬瘟	African swine fever
非洲錐蟲病	sleeping sickness; African trypanosomiasis
非洲開發銀行	African Development Bank
非營利	nonprofit; not for profit
非營利組織	nonprofit organization
非物質文化遺產	intangible cultural heritage
非特	not only
非獨	not only; not merely
非獨立	dependent
非異人任	to bear one's own responsibilities and not pass them to others (idiom)
非盟	African Union (AU) (abbr. for 非洲聯盟|非洲联盟[Fei1 zhou1 Lian2 meng2])
非直接	indirect
非相對論性	non-relativistic (physics)
非禮	impolite; impropriety; to sexually harass
非空	(math.) (of a set) non-empty; (computing) (of a data structure) non-empty
非線性	nonlinear (math.)
非線性光學	nonlinear optics (physics)
非羈押性	noncustodial (sentence)
非自然	unnatural; occult
非致命	(of a medical condition) not fatal; not life-threatening
非處	unmarried woman who is not a virgin
非處方藥	over-the-counter drug; OTC drug
非裔	of African descent
非要	to want absolutely; to insist on (doing sth)
非規整	irregular; disordered
非親非故	lit. neither a relative nor a friend (idiom)
非誠勿擾	serious inquiries only
非議	to criticize
非負數	a nonnegative number (i.e. positive or zero)
非賣品	item that is not for sale
非軍事區	demilitarized zone
非遞推	nonrecursive
非遺	intangible cultural heritage (abbr. for 非物質文化遺產|非物质文化遗产[fei1 wu4 zhi4 wen2 hua4 yi2 chan3])
非遺傳多型性	polyphenism
非都會郡	non-metropolitan county (England)
非金屬	nonmetal (chemistry)
非阿貝爾	(math.) non-abelian
非難	reproof; blame
非零	nonzero
非音	(ling) unstressed (syllable)
非預謀	unpremeditated
非驢非馬	neither fish nor fowl; resembling nothing on earth
非高峰	off-peak
非黑即白	black-or-white (e.g. good or bad, with no middle ground)
非黨	non-party
非黨人士	non-party member
靠	to lean against or on; to stand by the side of; to come near to
靠不住	unreliable
靠北	(Tw) (slang) to rattle on; to carp; stop whining!; shut the hell up!; fuck!; damn! (from Taiwanese 哭爸, Tai-lo pr. [khàu-pē], "to cry over one's dad's death")
靠墊	back cushion
靠山	patron; backer; close to a mountain
靠山吃山，靠水吃水	lit. the mountain dweller lives off the mountain, the shore dweller lives off the sea (idiom)
靠岸	(of a boat) to reach the shore; to pull toward shore; close to shore
靠得住	reliable; trustworthy
靠攏	to draw close to
靠窗	by the window (referring to seats on a plane etc)
靠窗座位	window seat
靠背椅	high-back chair
靠腰	(lit.) to cry from hunger (from Taiwanese 哭枵, Tai-lo pr. [khàu-iau])
靠譜	reliable; reasonable; probable
靠走廊	next to the aisle; aisle (seat on aircraft)
靠走道	on the aisle (referring to seats on a plane etc)
靠近	to be close to; to approach; to draw near
靠邊	to keep to the side; to pull over; move aside!
靡	extravagant; go with fashion; not
靡不有初，鮮克有終	almost everything has a start, but not many things have an end (idiom); don't start sth you can't handle
靡有孑遺	all dead and no survivors
靡爛	rotting; decaying
靡費	to waste; to squander
靡靡之音	(idiom) decadent music
面	face; side; surface
面不改色	(idiom) not bat an eyelid
面世	to be published (of art, literary works etc); to come out
面交	to deliver personally; to hand over face-to-face
面值	face value; par value
面兒	cover; outside
面具	mask
面前	in front of; facing; (in the) presence (of)
面友	to put on a friendly face
面向	to face; to turn towards; geared towards; catering for; -oriented
面單	(logistics) shipping label; waybill
面嚮對象語言	object oriented language
面嚮連接	connection-oriented
面型	shape of face
面基	(slang) (of online friends) to meet up in person
面壁	to face the wall; to sit facing the wall in meditation (Buddhism)
面壁思過	to face the wall and ponder about one's misdeeds
面如土色	ashen-faced (idiom)
面如灰土	ashen-faced (idiom)
面子	outer surface; the outside of sth; social prestige; face
面孔	face
面容	appearance; facial features
面對	to face; to confront
面對面	face to face
面巾	face flannel or towel; shroud (over the face of a corpse)
面市	to hit the market (of a new product)
面帶	to wear (on one's face)
面帶愁容	with a sad air; looking melancholy; with a worried look
面帶病容	to look unwell
面形	shape of face
面影	face (esp. remembered); mental image of sb
面心立方最密堆積	face-centered cubic (FCC) (math.)
面惡心善	to have a mean-looking face but a heart of gold (idiom)
面態	facial appearance
面授	to teach face to face; to instruct in person
面授機宜	(idiom) to brief sb in person on the line of action to pursue; to advise face-to-face on how to deal with the present situation
面敘	to talk face-to-face
面料	material for making clothes
面斥	to reproach sb to his face
面晤	to interview; to meet
面有菜色	to look famished
面有難色	to show signs of reluctance or embarrassment
面朝黃土背朝天	face to the ground, back to the sky
面板	panel; faceplate
面無人色	ashen-faced
面熟	to look familiar; familiar-looking
面瓜	(dialect) pumpkin; (fig.) oaf
面生	(of a person) to look unfamiliar
面癱	facial nerve paralysis
面皮	cheek; face; leather covering (for handbags etc)
面皰	acne
面目	appearance; facial features; look
面目一新	complete change (idiom); facelift; We're in a wholly new situation.
面目全非	nothing remains the same (idiom); change beyond recognition
面目可憎	repulsive countenance; disgusting appearance
面相	facial features; appearence; physiognomy
面磚	facing brick; facade tile used to cover exterior walls
面稱	term used to directly address a person (contrasted with 背稱|背称[bei4 cheng1])
面積	area (of a floor, piece of land etc); surface area; tract of land
面簿	(mainly Singapore) Facebook
面紅耳赤	flushed with anger (or excitement)
面紗	veil
面紙	facial tissue; kleenex
面罄	to explain in detail personally
面罩	mask; visor; facepiece (e.g. diving suit, gas mask)
面聖	(old) to have an audience with the emperor
面肥	topdressing (agriculture)
面膜	facial mask; cleanser; face pack
面臨	to face sth; to be confronted with
面臨困難	to be faced with problems
面色	complexion
面色如土	ashen-faced (idiom)
面見	to meet face to face; to meet in person
面試	to be interviewed (as a candidate); interview
面試官	interviewer
面談	face-to-face meeting; an interview
面諛	to praise sb to his face
面諭	to instruct sb personally
面謝	to thank sb personally; to thank sb to his face
面議	to bargain face-to-face; to negotiate directly
面譽	to praise sb in his presence
面貌	face; features; appearance; look
面部	face (body part)
面部表情	facial expression
面鏡	mask (diving)
面霜	facial cream (cosmetics)
面露	to look (tired, pleased etc)
面露不悅	to show unhappiness or displeasure (idiom)
面露倦意	to look tired
面面	multiple viewpoints
面面俱到	(idiom) take care of everything; handle everything
面面相覷	to look at each other in dismay (idiom)
面面觀	(used in titles) comprehensive survey
面頰	cheek
面額	denomination (of currency or bond)
面顏	face
面首	handsome male companion; gigolo
面黃肌瘦	(lit.) face yellow and body emaciated (idiom)
面龐	face
靦	used in 靦覥|䩄觍[mian3 tian3]
靦腆	shy; bashful
靨	dimple
革	animal hide; leather; to reform
革出	to expel; to kick out
革出山門	to excommunicate (from a Buddhist monastery)
革出教門	to excommunicate (from a church)
革吉縣	Gê'gyai, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
革命	to withdraw the mandate of heaven (and transition to a new dynasty) (original meaning)
革命先烈	martyr to the revolution
革命家	a revolutionary
革命性	revolutionary
革命烈士	martyr of the revolution
革囊	leather purse; fig. human body
革履	leather shoes
革故鼎新	to discard the old and introduce the new (idiom); to innovate
革新	to innovate; innovation
革職	to sack; to remove from a position; to depose
革蘭氏	Mr Gram
革蘭氏染色法	Gram stain (used to distinguished two different kinds of bacteria)
革蘭氏陰性	Gram negative (bacteria that do not retain Gram stain, often the more dangerous kind)
革蘭陽	Gram-positive (bacteria)
革蘭陽性	Gram-positive (bacteria)
革製品	leather goods
革退	to dismiss from a post
革除	to eliminate; to expel; to abolish
靪	to cobble; to patch
靮	reins; bridle
靰	used in 靰鞡[wu4 la5]
靲	leather shoes; leather belt; thin bamboo strips
靳	martingale; stingy
靴	boots
靴子	boots
靴子落地	(lit.) the boot hits the floor (idiom)
靴掖子	double layer of padding in a boot
靴籬鶯	(bird species of China) booted warbler (Iduna caligata)
靴褲	boot cut (e.g. of jeans etc)
靴隼鵰	(bird species of China) booted eagle (Hieraaetus pennatus)
靶	target; mark
靶向藥	(medicine) targeted drug
靶場	shooting range; range
靶子	target
靶心	center of target; bull's eye
靶機	target drone
靶紙	target sheet
靶船	target ship
靷	traces (of a carriage)
靸	children's shoe (old); to wear one's shoes babouche style
靺	name of a tribe; socks; stockings
靼	(phonetic); dressed leather
靿	the leg of a boot or sock
靿子	leg (aka shaft) of a boot; leg of a sock
鞁	horse tack (articles of harness such as saddle and bridle)
鞃	a leaning board on carriage
鞄	to work hides; leather bag
鞅	martingale (part of a horse's harness); used in 鞅鞅[yang1 yang1]
鞅掌	(literary) busy (with work etc)
鞅牛	ox harnessed for plowing
鞅鞅	dissatisfied; displeased; aggrieved
鞋	shoe
鞋匠	shoemaker; cobbler
鞋印	shoeprint
鞋墊	insole; shoe insert
鞋套	overshoe; shoe cover
鞋子	shoe
鞋履	footwear
鞋帶	shoelace
鞋幫	uppers of a shoe
鞋底	sole (of a shoe)
鞋拔	shoehorn
鞋拔子	shoehorn
鞋楦	shoe tree
鞋油	shoe polish
鞋碼	shoe size
鞋襪	shoes and socks
鞋跟	heel (of a shoe)
鞌	An, a place in the area of present-day Jinan, Shandong where in 589 BC there was a battle between the states of Qi 齊國|齐国[Qi2 guo2] and Jin 晉國|晋国[Jin4 guo2]
鞍	(bound form) saddle
鞍前馬後	to follow everywhere; to always be there for sb at their beck and call
鞍子	saddle
鞍山市	Anshan, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
鞍韂	a saddle with a saddle blanket
鞍韉	(literary) a saddle with a saddle blanket
鞍馬	pommel horse (gymnastics)
鞍馬勞頓	travel-worn
鞍點	saddle point (math.), a critical point of a function of several variables that is neither a maximum nor a minimum
鞏	(bound form) to fix in place; to make firm and secure
鞏俐	Gong Li (1965–), Chinese actress
鞏固	to consolidate; to strengthen; firm; solid; stable
鞏留縣	Gongliu, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
鞏縣	Gong county in Henan
鞏義市	Gongyi, a county-level city in Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
鞏膜	(anatomy) sclera
鞗	reins of leather
鞘	scabbard; sheath
鞘翅	elytrum (hardened forewing of Coleoptera beetle, encasing the flight wing)
鞘翅目	Coleoptera (insect order including beetles)
鞘脂	sphingolipid
鞙	fine
鞚	(literary) bridle (of a horse)
鞝	patch of leather
鞞	scabbard
鞠	to incline (one's torso); to bow; leather ball used in ancient times
鞠躬	to bow; (literary) to bend down
鞠躬盡瘁	to bend to a task and spare no effort (idiom); striving to the utmost
鞠躬盡瘁，死而後已	to bend to a task and spare no effort unto one's dying day (idiom); striving to the utmost one's whole life
鞡	used in 靰鞡[wu4 la5]; Taiwan pr. [la1]
鞣	suede; chamois; tannin
鞣製	to tan (leather); tanning
鞣質	tannin
鞣酸	tannic acid; tannin
鞥	(literary) reins (for a horse)
鞦	used in 鞦韆|秋千[qiu1 qian1]
鞦韆	swing (seat hung from a frame or branch)
鞧	crupper; leather strap; (dialect) to draw back
鞨	buskin; name of a tribe; turban
鞫	to interrogate; to question; Taiwan pr. [ju2]
鞬	a quiver on a horse; a store
鞭	whip or lash; to flog; to whip
鞭刑	caning (corporal punishment)
鞭子	whip
鞭屍	to flog a corpse
鞭打	to whip; to lash; to flog
鞭撻	to lash; (fig.) to castigate
鞭毛	flagellum
鞭毛綱	flagellate
鞭炮	firecrackers; string of small firecrackers
鞭痕	welt; whip scar; lash mark
鞭笞	to flog; to lash; to whip
鞭策	to spur on; to urge on; to encourage sb (e.g. to make progress)
鞭節	flagellum
鞭蟲	whipworm
鞭長莫及	lit. the whip cannot reach (idiom); beyond one's influence
鞭闢入裡	penetrated; trenchant; incisive
鞮	leather shoes
鞲鞴	piston (loanword from German "Kolben")
鞴	to saddle a horse
鞶	large belt
鞹	leather
鞽	the pommel and cantle of a saddle
鞿	(literary) bit (of a horse's bridle)
韁	bridle; reins; halter
韁繩	reins
韂	(bound form) saddle blanket
韃	Tartar; a tribe in China
韃虜	Tartar (derogatory)
韃靼	Tartar (various northern tribes in ancient China)
韃靼人	Tatar (person)
韃靼海峽	Strait of Tartary between Sakhalin and Russian mainland
韅	leather girth on horse
韆	used in 鞦韆|秋千[qiu1 qian1]
韉	(bound form) saddle blanket
韋	soft leather
韋伯	weber (unit of magnetic flux, Wb)
韋利	Waley or Whaley (name)
韋德	Wade (name)
韋慕庭	Clarence Martin Wilbur (1908-1997), US Sinologist and Professor of Columbia University
韋應物	Wei Yingwu (c. 737 – c. 792), Tang dynasty poet
韋斯卡	Uesca or Huesca, Spain
韋格納	Alfred Wegener (1880-1930), German meteorologist and geophysicist, the originator of the theory of continental drift
韋氏拼法	Wade-Giles system (romanization of Chinese)
韋氏鶲鶯	(bird species of China) Whistler's warbler (Phylloscopus whistleri)
韋爾弗雷茲	(George) Wehrfritz (Beijing bureau chief of Newsweek)
韋爾瓦	Huelva, Spain
韋瓦第	Vivaldi (name); Antonio Vivaldi (1675-1741), Italian composer
韋科	Waco
韋編三絕	lit. the leather binding (of the bamboo scroll) has broken three times
韋達	François Viète (1540-1603), French mathematician, father of modern algebraic notation
韋馱菩薩	Skanda, the general or guardian Bodhisattva
韌	annealed; pliable but strong; tough
韌勁	tenacity
韌帶	ligament
韌性	toughness
韌皮	(botany) bast; phloem
韌皮部	phloem
韌體	firmware
韍	kneepad
韎	a grass that gives red dye
韓	Han, one of the Seven Hero States of the Warring States 戰國七雄|战国七雄
韓世昌	Han Shichang (1897-1977), actor specializing in Kunqu opera 崑曲|昆曲[Kun1 qu3]
韓亞航空	Asiana Airlines, South Korean airline
韓亞龍	H Mart, Korean supermarket chain in US and Canada
韓信	Han Xin (-196 BC), famous general of first Han emperor Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1]
韓元	won (currency of South Korea)
韓半島	Korean peninsula (esp. South Korean usage)
韓國	South Korea (Republic of Korea)
韓國人	Korean (person)
韓國泡菜	kimchi
韓國瑜	Daniel Han Kuo-yu (1957-), Taiwanese KMT politician, mayor of Kaohsiung since 2018
韓國聯合通訊社	Yonghap (South Korean news agency)
韓國街	Koreatown
韓國語	Korean language
韓國銀行	Bank of Korea
韓城市	Hancheng, a county-level and sub-prefectural city of historic significance in Weinan 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
韓媒	South Korean news media
韓寒	Han Han (1982-), PRC blogger, singer and professional rally driver
韓山師範學院	Hanshan Normal University, Shantou, Guangdong
韓式	Korean-style
韓式泡菜	kimchi
韓彥直	Han Yanzhi (1131-?), Song dynasty botanist, author of classification of orange trees 橘錄|橘录[ju2 lu4]
韓復榘	Han Fuju (1890–1938), Nationalist Kuomintang (KMT) army general and governor of Shandong, executed by Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石[Jiang3 Jie4 shi2] after he abandoned Jinan to the Japanese
韓德爾	(Tw) Handel (name)
韓愈	Han Yu (768-824), Tang dynasty essayist and poet, advocate of the classical writing 古文運動|古文运动[gu3 wen2 yun4 dong4] and neoclassical 復古|复古[fu4 gu3] movements
韓愛晶	Han Aijing (1945-), notorious red guard leader during Cultural Revolution, spent 15 years in prison for imprisoning and torturing political leaders
韓戰	Korean War (1950-1953)
韓文	hangul, Korean phonetic alphabet; Korean written language
韓文字母	hangul, Korean phonetic alphabet; Korean letters
韓方	the Korean side
韓日	Korea and Japan
韓昇洙	Han Seung-soo (1936-), South Korean diplomat and politician, prime minister 2008-2009
韓服	hanbok (traditional Korean clothing)
韓朝	North and South Korea; bilateral Korean relations
韓棒子	Korean (derog.)
韓正	Han Zheng (1954-), senior vice premier of the PRC (2018-)
韓江	the Han river in Guangdong
韓流	Korean Wave, aka Hallyu (the increase in international interest in South Korea and its popular culture since the 1990s)
韓澳	South Korea and Australia
韓素音	Han Suyin (1917-2012), Eurasian physician and author
韓美	South Korean-US
韓聯社	Yonhap (South Korean news agency)
韓語	Korean language (esp. in context of South Korea)
韓邦慶	Han Bangqing (1856-1894), writer and publisher of experimental literary journal in Classical Chinese and Jiangsu vernacular, author of novel 海上花列傳|海上花列传
韓非	Han Fei, also known as Han Feizi 韓非子|韩非子[Han2 Fei1 zi3] (c. 280-233 BC), Legalist philosopher of the Warring States Period (475-220 BC)
韓非子	another name for Han Fei 韓非|韩非[Han2 Fei1], Legalist philosopher (c. 280-233 BC)
韔	bow bag
韖	tan, soften
韘	archer's thumb ring
韙	correct; right
韛	bellows (for blowing air into a fire)
韜	bow case or scabbard; to hide; military strategy
韜光養晦	to conceal one's strengths and bide one's time (idiom)
韜略	military strategy; military tactics
韝	archer's arm guard
韞	contain
韡	gorgeous
韣	bow case
韭	leek
韭菜	garlic chives (Allium tuberosum), aka Chinese chives
韭菜盒子	chive pocket, savory pan-fried turnover stuffed with garlic chives and other ingredients (usually contains scrambled eggs)
韭菜花	chive flowers
韭黃	yellow chives (Chinese chives grown without sunlight, resulting in white stems and yellow leaves)
韱	wild onions or leeks
音	sound; noise; note (of musical scale)
音位	phoneme
音信	message
音值	phonetic value
音像	audio and video; audiovisual
音叉	tuning fork
音名	names of the notes of a musical scale (e.g. C, D, E or do, re, mi)
音圈	(electronics) voice coil
音域	vocal range; register (music)
音容	voice and features; (sb's) appearance
音帶	audio tape
音律	tuning; temperament; music
音意合譯	formation of a loanword using some characters (or words) chosen for their meaning and others for phonetic transcription (e.g. 冰淇淋[bing1 qi2 lin2], 朗姆酒[lang3 mu3 jiu3], 奶昔[nai3 xi1] and 米老鼠[Mi3 Lao3 shu3])
音效	sound effect
音栓	(music) organ stop
音樂	music
音樂之聲	The Sound of Music, Broadway musical (1959) and Academy Award-winning movie (1965)
音樂光碟	music CD
音樂劇	(theater, cinema) a musical
音樂學	musicology
音樂學院	music academy; conservatory
音樂家	musician
音樂廳	concert hall; auditorium
音樂會	concert
音樂盒	music box
音樂節	music festival
音樂電視	Music Television MTV
音標	phonetic symbol
音步	foot (syllabic unit in verse); meter; scansion
音波	sound wave
音爆	sonic boom
音痴	tone deaf
音程	interval (music)
音符	(music) note; phonetic component of a Chinese character
音管	pipe (of an organ)
音箱	loudspeaker box; speaker (audio equipment)
音節	syllable
音節體	syllabic script
音系學	phonology
音級	a note on a musical scale
音素	phoneme
音義	sound and meaning
音耗	message
音色	tone; timbre; sound color
音視	sound and video
音視頻	sound and video
音訊	letters; mail; news
音調	pitch of voice (high or low); pitch (of a musical note); tone
音譯	transliteration (rendering phonetic value, e.g. of English words in Chinese characters)
音讀	reading or phonetic value of a character
音變	phonetic change
音質	tone; sound quality; timbre
音軌	sound track; track number (e.g. on a CD)
音速	speed of sound
音量	loudness; volume
音長	sound duration; length of a musical note
音階	musical scale
音集協	China Audio-Video Copyright Association (CAVCA)
音韻	music; rhyme and rhythm
音韻學	Chinese phonetics (concerned also with rhyme in poetry)
音響	sound; acoustics; audio
音響效果	sound effects
音響組合	stereo system
音響設備	sound equipment; stereo
音頻	audio; sound; audio frequency
音頻文件	audio file (computer)
音頻設備	audio equipment
音高	pitch (music); tone
韶	(literary) splendid; glorious
韶山市	Shaoshan, a county-level city in Xiangtan City 湘潭市[Xiang1 tan2 Shi4], Hunan
韶華	(literary) prime years; youthful years
韶關市	Shaoguan, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
韹	music of bell and drum
韺	music of legendary emperor Gu
韻	the final (of a syllable) (Chinese phonology); rhyme; appeal
韻事	poetic occasion; elegant situation; in literature, the cue for a poem
韻人韻事	a charming man enjoys charming pursuits (idiom)
韻味	implicit charm in rhyme or sound; hinted appeal; interest
韻尾	(phonology) coda, the part of a syllable that follows its vocalic nucleus (e.g. "u" in kòu or "n" in běn)
韻律	cadence; rhythm; rhyme scheme
韻文	verse (as opposed to prose 散文[san3 wen2])
韻書	rime dictionary (ancient type of Chinese dictionary that collates characters by tone and rhyme rather than by radical)
韻母	the final of a Chinese syllable (the component of a syllable remaining after removal of the initial consonant, if any, and the tone, e.g. the final of "niáng" is "iang")
韻白	form of rhymed baihua 白話|白话[bai2 hua4] in Beijing opera
韻目	rhyme entry
韻緻	grace; natural charm
韻腳	rhyming word ending a line of verse; rhyme
韻腹	main vowel in diphthong
韻致	grace; natural charm
韻詩	rhyming verse
韻語	rhymed language
韻調	rhyme and tone; intonation
韻頭	leading vowel of diphthong
響	echo; sound; noise
響亮	loud and clear; resounding
響動	sound coming from sth (typically sth not immediately visible)
響叮噹	to tinkle; to jingle; to clank
響器	percussion instrument
響噹噹	resounding; loud; well known
響尾蛇	rattlesnake
響屁	loud fart
響度	loudness; volume
響徹	to resound; to resonate
響應	to respond to; answer
響應時間	response time
響應號召	to answer a call to action
響板	castanets (music)
響水縣	Xiangshui, a county in Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
響箭	whistling arrow (used in ancient times as a signal)
響聲	noise
響起	(of a sound) to come forth; (of a sound source) to ring out; to sound
響遍	to resound (all over the place)
響鈴	(of a bell, alarm, or phone) to ring
響雷	to be thundering; thunder clap
響音	sonorant
響頭	to bump one's head; to kowtow with head-banging on the ground
頀	music
頁	page; leaf
頁岩	shale
頁岩氣	shale gas
頁岩油	shale oil
頁底	the bottom of the page
頁心	type page
頁框	frame (computing)
頁碼	page number
頁籤	(computing) tab (GUI element)
頁蒿	caraway
頁邊	(page) margin
頁面	page; web page
頁首	the top of the page; (word processing) page header
頂	apex; crown of the head; top
頂上	on top of; at the summit
頂事	useful; fitting
頂住	to withstand; to stand up to
頂冒	abbr. for 頂名冒姓|顶名冒姓[ding3 ming2 mao4 xing4]
頂刊	top-tier academic journal (abbr. for 頂級期刊|顶级期刊[ding3 ji2 qi1 kan1])
頂包	to serve as forced labor; to take the rap for sb
頂名冒姓	to pretend to be sb else
頂呱呱	excellent; first-rate; top-notch; superb
頂嘴	to talk back; to answer back
頂多	at most; at best
頂天	to reach the upper limit
頂天立地	lit. able to support both heaven and earth
頂夸克	top quark (particle physics)
頂尖	peak; apex; world best
頂尖級	first class; top; world best
頂層	top floor; the top of a building
頂峰	peak; summit; fig. high point
頂崗	to replace sb on a workshift; to substitute for
頂戴	cap badge (official sign of rank in Qing dynasty)
頂手	to take over (a lease, shop or business from the previous tenant) (originally Cantonese)
頂手費	key money; takeover fee paid to a previous tenant when assuming their lease or business (originally Cantonese)
頂拜	to prostrate oneself
頂撞	to contradict (elders or superiors)
頂擋	to resist; to obstruct; to bear responsibility for
頂替	to replace
頂會	top-tier academic conference (abbr. for 頂級會議|顶级会议[ding3 ji2 hui4 yi4])
頂板	roof; roof plate; rock layer forming roof of a cave or mine
頂格	(typesetting) to not indent; to set text flush with the left (or top) margin
頂桿	top bar; crown bar
頂梁柱	pillar; backbone
頂棒	bucking bar (metal bar fixing the tail of a rivet as it is driven)
頂棚	ceiling; awning (under ceiling)
頂樓	top floor; attic; loft
頂流	(slang) top-tier celebrity or influencer (abbr. for 頂級流量|顶级流量[ding3 ji2 liu2 liang4])
頂港	(Tw) northern Taiwan (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [tíng-káng])
頂港有名聲，下港上出名	(Tw) (saying) famous far and wide (from Taiwanese Hokkien)
頂燈	dome light (of a taxi etc); ceiling light (in a room)
頂牛兒	to push with the forehead; to lock horns; to be at loggerheads
頂班	to take over sb else's job; to substitute for
頂用	to be of use
頂盤	to buy a struggling business and keep it going; to take over a business
頂目	item; event; project
頂禮膜拜	to prostrate oneself in worship (idiom); (fig.) to worship
頂端	summit; peak
頂端優勢	(botany) apical dominance
頂級	top-notch; first-rate
頂缸	to take the blame; to be a scapegoat; to carry the can
頂罪	to take the blame for sb else; to compensate for one's crime
頂芽	terminal bud (growing at the tip of a plant)
頂葉	parietal lobe
頂蓋	roof; lid
頂補	to fill a vacancy; to substitute for
頂角	angle at apex; summit angle; cusp
頂謝	to bow in thanks
頂讓	(Tw) to hand over (a business etc) for an agreed price
頂輪	sahasrāra or sahasrara, the crown or fontanel chakra 查克拉, residing at the top of the skull
頂部	roof; topmost part; top (of tree, wall etc)
頂配	highest level of specification (for a product)
頂針	thimble
頂門壯戶	to support the family business (idiom)
頂閥	top valve; head valve
頂面	top; top side; top surface
頂頭	to come directly towards one; top; immediate (superior)
頂頭上司	one's immediate superior
頂風	to face into the wind; against the wind; fig. against the law
頂骨	parietal bone
頂點	summit; peak; (math.) vertex
頃	unit of area equal to 100 畝|亩[mu3] or 6.67 hectares; a short while
頃久	an instant or an eternity
頃之	in a moment; shortly after
頃刻	instantly; in no time
頃刻間	in an instant
頃者	just now; a short while ago
頄	cheekbone
項	back of neck; item; thing
項上人頭	head; neck (as in "to save one's neck", i.e. one's life)
項圈	necklace
項城市	Xiangcheng, a county-level city in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
項目	item; project; (sports) event
項目管理	project management
項羽	Xiang Yu the Conqueror (232-202 BC), warlord defeated by first Han emperor
項英	Xiang Ying (1898-1941), communist general involved in forming the New Fourth Army 新四軍|新四军[Xin1 si4 jun1], killed in 1941 during the New Fourth Army incident 皖南事變|皖南事变[Wan3 nan2 Shi4 bian4]
項莊舞劍	lit. Xiang Zhuang performs the sword dance, but his mind is set on Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1] (idiom, refers to plot to kill Liu Bang during the Hongmen feast 鴻門宴|鸿门宴[Hong2 men2 yan4] in 206 BC)
項莊舞劍，意在沛公	lit. Xiang Zhuang performs the sword dance, but his mind is set on Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1] (idiom); refers to 206 BC plot to murder Liu Bang, aka Duke of Pei 沛公[Pei4 gong1] and the future Han emperor, during a sword dance at the Hongmen feast 鴻門宴|鸿门宴[Hong2 men2 yan4]
項鏈	necklace
項頸	back of neck
順	to obey; to follow; to arrange
順位	rank; place; position
順便	conveniently; in passing; without much extra effort
順其自然	to let nature take its course (idiom)
順利	smoothly; without a hitch
順勢	to take advantage; to seize an opportunity; in passing
順勢療法	homeopathy (alternative medicine)
順化	Hue, city in central Vietnam and capital of Thua Thien province
順口	to read smoothly (of text); to blurt out (without thinking)
順口溜	popular piece of doggerel; common phrase repeated as a jingle
順和	gentle; affable
順嘴	to read smoothly (of text); to blurt out (without thinking)
順嘴兒	to read smoothly (of text); to blurt out (without thinking)
順坦	smoothly; as one expects
順城區	Shuncheng, a district of Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
順境	favorable circumstances
順子	a straight (poker, mahjong)
順導	to guide sth on its proper course; to guide towards profitable outcome
順山倒	Timber! (lumberjack's warning call)
順差	(trade or budget) surplus
順帶	(do sth) in passing; incidentally (while doing sth else)
順帶一提	by the way
順平縣	Shunping, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
順序	sequence; order
順序數	ordinal number
順延	to be postponed accordingly (e.g. due to weather or other stated factors)
順式	cis- (isomer) (chemistry)
順從	obedient; to comply; to submit
順德區	Shunde, a district of Foshan City 佛山市[Fo2 shan1 Shi4], Guangdong
順心	happy; satisfactory
順性別	cisgender
順意	pleasant; agreeable
順慶區	Shunqing, a district of Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
順應	to comply with; to conform to; to adapt to; to go along with; in tune with
順應不良	inability to adjust; unable to adapt
順應天時	going with nature and the seasons (TCM)
順我者昌逆我者亡	submit to me and prosper, or oppose me and perish
順手	as an incidental action while doing sth else; while one is at it; in passing
順手兒	handy; convenient and easy to use; smoothly
順手牽羊	lit. to lead away a goat while passing by (idiom)
順拐	to swing the arm and leg on the same side of the body together while walking
順敘	chronological narration
順斜	(geology) cataclinal
順昌縣	Shunchang, a county in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
順時針	clockwise
順暢	smooth and unhindered; fluent
順服	to submit to
順次	in order; in proper sequence
順民	docile subject (of new dynasty); toady
順氣	nice; pleasant
順水	with the current
順水人情	to do sb a favor at little cost
順水推舟	lit. to push the boat with the current
順水推船	lit. to push the boat with the current
順河區	Shunhe Hui district of Kaifeng city 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 shi4], Henan
順河回族區	Shunhe Hui District, a district of Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
順治	reign name of second Qing emperor (1644-1662)
順治帝	Fulin Emperor Shunzhi (1638-1662), second Qing emperor, reigned 1644-1662
順溜	orderly; tidy; smooth
順滑	smooth
順潮	favorable tide
順理成章	logical; only to be expected
順產	to give birth without complications; easy childbirth; safe delivery
順當	smoothly
順眼	pleasing to the eye; nice to look at
順磁	paramagnetic
順稿	to edit a text for readability
順義區	Shunyi, a district of Beijing
順耳	pleasing to the ear
順著	to follow; following; along
順藤摸瓜	lit. to follow the vine to get to the melon
順行	circular motion in the same sense as the sun; clockwise
順訪	to visit in passing
順路	by the way; while out doing sth else; conveniently
順遂	everything is going smoothly; just as one wishes
順道	on the way
順適	agreeable; to conform
順風	lit. tail wind; Bon voyage!
順風耳	sb with preternaturally good hearing (in fiction)
順風車	vehicle that gives one a free ride
順風轉舵	to act according to whatever is the current outlook; pragmatic
順風順水	(idiom) to go smoothly; to be smooth sailing
頇	dawdling
須	must; to have to; to wait
須丸	hematite Fe2O3
須彌	Mt Meru or Sumeru, sacred mountain in Buddhist and Jain tradition
須彌山	Mt Meru or Sumeru, sacred mountain in Buddhist and Jain tradition
須知	key information; instructions; it must be borne in mind
須臾	in a flash; in a jiffy
須要	must; have to
頊	used in 顓頊|颛顼[Zhuan1 xu1]; used in 頊頊|顼顼[xu1 xu1]; Taiwan pr. [xu4]
頊頊	frustrated; disappointed
頌	ode; eulogy; to praise in writing
頌揚	to eulogize; to praise
頌歌	carol
頌聲載道	lit. praise fills the roads (idiom); praise everywhere
頌詞	commendation speech; eulogy; ode
頌贊	to praise
頍	raise one's head
頎	tall
頏	fly down
預	to advance; in advance; beforehand
預付	to pay in advance; prepaid
預付卡	prepaid card
預估	to estimate; to forecast; prediction
預備	to prepare; to make ready; preparation
預備役	reserve duty; reserve service; military reserve
預兆	omen; sign (of sth yet to occur); prior indication
預先	beforehand; in advance
預判	to predict; to anticipate
預卜	to foretell; to predict
預印	to preprint
預印本	a preprint
預告	to forecast; to predict; advance notice
預告片	trailer (for a movie)
預售	to sell in advance
預報	forecast
預定	to arrange in advance
預定義	predefined
預審	preliminary hearing; interrogation (of a suspect)
預後	prognosis
預想	to anticipate; to expect
預感	to have a premonition; premonition
預應力	prestressed
預扣	to withhold
預提	to withhold (tax); withholding
預提費用	(accounting) accrued expense
預支	to pay in advance; to get payment in advance
預收費	prepayment
預料	to forecast; to anticipate; expectation
預期	to expect; to anticipate
預期推理	predictive inference
預期用途	intended use
預案	contingency plan
預浸料	pre-preg (a type of composite material)
預測	to forecast; to predict
預演	dummy run; to run through sth; to rehearse
預熱	to preheat; (fig.) to warm up; to prepare for
預產期	expected date of childbirth; estimated due date (EDD)
預留	to set aside; to reserve
預知	to anticipate; to foresee
預示	to indicate; to foretell; to forebode
預祝	to wish sb (success, bon voyage etc)
預科	preparatory course (in college)
預算	budget
預約	booking; reservation; to book
預習	to prepare a lesson
預處理	to preprocess
預裝	prefabricated; preinstalled; bundled (software)
預製	prefabricated; precut; to prefabricate
預製菜	ready-made meal
預見	to foresee; to predict; to forecast
預覽	preview; to preview
預言	to predict; prophecy
預言家	prophet
預訂	to place an order; to book ahead
預計	to forecast; to predict; to estimate
預託證券	depository receipt (DR, in share dealing)
預設	to presuppose; to predispose; to preset
預試	pretest
預謀	premeditated; to plan sth in advance (esp. a crime)
預謀殺人	premeditated murder
預警	warning; early warning
預警機	early warning aircraft system, e.g. US AWACS
預警系統	early warning system
預購	advance purchase
預賽	preliminary competition; to hold preliminary heats
預選	preselection; short-listing; primary election
預配	pre-allocated; prewired
預防	to prevent; to take precautions against; to protect
預防免疫	prophylactic inoculation
預防性	prophylactic; preventative; protective
預防接種	prophylactic inoculation
預防措施	protective step; protective measure
預防法	prophylaxis; medical prevention
預防針	immunization injection; fig. forewarning; heads-up
頑	mischievous; obstinate; to play
頑劣	stubborn and obstreperous; naughty and mischievous
頑匪	gangster; bandit
頑固	stubborn; obstinate
頑強	tenacious; hard to defeat
頑梗	obstinate; stubborn; pig-headed
頑民	unruly people; rebellious subjects; disloyal citizens
頑疾	stubborn illness; chronic disease
頑皮	naughty
頑童	urchin
頑鈍	blunt (instrument); stupid; thick-headed
頒	to promulgate; to send out; to issue
頒布	to issue; to proclaim; to enact (laws, decrees etc)
頒授	to confer (e.g. a diploma); to award
頒獎	to confer an award
頒發	to issue; to promulgate; to award
頒示	to make public; to display
頒給	to award; to confer on (sb)
頒行	issue for enforcement
頒賜	to award (a medal etc)
頒賞	to bestow a prize or reward; an award
頓	to stop; to pause; to arrange
頓悟	a flash of realization; the truth in a flash
頓挫	a transition (stop and change) in spoken sound, music or in brush strokes
頓挫抑揚	cadence; modulation
頓時	immediately; suddenly
頓河	Don River
頓涅斯克	Donetsk region of W. Ukraine
頓涅茨克	Donetsk, city in Ukraine
頓然	suddenly; abruptly
頓號	enumeration comma (、) (used to separate words or phrases in a list)
頓覺	to feel suddenly; to realize abruptly
頓足	stamp (one's feet)
頓首	kowtow
頔	fine; good; beautiful
頖	disperse
頗	surname Po; Taiwan pr. [Po3]
頗具	rather; quite; to have much
頗多	(quite) a lot; many
頗為	rather; quite
領	neck; collar; to lead
領主	feudal lord; suzerain; overlord
領事	consul
領事館	consulate
領先	to lead; to be in front
領先地位	lead(ing) position
領到	to receive
領取	to receive; to draw; to get
領受	to accept; to receive
領口	collar; neckband; neckline
領命	to accept an order
領唱	to lead a chorus; choirmaster; leading singer
領土	territory
領土完整	territorial integrity
領地	territory; domain; estate; (old) fief
領域	domain; sphere; field; territory; area
領子	shirt collar
領導	lead; leading; to lead
領導人	leader
領導力	leadership (capacity to lead)
領導小組	leading small group (LSG), a CCP body that exercises general oversight on matters relating to a specific area (LSG for foreign affairs 外事工作, LSG for comprehensively deepening reforms 全面深化改革 etc)
領導層	ruling class; leaders (of society); oligarchy
領導權	leadership authority
領導班子	leadership group; the leadership
領導統御	(Tw) leadership
領導者	leader
領導能力	leadership (ability)
領導集體	leadership group; collective of leaders
領屬	to have a hierarchical (possessive or supervisory) relationship
領岩鷚	(bird species of China) alpine accentor (Prunella collaris)
領工	to work as a foreman; foreman; supervisor
領巾	neckcloth; neckerchief
領帶	necktie
領悟	to understand; to comprehend
領悟力	comprehension; perception; feeling
領情	to feel grateful to sb; to appreciate the kindness
領扣	collar button
領收	to accept (a favor); to receive
領教	much obliged; thank you; to ask advice
領料	receiving materials
領料單	material requisition form
領會	to understand; to comprehend; to grasp
領有	to possess; to own
領死	to surrender oneself for execution; (fig.) to come forward to take the blame; to face punishment
領洗	to be baptized
領海	territorial waters
領燕鴴	(bird species of China) collared pratincole (Glareola pratincola)
領獎	to receive an award
領獎臺	(winner's) podium
領班	supervisor; foreman; head waiter or waitress
領略	to have a taste of; to realize; to appreciate
領盒飯	(coll.) (of an actor with a bit part) to receive a boxed meal when one's job is done (phrase used e.g. by movie viewers when a character dies)
領空	territorial air space
領章	collar insignia
領結	bow tie; loop of a necktie; lavaliere
領罪	to confess one's fault; to accept one's punishment
領航	navigation; navigator; to navigate
領航員	navigator
領英	LinkedIn (professional networking website)
領袖	leader
領角鴞	(bird species of China) collared scops owl (Otus lettia)
領諾	consent
領證	to obtain a certificate or license etc
領走	to lead (sb, or an animal) away
領跑	to take the lead in a race; to set the pace
領路	to lead the way
領軍	to lead troups; (fig.) to lead; leading
領銜	leading (role); heading list of signatories
領銜主演	leading actors (in a show); starring
領隊	to lead a group; leader of a group; captain (of sports squad)
領雀嘴鵯	(bird species of China) collared finchbill (Spizixos semitorques)
領頭	to take the lead; to be first to start
領頭羊	bellwether
領養	to adopt (a child, pet etc)
領館	consulate; consular official
領鵂鶹	(bird species of China) collared owlet (Taenioptynx brodiei)
領鵙鶥	(bird species of China) collared babbler (Gampsorhynchus torquatus)
頜	(bound form) jaw
頞	junction of nose and forehead
頠	easeful carriage of one's head
頡	(of a bird) to fly upwards; (of the neck) stiff
頤	(literary) chin; jaw; (literary) to foster; to nurture; to protect
頤和園	Summer Palace in Beijing
頤性養壽	to take care of one's spirit and keep fit (idiom)
頤指	to order with the chin; to indicate what one wants by facial gesture
頤指氣使	lit. to order people by pointing the chin (idiom); to signal orders by facial gesture
頤指風使	lit. to order people by pointing the chin (idiom); to signal orders by facial gesture
頤養	to nourish; to nurture; to strengthen
頤養天年	lit. to nurture one's years (idiom); fig. to enjoy one's later years
頦	(used in bird names) throat
頭	head; hair style; the top
頭一	the first
頭一回	the first time; for the first time
頭七	the 7th day after a person's death
頭上	overhead; above
頭位	(car racing) pole position
頭信息	header (computing)
頭倒立	headstand
頭像	portrait; bust; (computing) profile picture; avatar
頭兒	leader
頭兒腦兒	leading figure; bigwig
頭兜	helmet; chain mail hung from head to protect neck
頭冠	a crown; top of the head
頭功	first class merit
頭午	(dialect) morning
頭半天	morning; first half of the day
頭名	first place; leader (of a race)
頭向前	headlong
頭回	for the first time; on the previous occasion
頭圍	head circumference
頭大	to have a big head; (fig.) to get a headache; one's head is swimming
頭天	yesterday; previous day; first day
頭套	actor's headgear; wig; head covering
頭子	boss; gang leader
頭孢	(pharm.) cephalosporin
頭孢噻吩	(pharm.) cefalotin (aka cephalothin)
頭孢拉定	(pharm.) cefradine (aka cephradine)
頭孢菌素	(pharm.) cephalosporin
頭家	organizer of a gambling party who takes a cut of the winnings
頭寸	(finance) cash position; position
頭對頭	(of clinical trial) head-to-head
頭屯河區	Toutunhe, a district of Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
頭巾	cloth head covering worn by men in ancient times
頭座	headstock; turning head of a screw, drill, lathe etc
頭彩	first prize in a lottery
頭懸梁，錐刺股	lit. with his head attached to a beam and stabbing his thigh with an awl (idiom)
頭戴式耳機	headphones
頭擋	first gear
頭文字	initial; first letter of word (in Latin script)
頭昏	dizzy; giddy; one's head spins
頭昏目眩	(idiom) dazed; dizzy
頭昏眼暈	head spinning and blurred vision; giddy; in a faint
頭昏眼暗	head spinning and eyes dark (idiom); dizzy; fainting; vertigo
頭昏眼花	to faint with blurred vision (idiom); dizzy and eyes dimmed
頭昏腦悶	fainting and giddy; one's head spins
頭昏腦眩	dizzying; it makes one's head spin
頭昏腦脹	(idiom) to feel giddy; to feel dizzy; one's head spins
頭晚	previous night
頭暈	dizzy
頭暈目眩	(idiom) to have a dizzy spell; dazzled
頭暈眼花	to faint with blurred vision (idiom); dizzy and eyes dimmed
頭暈腦脹	dizzy and light-headed
頭朝下	(falling or suspended) head downwards; headfirst; headlong
頭期款	down payment
頭枕	headrest
頭條	Toutiao, personalized content recommendation app (abbr. for 今日頭條|今日头条[Jin1 ri4 Tou2 tiao2])
頭條新聞	top news story
頭梳	comb
頭款	down payment
頭湯	first bouillon, a broth made with ingredients that may later be reboiled to make a second bouillon 二湯|二汤[er4 tang1]
頭燈	headlight (of a vehicle); headlamp; head torch
頭版	(newspaper's) front page
頭牌	tablet announcing the name of leading actor in a theatrical production
頭獎	first prize
頭球	(soccer) header
頭疼	headache
頭痛	to have a headache
頭痛欲裂	to have a splitting headache (idiom)
頭痛醫頭	to treat the symptoms; reactive (rather than proactive)
頭痛醫頭，腳痛醫腳	to treat the symptoms rather than getting to the root of the problem (proverb)
頭癬	favus of the scalp (skin disease)
頭皮	scalp
頭皮屑	dandruff
頭盔	helmet
頭目	ringleader; gang leader; chieftain
頭破血流	lit. head broken and blood flowing; fig. badly bruised
頭等	first class; prime; main
頭等艙	1st class cabin
頭箍	headband
頭箍兒	erhua form of 頭箍|头箍[tou2 gu1]
頭紗	wedding veil; gauze headscarf or veil
頭索類	lancelet (Branchiostoma)
頭緒	outline; main threads
頭繩	string to tie hair
頭罩	hairnet; hood; cowl
頭羊	bellwether
頭胸部	cephalothorax
頭脹	distention in the head (TCM)
頭腦	brains; mind; skull
頭腦清楚	lucid; clear-headed; sensible
頭腦發脹	swelling of the head (physical condition); fig. swellheaded; conceited
頭腦簡單四肢發達	all brawn no brains
頭腦風暴	brainstorming
頭臉	head and face
頭蓋	skull; cranium
頭蓋骨	skull; cranium
頭號	first rate; top rank; number one
頭號字	largest typeface; biggest letters
頭蝨	head lice
頭角	youngster's talent; brilliance of youth
頭角崢嶸	promise of brilliant young person (idiom); showing extraordinary gifts
頭足綱	Cephalopoda, class of mollusks including nautilus and squid
頭路	clue; thread (of a story); mate
頭道	first time; first (round, course, coat of paint etc)
頭部	head
頭里	in front; in advance of the field
頭重	disequilibrium; top-heavy; heaviness in the head (medical condition)
頭重腳輕	top-heavy; fig. unbalance in organization or political structure
頭銜	title; rank; appellation
頭鐵	(slang) stubborn; headstrong
頭陀	itinerant monk (loanword from Sanskrit)
頭面	head ornament (in former times); (literary) head; face
頭面人物	leading figure; bigwig
頭頂	top of the head
頭領	head person; leader
頭頭	head; chief
頭頭是道	clear and logical
頭頸	(dialect) neck
頭顯	HMD; head-mounted display (abbr. for 頭戴式顯示器|头戴式显示器[tou2 dai4 shi4 xian3 shi4 qi4])
頭顱	head; skull
頭風	headache (Chinese medicine)
頭飾	head ornament
頭香	the first stick of incense placed in the censer (believed to bring good luck esp. during festivities)
頭骨	skull
頭髮	hair (on the head)
頭髮鬍子一把抓	lit. hair and beard all in one stroke
頯	cheekbone; protrude
頰	cheeks
頰窩	dimple; heat-sensing facial pit of a snake
頲	narrow forehead
頷	chin; to nod (one's assent)
頷下	under one's chin
頷下腺	submaxillary glands (biology)
頷聯	third and fourth lines (in an eight-line poem) which form a couplet
頷首	to nod one's head
頷首之交	nodding acquaintance
頸	used in 脖頸|脖颈[bo2 geng3]
頸動脈	carotid artery (medicine)
頸圈	collar (animal)
頸子	neck
頸椎	cervical vertebra
頸椎病	cervical spondylosis
頸背	nape
頸部	neck
頸鏈	necklace
頸項	neck
頹	to crumble; to collapse; to decline
頹勢	decline (in fortune)
頹唐	dispirited; depressed
頹喪	dejected; disheartened; listless
頹圮	to collapse; dilapidated
頹塌	to collapse
頹壞	dilapidated; decrepit
頹廢	decadent; dispirited; depressed
頹廢派	decadents (of the Decadent movement of late 19th century Europe)
頹放	decadent; dissolute; degenerate
頹敗	to decay; to decline; to become corrupt
頹景	scene of dilapidation
頹朽	decaying; rotten; decrepit
頹然	decrepit; ruined; disappointed
頹老	old and decrepit; senile
頹萎	listless; dispirited
頹運	crumbling fate; declining fortune
頹靡	(literary) devastated
頹風	degenerate custom; decadent ways
頻	frequency; frequently; repetitious
頻仍	frequent
頻寬	(Tw) bandwidth
頻帶	frequency range; bandwidth
頻度	frequency
頻數	(literary) frequent; repeated
頻數分佈	frequency distribution
頻次	frequency
頻段	(radio) band; frequency band
頻率	frequency
頻率合成	frequency synthesis
頻率調制	frequency modulation
頻發	(usu. of bad things) to frequently happen; to occur often
頻繁	frequently; often
頻譜	frequency spectrum; spectrum; spectrogram
頻道	frequency; (television) channel
頻頻	repeatedly; again and again; continuously
顆	classifier for small spheres, pearls, corn grains, teeth, hearts, satellites etc
顆粒	kernel; granule; granulated (sugar, chemical product)
顆粒歸倉	to gather all the harvested grain into the granary; to harvest every single grain
顆粒無收	not a single grain was reaped (as in a bad harvest year)
顆粒物	particulate matter (PM)
題	topic; problem for discussion; exam question
題名	autograph; to sign one's name
題外話	off-topic comment; digression
題字	to write an inscription (poem, remark, autograph etc); an inscription
題寫	to create a work of calligraphy for display in a prominent place (typically, a sign)
題序	to compose a preface (or introductory remarks, etc)
題庫	question bank (for examiners creating an exam, or students preparing for an exam)
題意	meaning of a title; implication; theme
題旨	subject of literary work
題材	subject matter
題獻	to dedicate (a book, film etc to sb)
題目	subject; title; topic; exercise or exam question (CL:道[dao4])
題簽	to write the title of a book on a label
題花	title design
題解	notes; key (to exercises)
題記	epigraph; inscription; graffito
題詞	inscription; dedication
題詩	to inscribe a poem (often, composed on the spot) on a painting, fan or ceramic bowl etc as a work of calligraphy
題跋	short comments; preface and postscript
額	forehead; horizontal tablet or inscribed board
額吉	mother (Mongolian)
額外	extra; added; additional
額外性	additionality (economics)
額外補貼	to give an extra subsidy, or bonus etc; bonus; perquisite
額定	specified (capacity, output etc); rated (capacity, output etc)
額定值	rated value; rating (for power output, flame resistance etc)
額度	quota; (credit) limit
額敏縣	Emin, a county in Tacheng Prefecture 塔城地區|塔城地区[Ta3 cheng2 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
額比河	Ebinur River in Xinjiang
額濟納	Ejin Banner in Alxa League 阿拉善盟[A1 la1 shan4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia (formerly in Gansu 1969-1979)
額濟納旗	Ejin Banner in Alxa League 阿拉善盟[A1 la1 shan4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia (formerly in Gansu 1969-1979)
額濟納河	Ejin River in Alxa League 阿拉善盟[A1 la1 shan4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
額爾古納市	Ergun, a county-level city in Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
額爾古納河	Argun River of Mongolia and Heilongjiang province, tributary of Heilongjiang River 黑龍江|黑龙江[Hei1 long2 jiang1]
額爾金	James Bruce, 8th Earl of Elgin (1811-1863), British High Commissioner to China who ordered the looting and destruction of the Old Winter Palace Yuanmingyuan 圓明園|圆明园 in 1860
額爾齊斯河	Irtysh River, flowing from southwest Altai in Xinjiang through Kazakhstan and Siberia to the Arctic Ocean
額竇	frontal sinus
額菲爾士	Everest (name)
額菲爾士峰	Mount Everest
額葉	frontal lobe
額角	forehead; temples
額頭	forehead
額骨	frontal bone (forehead)
顎	jaw; palate
顎裂	cleft palate (birth defect)
顎部	jaw
顎齦音	prepalatal or palatal sound (linguistics)
顏	color; face; countenance
顏值	attractiveness index (rating of how good-looking sb is)
顏值高	good-looking
顏厚	brazen
顏厚有忸怩	even the most brazen person will sometimes feel shame (idiom)
顏回	Yan Hui (521-481 BC), disciple of Confucius, also known as Yan Yuan 顏淵|颜渊[Yan2 Yuan1]
顏射	to ejaculate onto sb's face
顏控	someone who attaches great importance to good looks (esp. in others)
顏文字	Japanese-style emoticon, e.g. (⇀‸↼‶)
顏料	paint; dye; pigment
顏淵	Yan Yuan (521-481 BC), disciple of Confucius 孔夫子[Kong3 fu1 zi3], also known as 顏回|颜回[Yan2 Hui2]
顏真卿	Yan Zhenqing (709-785), a leading calligrapher of the Tang Dynasty
顏色	color; countenance; appearance
顏藝	(ACG) art of making humorously exaggerated facial expressions (loanword from Japanese 顔芸 "kaogei")
顏面	face; prestige
顏面掃地	lit. for one's face to reach rock bottom
顏體	Yan Style (in Chinese calligraphy)
顑	yellow
顒	grand; majestic; just
顓	surname Zhuan
顓頊	Zhuanxu, one of the Five Legendary Emperors 五帝[wu3 di4], grandson of the Yellow Emperor 黃帝|黄帝[Huang2 di4], trad. reigned 2513-2435 BC
顗	pleasing; respectful manner
願	(bound form) wish; hope; desire; to be willing
願心	a wish; a request (to a deity)
願意	to wish; to want; ready
願景	vision (of the future)
願望	desire; wish
願聞其詳	I'd like to hear the details
願賭服輸	lit. if you agree to bet you must accept to lose
顙	(literary) forehead
顛	top (of the head); apex; to fall forwards
顛三倒四	confused; disorderly; incoherent
顛來倒去	to harp on; over and over; merely ring changes on a few terms
顛倒	to turn upside down; to reverse; back to front
顛倒是非	(idiom) to distort right and wrong; to deliberately mislead
顛倒黑白	lit. to invert black and white (idiom); to distort the truth deliberately
顛兒	(Beijing dialect) to skedaddle; to make oneself scarce
顛兒面	to lose face
顛撲不破	solid; unbreakable; (fig.) irrefutable; incontrovertible; indisputable
顛沛	to fall over; to stumble
顛沛流離	homeless and miserable (idiom); to wander about in a desperate plight
顛狂	demented
顛球	to juggle a soccer ball (i.e. keep it in the air using feet, thighs, head etc)
顛簸	to be jolted around (car on a bumpy road, boat on a rough sea, aircraft experiencing turbulence)
顛茄	deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna)
顛覆	to topple (i.e. knock over); to capsize
顛覆分子	a subversive; a saboteur
顛覆國家罪	crime of incitement to overthrow the state
顛覆政府罪	crime of incitement to overthrow the state
顛覆罪	crime of incitement to overthrow the state
顛踣	to fall down; to fall forward
顛連	illogical
顛顛	glad and diligent
顛鸞倒鳳	to have sexual intercourse
顜	honest; upright
類	kind; type; class; category; (classifier) kind; type
類人猿	hominid
類似	similar; analogous
類似點	resemblance
類別	classification; category
類同	to resemble; to be similar to
類器官	organoid (regenerative medicine)
類固醇	steroid
類地行星	terrestrial planet
類型	type; kind; category; (computer programming) type
類屬詞典	thesaurus
類推	to reason by analogy
類星體	quasar
類書	reference book consisting of material quoted from many sources, arranged by category (about 600 of which were compiled between the 3rd and 18th centuries in China)
類木行星	Jovian planet
類毒素	toxoid
類比	analogy; (Tw) (electronics) analog
類烏齊縣	Riwoche, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
類球面	prolate spheroid (math.)
類目	category
類篇	Leipian, Chinese character dictionary with 31,319 entries, compiled by Sima Guang 司馬光|司马光[Si1 ma3 Guang1] et al in 11th century
類精神分裂型人格違常	schizoid personality disorder (SPD)
類語辭典	thesaurus
類金屬	metalloid (chemistry)
類風濕因子	rheumatoid factor
類黃酮	flavonoid (biochemistry)
類鼻疽	melioidosis
顢	dawdling
顣	frown
顥	(literary) white and shining
顧	to look after; to take into consideration; to attend to
顧不上	cannot attend to or manage
顧不及	(of sb who is preoccupied with doing sth) to pay no heed to (a less pressing consideration)
顧不得	unable to change sth; unable to deal with
顧主	(old) customer
顧全	to give careful consideration to; to display thoughtfulness towards
顧全大局	to take the big picture into consideration (idiom)
顧及	to take into consideration; to attend to
顧名思義	as the name implies
顧問	adviser; consultant
顧客	customer; client
顧客至上	the customer reigns supreme (idiom)
顧家	to take care of one's family
顧左右而言他	(idiom) to digress from the topic of discussion
顧影自憐	lit. looking at one's shadow and feeling sorry for oneself (idiom)
顧忌	to have misgivings; apprehension; worry
顧念	to care for; to worry about
顧惜	to take loving care of; to value
顧愷之	Gu Kaizhi or Ku K'aichih (346-407), famous painter of Eastern Jin dynasty, one of the Four Great Painters of the Six Dynasties 六朝四大家
顧慮	misgivings; apprehensions; to worry about; to be concerned about
顧此失彼	lit. to attend to one thing and lose sight of another (idiom)
顧炎武	Gu Yanwu (1613-1682), late Ming and early Qing Confucian philosopher, linguist and historian, played a founding role in phonology of early Chinese, author of Rizhilu or Record of daily study 日知錄|日知录
顧盼	(literary) to look around; (literary) to care for
顧盼自雄	to strut about feeling complacent (idiom)
顧眄	to turn one's head and look around
顧野王	Gu Yewang (519-581), historian and an interpreter of classical texts, editor of Yupian 玉篇[Yu4 pian1]
顫	to tremble; to shiver; to shake
顫動	to vibrate; to quiver
顫巍巍	trembling; swaying; flickering
顫抖	to shudder; to shiver; to shake
顫抖不已	to shake like a leaf (idiom)
顫聲	trill (of voice)
顫音	vibrato (of stringed instrument); trill (in phonetics)
顯	to make visible; to reveal; prominent
顯像	to form a picture; to develop a photo; to visualize
顯像管	CRT used in TV or computer monitor; picture tube; kinescope
顯出	to express; to exhibit
顯卡	(computing) graphics card; video card
顯存	graphics memory; video random-access memory (VRAM)
顯學	famous school; noted school of thought
顯宦	high official
顯山露水	to reveal one's talent (idiom)
顯弄	to flaunt; to show off
顯形	to show one's true nature (derog.); to betray oneself
顯影	(photographic processing) to develop
顯影劑	developer (photographic processing); contrast medium (medical imaging)
顯得	to seem; to look; to appear
顯微	micro-; microscopic; to make the minute visible
顯微學	microscopy
顯微解剖學	(medicine) histology; microscopic anatomy
顯微鏡	microscope
顯微鏡座	Microscopium (constellation)
顯性	visible; conspicuous; phanero-
顯性基因	dominant gene
顯懷	to look pregnant; obviously pregnant
顯揚	to praise; to commend; to hallow
顯擺	(coll.) to show off
顯效	to show an effect; to produce an effect; a conspicuous effect
顯明	obvious; evident; conspicuous; prominent; distinct; apparent
顯晦	light and shade
顯晶	phanerocrystalline; with crystal structure visible to the naked eye
顯焓	sensible enthalpy (thermodynamics)
顯然	clearly; evidently; obviously
顯現	appearance; to appear
顯生代	Phanerozoic, geological eon lasting since the Cambrian 寒武紀|寒武纪[Han2 wu3 ji4], c. 540m year ago
顯生宙	Phanerozoic, geological eon lasting since the Cambrian 寒武紀|寒武纪[Han2 wu3 ji4], c. 540m year ago
顯目	eye-catching; conspicuous
顯眼	conspicuous; eye-catching; glamorous
顯示	to show; to illustrate; to display
顯示卡	graphics card
顯示器	display device; monitor
顯示屏	display screen
顯示板	information screen
顯祖	ancestors (old)
顯耀	to show off
顯老	to look old
顯考	honorific term for one's deceased father
顯而易見	clearly and easy to see (idiom); obviously; clearly
顯職	prominent post
顯花植物	Phanerogamae (botany); flowering plants
顯著	outstanding; notable; remarkable
顯要	prominent; eminent; important person; notable; dignitary
顯見	obvious; clearly visible
顯豁	evident; clear and bright
顯貴	dignitary; distinguished person; royalty
顯赫	illustrious; celebrated
顯赫人物	a famous person; a luminary
顯達	illustrious; influential; prestigious
顯鏡	microscope; same as 顯微鏡|显微镜
顯露	to become visible; to reveal
顯露出	to reveal (a quality or feeling); to manifest; to evince
顯靈	(of a supernatural or divine being) to appear; to make itself manifest
顰	to scowl; to knit the brows
顰眉	to knit one's brows; to frown
顱	forehead; skull
顱底	base of the skull
顱測量	craniometry
顱骨	skull (of a dead body)
顳	bones of the temple (on the human head)
顳葉	temporal lobe
顳顬	temple (the sides of human head)
顳骨	temporal bone; os temporale
顴	(bound form) cheekbone
顴弓	(anatomy) zygomatic arch
顴骨	cheekbone; zygomatic bone
風	wind; news; style
風中之燭	lit. candle in the wind (idiom); fig. (of sb's life) feeble
風中燭，瓦上霜	lit. like a candle in the wind, or frost on the roof (idiom)
風乾	to air-dry; to season (timber etc); air-dried
風俗	social custom
風信子	hyacinth (flower)
風傳	it is rumored that
風光	scene; view; sight
風光旖旎	(idiom) idyllic scenery; picturesque landscape
風冷	to air-cool
風切變	wind shear (meteorology)
風力	wind force; wind power
風力水車	wind-powered waterwheel
風力發電廠	wind farm; wind park
風勢	(literary) strength and direction of the wind
風化	decency; public morals; to weather (rocks)
風化作用	weathering (of rocks); erosion (by wind etc)
風口	air vent; drafty place; wind gap (geology)
風口浪尖	where the wind and the waves are the fiercest
風向	wind direction; the way the wind is blowing
風向標	vane; propellor blade; weather vane
風吹日曬	(idiom) to be exposed to the elements
風吹草動	(lit.) grass stirring in the wind (idiom)
風吹雨打	lit. windswept and battered by rain; to undergo hardship (idiom)
風味	distinctive flavor; distinctive style
風和日暄	gentle wind and warm sunshine (idiom)
風和日暖	gentle wind and warm sunshine (idiom)
風和日麗	moderate wind, beautiful sun (idiom); fine sunny weather, esp. in springtime
風噪	wind noise
風圈	ring around the moon; lunar halo; solar halo
風土	natural conditions and social customs of a place; local conditions
風土人情	local conditions and customs (idiom)
風城	the Windy City, nickname for Chicago 芝加哥[Zhi1 jia1 ge1], Wellington, New Zealand 惠靈頓|惠灵顿[Hui4 ling2 dun4] and Hsinchu, Taiwan 新竹[Xin1 zhu2]
風場	wind farm
風塵	windblown dust; hardships of travel; vicissitudes of life
風塵僕僕	lit. covered in dust (idiom); fig. travel-worn
風姿	good looks; good figure; graceful bearing
風姿綽約	(idiom) graceful; lovely
風媒	(botany) anemophilous; wind-pollinated
風寒	wind chill; cold weather; common cold (medicine)
風尚	current custom; current way of doing things
風帆	sail; sailing boat
風平浪靜	lit. breeze is still, waves are quiet (idiom); tranquil environment
風度	elegance (for men); elegant demeanor; grace
風恬浪靜	lit. breeze is still, waves are quiet (idiom); tranquil environment
風情	mien; bearing; grace
風情萬種	(idiom) captivating; charming
風成	produced by wind; eolian
風扇	electric fan
風投	venture capital investment (abbr. for 風險投資|风险投资[feng1 xian3 tou2 zi1])
風控	risk control (abbr. for 風險控制|风险控制[feng1 xian3 kong4 zhi4])
風擋	windshield
風景	scenery; landscape
風景線	a strip of scenic beauty (coast, river, road etc)
風暴	storm; violent commotion
風暴潮	storm surge
風月	romance; beautiful scenery; small or petty (of talk etc)
風格	style
風標	wind vane; anemometer; weathercock
風機	fan; ventilator
風檔玻璃	windscreen (car window)
風氣	general mood; atmosphere; common practice
風水	feng shui; geomancy
風水先生	feng shui master; geomancer
風水輪流轉	fortunes rise and fall; times change
風沙	sand blown by wind; sandstorm
風油精	essential balm containing menthol, eucalyptus oil etc, used as a mosquito repellant
風波	disturbance; crisis; disputes
風波不斷	constantly in turmoil; crisis after crisis
風洞	wind tunnel
風流	distinguished and accomplished; outstanding
風流佳話	romance; romantic affair
風流倜儻	(idiom) suave; debonair; dashing
風流債	lit. love debt; fig. moral obligation in consequence of a love affair
風流蘊藉	temperate and refined
風流雲散	lit. dispersed by wind and scattered like clouds (idiom); fig. scattered far and wide (of friends and relatives)
風流韻事	poetic and passionate (idiom); romance; love affair
風浪	wind and waves; rough waters; (fig.) hardship
風浪板	(Tw) windsurfing; sailboard
風涼話	sneering; sarcasm; cynical remarks
風潑	crazy
風潮	tempest; wave (of popular sentiment etc); craze or fad
風濕	rheumatism
風濕性關節炎	rheumatoid arthritis
風濕熱	rheumatic fever
風濕關節炎	rheumatoid arthritis
風火輪	(martial arts) wind-and-fire wheel, weapon used in hand-to-hand fighting
風災	damaging storm; destructive typhoon
風燭殘年	one's late days; to have one foot in the grave
風物	scenery; sights
風球	(HK) typhoon warning signal
風琴	pipe organ (musical instrument)
風生水起	lit. a breeze springs up and creates waves on the water (idiom)
風疹	rubella; urticaria
風痱	(TCM) hemiplegia due to an apoplectic stroke
風癱	to be paralyzed
風穴	wind cave
風窗	air vent; louver; window
風笛	bagpipes
風箏	kite (lit. "wind zither", traditionally explained as being named after kites fitted with bamboo whistles that produced musical sounds when flown)
風箏衝浪	kitesurfing
風箱	bellows
風範	air; manner; model
風紀	standard of behavior; moral standards; discipline
風習	custom; practice
風聞	to learn sth through hearsay; to get wind of sth
風聲	sound of the wind; rumor; talk
風聲緊	(fig.) the situation is tense
風聲鶴唳	lit. wind sighing and crane calling (idiom)
風能	wind power
風致	natural charm; grace
風花雪月	wind, flower, snow and moon, trite poetry subject (idiom); effete language without substance
風華	magnificent
風華正茂	in one's prime
風華絕代	magnificent style unmatched in his generation (idiom); peerless talent
風蝕	wind erosion
風行	to become fashionable; to catch on; to be popular
風行一時	(idiom) to be popular for a while; to be all the rage for a time
風衣	windbreaker; wind cheater; wind jacket
風評	reputation
風調	character (of a person, verse, object etc); style
風調雨順	(idiom) to have good weather for crops
風貌	style; manner; ethos
風起潮湧	lit. wind rises, tide bubbles up; turbulent times
風起雲湧	to surge like a gathering storm (idiom); to grow by leaps and bounds
風趣	charm; humor; wit
風趣橫生	(idiom) spiced with wit; very witty
風車	pinwheel; windmill
風速	wind speed
風速計	anemometer
風邪	pathogenic influence (TCM)
風采	svelte; elegant manner; graceful bearing
風鈴	wind chimes
風鏡	goggles (esp. against wind and sandstorms)
風鑽	pneumatic drill; jackhammer
風阻	air resistance; aerodynamic drag
風阻尼器	wind damper (engineering)
風險	risk; hazard
風險投資	venture capital investment
風險管理	risk management
風雅	cultured; sophisticated
風雨	wind and rain; the elements; (fig.) trials and hardships
風雨交加	(idiom) wild and stormy; windy and wet
風雨同舟	lit. in the same boat under wind and rain (idiom); fig. to stick together in hard times
風雨如晦	lit. wind and rain darken the sky (idiom); fig. the situation looks grim
風雨晦冥	conditions of extreme adversity (idiom)
風雨欲來	lit. storm clouds approach; troubles lie ahead (idiom)
風雨淒淒	wretched wind and rain
風雨無阻	regardless of weather conditions; rain, hail or shine
風雨飄搖	tossed about by the wind and rain (idiom); (of a situation) unstable
風雪	snowstorm
風雪交加	(idiom) stormy with wind and snow; blizzard-like (conditions)
風雲	weather; unstable situation
風雲人物	the man (or woman) of the moment (idiom); influential figure
風雲變幻	changeable situation (idiom)
風電	wind power
風電廠	wind farm; wind park
風霜	wind and frost; fig. hardships
風霜雨雪	(lit.) wind, frost, rain and snow (idiom)
風靡	fashionable; popular
風靡一時	fashionable for a while (idiom); all the rage
風韻	charm; grace; elegant bearing (usually feminine)
風韻猶存	(of an aging woman) still attractive
風頭	wind direction; the way the wind blows; fig. trend
風風火火	bustling; energetic
風風雨雨	trials and tribulations; ups and downs
風餐露宿	lit. to eat in the open air and sleep outdoors (idiom)
風馬旗	Tibetan prayer flag
風馬牛不相及	to be completely unrelated to one another (idiom); irrelevant
風馳電掣	fast as lightning
風騷	literary excellence; flirtatious behavior
風骨	strength of character; vigorous style (of calligraphy)
颭	to sway in the wind
颭颭	seems as if floating
颮	whirlwind
颯	sound of wind; valiant; melancholy
颯然	soughing (of the wind)
颯爽	heroic; valiant
颯颯	soughing
颱	typhoon
颱風	typhoon
颱風眼	the eye of a typhoon
颳	to blow (of the wind)
颳風	to be windy
颶	used in 颶風|飓风[ju4 feng1]
颶風	hurricane
颸	(literary) cool breeze
颺	to soar; to fly; to float
颻	floating in the air
颼	to blow (as of wind); sound of wind; sough
颼颼	sound of the wind blowing or rain falling
颽	balmy; genial as wind
颾	blowing of the wind
颿	to gallop; Taiwan pr. [fan2]
飀	soughing of wind
飂	wind in high places
飄	to float (in the air); to flutter; to waft; complacent; frivolous
飄動	to float; to drift
飄卷	to flutter
飄塵	floating dust; atmospheric particles
飄帶	streamer; pennant
飄忽	swiftly moving; fleet; to sway
飄忽不定	to drift without a resting place (idiom); roving; errant
飄拂	to drift lightly
飄揚	to wave; to flutter; to fly
飄搖	floating in the wind; swaying; tottering
飄散	to waft (through the air); to drift
飄浮	to float; to hover; also written 漂浮
飄海	to go abroad
飄渺	faintly discernible; indistinct; misty
飄灑	suave; graceful; fluent and elegant (calligraphy)
飄然	to float in the air; swiftly; nimbly
飄盪	to drift; to wave; to float on the waves
飄移	to drift
飄窗	bay window
飄舉	to dance; to float in the wind
飄舞	to fly up; to dance in the air (of snowflakes, flower petals etc)
飄落	to float down; to fall gently (snowflakes, leaves etc)
飄蓬	to float in the wind; by ext., to lead a wandering life
飄逸	graceful; elegant; to drift
飄雪	to snow
飄零	to fall and wither (like autumn leaves); (fig.) drifting and homeless
飄風	whirlwind; stormy wind
飄飄	to float about; to flutter (in the breeze); (dialect) gay guy
飄飄然	elated; light and airy feeling (after a few drinks)
飄香	(of a fragrance) to waft about
飆	(literary) very strong wind; gale
飆升	to rise rapidly; to soar
飆口水	gossip; idle chat
飆汗	to sweat profusely
飆淚	to cry profusely
飆漲	(of prices) to skyrocket; to soar
飆車	to drive recklessly at high speed; street racing (motorbikes or cars)
飆風	fierce wind
飛	to fly
飛也似的	lit. as if flying; very fast
飛來橫禍	sudden and unexpected disaster (idiom)
飛來飛去	to fly about; to fly hither and thither; to flit
飛出	to fly out
飛出個未來	Futurama (US TV animated series, 1999-)
飛刀	a throwing knife; fly cutter (machine tool)
飛利浦	Philips (company)
飛升	to fly upwards; (fig.) to rise; to increase
飛吻	to blow a kiss
飛地	enclave; exclave (territory belonging to one jurisdiction but entirely surrounded by another)
飛天	flying Apsara (Buddhist art)
飛奔	to dash (run fast); to rush; to dart
飛安	(Tw) aviation safety
飛將軍	nickname of Han dynasty general Li Guang 李廣|李广[Li3 Guang3]
飛彈	(Tw) missile; stray bullet
飛征	(archaic) birds and animals
飛快	very fast; at lightning speed; (coll.) razor-sharp
飛手	drone pilot; drone operator
飛拉達	(loanword) via ferrata
飛掠	to fly past; to sweep past (at close range)
飛揚	to rise; to fly upward
飛揚跋扈	bossy and domineering; throwing one's weight about
飛撾	ancient weapon with a tip like a grappling hook, thrown at enemy combatants in order to capture them
飛散	(of smoke) to disperse; to dissipate
飛機	airplane
飛機場	airport; (slang) flat chest
飛機失事	plane crash
飛機師	pilot; aviator
飛機杯	male masturbator (sex toy); artificial vagina
飛機票	air ticket
飛機艙門	airplane cabin door
飛機雲	contrail
飛機餐	in-flight meal
飛檐走壁	to leap onto roofs and vault over walls (usually associated with martial arts)
飛檢	unannounced inspection (abbr. for 飛行檢查|飞行检查[fei1 xing2 jian3 cha2])
飛毛腿	swift feet; fleet-footed runner
飛沫	airborne droplet
飛沫傳染	droplet infection (disease transmission from sneezing, coughing etc)
飛沫四濺	to spray in all directions
飛漲	soaring inflation; rocketing prices
飛濺	to splash; to spatter
飛瀑	waterfall
飛盤	frisbee
飛碟	flying saucer; frisbee
飛禽	birds
飛禽走獸	(idiom) birds and animals
飛秒	femtosecond, fs, 10^-15 s
飛符	talisman in the form of a painting of symbols thought to have magical powers (also called 符籙|符箓[fu2 lu4])
飛紅	to blush
飛索	zip line
飛絮	windblown seed fluff (from willows, poplars etc)
飛線	(electronics) jump wire
飛線充電	to recharge (an electric vehicle) using an extension cable dangling out of a building
飛翔	to circle in the air; to soar
飛腿	kick
飛膜	patagium
飛舞	to flutter; to dance in the breeze
飛舟	fast boat
飛船	spaceship; spacecraft; dirigible
飛艇	airship
飛葉子	(slang) to smoke pot
飛虎隊	Flying Tigers, US airmen in China during World War Two
飛蚊症	eye floaters (moving spots in the eye's vitreous humor)
飛蛾	moth
飛蛾撲火	the moth flies into the flame; fatal attraction
飛蝗	flying locusts
飛蟲	flying insect; winged insect
飛行	(of planes etc) to fly; flying; flight
飛行員	pilot; aviator
飛行器	flying craft (airplane, drone, missile, balloon, spacecraft, satellite etc)
飛行棋	aeroplane chess (a Chinese board game)
飛行模式	airplane mode (on an electronic device)
飛行檢查	unannounced inspection; (sports) out-of-season drug testing
飛行甲板	flight deck
飛行記錄	flight record
飛行記錄儀	flight recorder; black box
飛行記錄器	flight recorder; black box
飛行雲	contrail
飛觥走斝	to drink one's fill (idiom)
飛賊	cat burglar; burglar who gains entrance by scaling walls
飛越	to fly across; to fly over; to fly past
飛跑	to run like the wind; to rush; to gallop
飛躍	to leap
飛躍道	parkour (HK)
飛身	to move quickly; to vault; flying tackle
飛車	fast-moving vehicle; to drive or ride a vehicle at high speed
飛輪	flywheel; freewheel; cassette (of a bicycle); fast-moving bike
飛輪海	Fahrenheit, Taiwanese boy band (2005–2012)
飛轉	to spin rapidly; to whirl around; (of time) to fly by
飛逝	(of time) to pass quickly; to be fleeting
飛速	swift; rapidly
飛過	to fly over; to fly past
飛針走線	flying needle and running seam (idiom); skillful needlework
飛鏢	darts (game); dart (weapon shaped like a spearhead)
飛餅	Indian-style flaky flatbread (roti canai or similar)
飛馬	at the gallop
飛馬座	Pegasus (constellation)
飛馳	to speed; to rush
飛騰	to fly swiftly upward; to soar
飛魚	Exocet (missile)
飛魚座	Volans (constellation)
飛魚族	"flying fish family", family who sacrifice everything to send their children abroad to study
飛鳥	bird
飛鳥時代	Asuka Period in Japanese history (538-710 AD)
飛鴻	swan goose; (fig.) letter; message
飛鴿	Flying Pigeon (famous bicycle brand, made in Tianjin since 1936)
飛鷹	eagle
飛鷹走馬	to ride out hawking (idiom); to hunt
飛黃騰達	lit. the divine steed Feihuang gallops (idiom)
飛鼠	flying squirrel; (dialect) bat
飛龍	dragon in flight; (fig.) (literary) person at the height of success
食	to feed (a person or animal)
食不厭精，膾不厭細	lit. to eat but finely ground grain and finely chopped meat (idiom, from Analects)
食不果腹	lit. food not filling the stomach (idiom); fig. poverty-stricken
食不知味	lit. to eat without tasting the food; worried or downhearted (idiom)
食之無味，棄之可惜	lit. to be hardly worth eating, but it would still be a pity to discard it (idiom)
食人	man-eating (beast); to eat people; fig. to oppress the people
食人俗	cannibalism
食人魔	ogre
食人魚	piranha
食人鯊	man-eating shark
食俸	salary of a public official; to be in government service
食具	tableware
食古不化	to swallow ancient learning without digesting it (idiom)
食品	foodstuff; food; provisions
食品加工機	food processor
食品攤	food vendor's stand
食堂	dining hall; cafeteria
食季	eclipse season
食安	food safety (abbr. for 食品安全[shi2 pin3 an1 quan2] or 食物安全[shi2 wu4 an1 quan2])
食客	diner (in a restaurant etc); hanger-on; sponger
食宿	board and lodging; room and board
食屍鬼	ghoul
食慾	appetite
食指	index finger; (literary) mouths to feed
食指大動	(idiom) to be excited to dig into the delicious food
食料	foodstuff
食材	(food) ingredient
食槽	manger
食水	(Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong) drinking water
食油	cooking oil
食法	cooking method
食火雞	cassowary (genus Casuarius), large flightless bird native to northeastern Australia and New Guinea
食物	food
食物中毒	food poisoning
食物及藥品管理局	US Food and Drug Administration authority (FDA)
食物鏈	food chain
食玉炊桂	food is more precious than jade and firewood more expensive than cassia (idiom)
食玩	small toy or figurine included with a food product; DIY candy kit
食用	to eat; to consume; edible
食用油	cooking oil
食療	(TCM) food therapy; treatment via food
食祿	to draw government pay; to be in public service; salary of an official
食管	esophagus; gullet
食管癌	esophageal cancer
食糧	food cereals
食肆	restaurant; eatery
食肉	carnivorous
食肉動物	carnivore
食肉寢皮	to eat sb's flesh and sleep on their hide (idiom); to swear revenge on sb
食肉目	Carnivora, order of carnivores within Mammalia
食肉類	carnivorous species
食腐動物	scavenger
食腦蟲	brain-eating amoeba (Naegleria fowleri)
食色	food and sex; appetite and lust
食色性也	Appetite and lust are only natural (Mencius 6A:4).
食草動物	herbivore
食荼臥棘	to eat bitter fruit and lie on thorns (idiom); to share the hard life of the common people
食菌	edible mushroom
食蟲植物	insectivorous plant
食蟲目	Insectivora
食蟻獸	ant-eater (several different species)
食補	tonic food (food considered to be particularly healthful)
食言	to break one's promise
食言而肥	lit. to grow fat eating one's words (idiom)
食譜	cookbook; recipe; diet
食道	esophagus; gullet; (old) the proper way to eat
食道癌	esophageal cancer
食醋	table vinegar
食量	quantity of food one eats; food intake
食頃	a short moment
食鹽	edible salt; table salt
飠	"to eat" or "food" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 184)
飢	(bound form) hungry
飢不擇食	when hungry, you can't pick what you eat (idiom); beggars can't be choosers
飢寒交迫	beset by hunger and cold (idiom); starving and freezing
飢渴	hungry and thirsty; (fig.) to crave (knowledge, love etc)
飢腸轆轆	(idiom) stomach rumbling with hunger; very hungry
飢餓	hunger; starvation; famine
飣	display food for show only; sacrifice
飥	used in 餺飥|馎饦[bo2 tuo1]
飧	(literary) supper
飩	used in 餛飩|馄饨[hun2 tun5]; Taiwan pr. [dun4]
飪	cooked food; to cook (until ready)
飫	full (as of eating)
飫甘饜肥	to live off the fat of the land (idiom); to have a luxurious lifestyle
飭	(bound form) to put in order; to arrange properly; circumspect
飯	cooked rice; meal; (loanword) fan
飯勺	rice paddle
飯匙	rice paddle
飯卡	meal card
飯圈	fan community; fandom
飯堂	dining hall; canteen; cafeteria
飯局	dinner party; banquet
飯島柳鶯	(bird species of China) Ijima's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus ijimae)
飯店	restaurant; hotel
飯廳	dining room; dining hall; mess hall
飯後一支煙，賽過活神仙	have a smoke after each meal and you will surpass the immortals (proverb)
飯後服用	post cibum (pharm.); to take (medicine) after a meal
飯後百步走，活到九十九	walk a hundred steps after each meal and you will live a long life (proverb)
飯托	person hired to lure customers to a restaurant
飯撒	(coll.) gesture by an idol aimed at delighting fans (e.g. winking or throwing signed items); to interact with fans in such a manner (loanword from Japanese "fansābisu" – literally, "fan service")
飯替	body double (in eating scenes)
飯桌	dining table
飯桶	rice tub (from which cooked rice or other food is served)
飯氣攻心	food coma; postprandial somnolence
飯盆	pet food bowl; dog bowl
飯盒	lunchbox; mess tin
飯碗	rice bowl; fig. livelihood; job
飯票	(lit. and fig.) meal ticket
飯粒	grain of cooked rice
飯糗茹草	(lit.) to live on dry provisions and wild herbs (idiom)
飯糰	rice ball (steamed rice formed into a ball and stuffed with various fillings)
飯莊	big restaurant
飯菜	food
飯量	amount of food one eats; portion size
飯類	rice dishes (on menu)
飯食	food
飯館	restaurant
飯館兒	erhua form of 飯館|饭馆[fan4 guan3]
飯點	mealtime (lunchtime, dinnertime etc)
飲	to give (animals) water to drink
飲品	beverage
飲宴	banquet; dinner; drinking party
飲彈	to shoot oneself
飲恨	to nurse a grievance; to harbor a grudge
飲恨吞聲	to harbor a grudge with deep-seated hatred (idiom)
飲料	drink; beverage
飲水	to drink water; drinking water
飲水器	water dispenser
飲水思源	lit. when you drink water, think of its source (idiom); gratitude for blessings and their well-spring
飲水機	water dispenser; water cooler; drinking fountain
飲泣	(literary) to weep in silence
飲流懷源	lit. when you drink water, think of its source (idiom); gratitude for blessings and their well-spring
飲用	drink; drinking or drinkable (water)
飲用水	drinking water; potable water
飲茶	to drink tea; (Cantonese) to have tea and dim sum
飲酒	to drink wine
飲酒作樂	drinking party; to go on a binge; to paint the town red
飲酒駕車	drink and drive (moderately high blood alcohol concentration)
飲食	eating and drinking; food and drink; diet
飲食療養	diet
飲鴆止渴	lit. drinking poison in the hope of quenching one's thirst (idiom)
飴	maltose syrup
飴糖	malt sugar; maltose
飶	fragrance of food
飼	to raise; to rear; to feed
飼主	pet owner
飼料	feed; fodder
飼槽	feeding trough
飼育	to rear (an animal)
飼草	forage grass
飼養	to raise; to rear
飼養員	zookeeper; stockman; breeder (of livestock, dogs or poultry etc)
飼養場	farm; feed lot; dry lot
飼養業	stock farming; animal husbandry
飼養者	feeder
飼餵	to feed (an animal)
飽	to eat till full; satisfied
飽人不知餓人飢	The well-fed cannot know how the starving suffer (idiom).
飽以老拳	to thump repeatedly with one's fist
飽受	to endure; to suffer; to be subjected to
飽含	to be full of (emotion); to brim with (love, tears etc)
飽和	saturated; filled to capacity
飽和脂肪	saturated fat
飽和脂肪酸	saturated fatty acid (SFA)
飽嗝兒	to belch (on a full stomach)
飽嘗	to enjoy fully; to experience to the full over a long period
飽學	learned; erudite; scholarly
飽暖思淫欲，飢寒起盜心	lechery springs from warmth and nourishment, kleptomania springs from hunger and cold (idiom)
飽滿	full; plump
飽漢不知餓漢飢	The well-fed cannot know how the starving suffer (idiom).
飽眼福	to feast one's eyes on (idiom)
飽私囊	to stuff one's pockets; to enrich oneself dishonestly
飽經憂患	having experienced much suffering
飽經滄桑	having lived through many changes
飽經風霜	weather-beaten; having experienced the hardships of life
飽綻	to swell to bursting (after having eaten too much)
飽覽	to look intensively; to feast one's eyes on
飽讀	to read intensively
飽足	to be full (after eating)
飽食終日	to spend the whole day eating (i.e. not doing any work)
飽食終日，無所用心	to eat three square meals a day and do no work (idiom)
飽餐	to eat one's fill
飽餐一頓	to eat one's fill; to be full
飽餐戰飯	to fill one's belly before the battle (idiom)
飾	decoration; ornament; to decorate
飾品	ornament; item of jewelry; accessory
飾巾	kerchief as head ornament
飾帶	sash; streamer
飾演	to act; to play a part
飾物	decorations; jewelry
飾胸鷸	(bird species of China) buff-breasted sandpiper (Tryngites subruficollis)
飾詞	excuse; pretext
飾邊	ornamental border
飾釘	stud (for decorating clothing, shoes, belts etc)
飾面	ornamental facing; veneer
飿	used in 餶飿|馉饳[gu3 duo4]
餀	tainted food
餂	to obtain by deception
餃	dumplings with meat filling
餃子	dumpling; pot-sticker
餃子館	dumpling restaurant
餃餌	dumpling; pot-sticker; same as 餃子|饺子
餄	used in 餄餎|饸饹[he2 le5]
餄餎	"hele" noodles, a type of noodle made from buckwheat or sorghum flour
餅	round flat cake; cookie; cake
餅乾	biscuit; cracker; cookie
餅圖	pie chart
餅型圖	pie chart; pie diagram
餅子	maize or millet pancake
餅屋	bakery
餅狀圖	pie chart
餅肥	cake fertilizer
餅鐺	baking pan
餅餌	cakes; pastry
餇	food
餉	soldier's pay
餉銀	(old) pay; wages (esp. for soldiers)
養	to raise (animals); to bring up (children); to keep (pets)
養傷	to heal a wound; to recuperate (from an injury)
養兒防老	(of parents) to bring up children for the purpose of being looked after in old age
養兵	to train troops
養兵千日，用兵一時	lit. Train an army for a thousand days to use it for an hour. (idiom); fig. extensive preparation eventually pays off
養兵千日，用在一朝	lit. train an army for a thousand days to use it for one morning (idiom)
養分	nutrient
養地	to maintain the land (with rotation of crops or fertilizer)
養大	to raise (a child or animal)
養女	adopted daughter
養子	adopted son; foster son
養家	to support a family; to raise a family
養家活口	to support one's family (idiom)
養家糊口	(idiom) to provide for one's family
養尊處優	to live like a prince (idiom)
養廉	to encourage honesty; to discourage corruption
養性	mental or spiritual cultivation
養成	to cultivate; to raise; to form (a habit)
養料	nutriment; nourishment
養樂多	Yakult (Japanese brand of fermented milk drink)
養殖	to raise; to breed (animals etc)
養殖場	livestock or aquaculture farm
養殖業	cultivation industry
養母	foster mother; adoptive mother
養活	to provide for; to keep (animals, a family etc); to raise animals
養漢	to commit adultery (of married woman)
養父	foster father; adoptive father
養生	to maintain good health; to raise a child or animal
養生之道	the way of maintaining good health
養生法	regime (diet)
養生送死	to be looked after in life and given a proper burial thereafter (idiom)
養病	to recuperate; to convalesce
養癰遺患	lit. to foster an ulcer and bequeath a calamity (idiom); tolerating budding evil can only lead to disaster
養眼	visually attractive; eye candy; easy on the eyes
養神	to rest; to recuperate; to regain composure
養精蓄銳	to preserve and nurture one's spirit (idiom); honing one's strength for the big push
養羊	sheep husbandry
養老	to provide for the elderly (family members)
養老保險	old-age insurance
養老送終	to look after one's aged parents and arrange proper burial after they die
養老金	pension
養老金雙軌制	(PRC) dual-track pension system (with separate schemes for public-sector and enterprise employees)
養老院	nursing home
養育	to rear; to bring up; to nurture
養花	growing flowers
養虎傷身	Rear a tiger and court disaster. (idiom); fig. if you're too lenient with sb, he will damage you later
養虎為患	lit. to nurture a tiger invites calamity
養虎遺患	Rear a tiger and court disaster. (idiom); fig. if you're too lenient with sb, he will damage you later
養蜂	to raise bees
養蜂人	beekeeper; apiculturist
養蜂業	beekeeping; apiculture
養蠶	to raise silkworms
養蠶業	silk industry
養護	to maintain; to conserve; curing (concrete etc)
養路費	road maintenance tax (China)
養雞場	chicken farm
養顏	to nourish one's skin; to maintain a youthful appearance
養魚池	fishpond
養魚缸	aquarium; fish tank
餋	to offer sacrifices
餌	pastry; food; to swallow
餌子	fish bait
餌敵	to lure the enemy; to trap
餌絲	a kind of rice-flour noodles from Yunnan province
餌線	tippet (in fly-fishing)
餌誘	to lure; to entice
餌雷	baited trap; booby-trap
餎	used in 餎餷|饹馇[ge1 zha5]
餎餷	a kind of flat cake made from bean flour, often cut up and fried
餐	meal; to eat; classifier for meals
餐具	tableware; dinner service
餐刀	table knife; dinner knife
餐前酒	aperitif
餐室	dining room
餐宴	banquet
餐巾	napkin
餐巾紙	paper napkin; serviette
餐廳	dining hall; dining room; restaurant
餐後酒	digestif
餐會	dinner party; luncheon
餐桌	dining table; dinner table
餐桌轉盤	revolving tray on a dining table; lazy Susan
餐桌鹽	table salt
餐牌	menu
餐車	dining car; diner
餐酒館	(Tw) bistro
餐食	meal; food (esp. as provided by a service, e.g. airline, restaurant or institution)
餐飲	food and beverage; catering; repast
餐飲店	dining room; restaurant
餐飲業	food service industry; catering industry
餐館	restaurant
餐點	food; dish; meal
餑	cake; biscuit
餑餑	pastry; steamed bun; cake
餒	(bound form) hungry; starving; (bound form) dispirited
餓	hungry; to starve (sb)
餓扁	(coll.) to be famished; ravenously hungry
餓死	to starve to death; to be very hungry
餓殍	starving people
餓殍載道	starved corpses fill the roads (idiom); state of famine
餓肚子	to go hungry; to starve
餓莩載道	starved corpses fill the roads (idiom); state of famine
餓莩遍野	starving people everywhere (idiom); a state of famine
餓虎撲食	like a hungry tiger pouncing on its prey
餓鬼	sb who is always hungry; glutton; (Buddhism) hungry ghost
餔	used in 餔子|𫗦子[bu4 zi5]
餔子	baby food
餕	(literary) leftovers (of a meal); (literary) to eat leftovers
餖	to set out food
餗	pot of cooked rice
餘	extra; surplus; remaining
餘下	remaining
餘光	(out of) the corner of one's eyes; peripheral vision; residual light
餘切	cotangent (of angle), written cot θ or ctg θ
餘剩	(literary) to remain; to be left over
餘割	cosecant (of angle), written cosec θ or csc θ
餘力	energy left over (to do sth else)
餘勇可賈	lit. spare valor for sale (idiom); fig. after former successes, still ready for more work
餘味	aftertaste; lingering impression
餘地	margin; leeway
餘姚市	Yuyao, a county-level city in Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
餘存	remainder; balance
餘孽	remaining evil element; surviving members (of an evil former regime); dregs (of a colonial administration)
餘干縣	Yugan, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
餘年	one's remaining years
餘弦	(math.) cosine
餘弧	complementary arc
餘怒	residual anger
餘怒未息	to be still angry
餘悸	lingering fear
餘慶縣	Yuqing, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
餘數	remainder (in division)
餘數定理	the Remainder Theorem
餘暉	twilight; afterglow
餘杭區	Yuhang, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
餘江區	Yujiang, a district of Yingtan City 鷹潭市|鹰潭市[Ying1 tan2 Shi4], Jiangxi
餘波	aftermath; repercussions; fallout
餘溫	residual heat; remaining warmth; (fig.) lingering enthusiasm
餘熱	residual heat; surplus heat; waste heat
餘燼	ember
餘甘子	Indian gooseberry (Phyllanthus emblica)
餘生	the remaining years of one's life; survival (after a disaster)
餘留	remainder; fractional part (after the decimal point); unfinished
餘碼	excess code (i.e. the unused bits in binary-coded decimal)
餘糧	surplus grain
餘緒	vestigial residue; a throwback (to a former age)
餘缺	surplus and shortfall
餘者	the remaining people
餘裕	ample; surplus
餘角	complementary angle (additional angle adding to 90 degrees)
餘量	remnant; leftover; tolerance (i.e. allowed error)
餘錢	surplus money
餘集	complement of a set S (math.); the set of all x not in set S
餘震	earthquake aftershock
餘音	lingering sound
餘音繞梁	reverberates around the rafters (idiom); fig. sonorous and resounding (esp. of singing voice)
餘韻	pleasant lingering effect; memorable stylishness; haunting tune
餘響繞梁	reverberates around the rafters (idiom); fig. sonorous and resounding (esp. of singing voice)
餘項	remainder term (math.); remainder; residue
餘額	balance (of an account, bill etc); surplus; remainder
餘黨	remnants (of a defeated clique); rump
餛	used in 餛飩|馄饨[hun2 tun5] and 餛燉|馄炖[hun2 dun4]
餛飩	wonton; Chinese ravioli (served in soup); Taiwan pr. [hun2dun5]
餜	cake
餜子	(dialect) pastry; (dialect) youtiao; deep-fried cruller
餞	farewell dinner; preserves
餞別	to give a farewell dinner
餞行	to give a farewell dinner
餟	circle shrines and make sacrifices
餡	filling; stuffing (for dumplings, pies etc)
餡料	filling; stuffing (for dumplings, pies etc)
餡餅	meat pie; pie; pasty
餤	to advance
館	building; shop; term for certain service establishments
館地	school (old)
館子	restaurant; theater (old)
館藏	to collect in a museum or library; museum collection; library holdings
館賓	private teacher; preceptor
館陶縣	Guantao, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
餩	hiccup
餪	send a present of a feast
餬	congee; (in 糊口[hu2 kou3]) to feed oneself
餮	(literary) greedy; gluttonous
餯	(of food) rotten and smelly
餱	dry provisions
餲	deep-fried noodle cake, also known as 饊子|馓子[san3 zi5]
餳	maltose syrup; molasses; heavy (eyelids)
餳麵	to let the dough rest
餵	to feed
餵哺	to feed (a baby)
餵奶	to breast-feed
餵料	to feed (also fig.)
餵母乳	breastfeeding
餵食	to feed
餵養	to feed (a child, domestic animal etc); to keep; to raise (an animal)
餶	used in 餶飿|馉饳[gu3 duo4]
餶飿	a kind of wonton made in ancient times
餷	to cook and stir (animal feed); (coll.) to simmer (porridge etc)
餸	(Cantonese) dish, usu. eaten with rice
餺	used in 餺飥|馎饦[bo2 tuo1]
餺飥	a type of short and wide noodle
餼	grain ration; sacrificial victim
餽	(literary) to make an offering to the gods
餾	to distill; to break a liquid substance up into components by boiling
餾分	fraction (of a distillate); key (one component part of a distillate)
餿	rancid; soured (as food)
餿主意	bad idea; stupid suggestion
餿臭	reeking; putrid
饁	to carry food to laborers in the field
饃	small loaf of steamed bread
饃饃	steamed bun
饅	used in 饅頭|馒头[man2 tou5]
饅頭	steamed bun
饈	delicacies
饉	time of famine or crop failure
饊	used in 饊子|馓子[san3 zi5]
饊子	deep-fried noodle cake
饋	(bound form) to present (a gift); (bound form) to send; to transmit
饋線	feeder line
饋贈	to present (a gift) to (sb)
饋送	to present (a gift); offering
饌	food; delicacies
饎	food; to cook
饐	rancid
饑荒	crop failure; famine; debt
饑饉薦臻	famine repeats unceasingly (idiom, from Book of Songs)
饒	rich; abundant; exuberant
饒了	to spare; to forgive
饒命	to spare sb's life
饒富	to be rich in (some quality or other)
饒平縣	Raoping, a county in Chaozhou City 潮州市[Chao2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
饒恕	to forgive; to pardon; to spare
饒有	full of (interest, humor, sentiment etc)
饒有興趣	engrossing
饒有風趣	bubbling with humor (idiom); witty and interesting
饒沃	fertile; rich; plentiful
饒河縣	Raohe, a county in Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
饒舌	talkative; to blather; to shoot one's mouth off
饒舌調唇	blabbing and showing off (idiom); loud-mouthed trouble maker
饒舌音樂	rap music
饒過	to pardon; to excuse; to forgive
饒陽縣	Raoyang, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
饔	(literary) cooked food; breakfast
饔飧	(literary) lit. breakfast and supper; fig. cooked food
饔餼	to present slaughtered or live animals
饕	(literary) greedy; gluttonous
饕客	gourmand
饕餮	ferocious mythological animal, the fifth son of the dragon king
饕餮之徒	glutton; gourmand
饕餮大餐	great meal fit for dragon's son (idiom); sumptuous banquet
饕餮紋	zoomorphic mask motif
饗	(literary) to offer food and drinks; to entertain
饗客	to entertain a guest
饗宴	feast; banquet
饗飲	to enjoy offered food and drink
饘	thick congee
饙	to steam rice
饜	to eat to the full
饞	gluttonous; greedy; to have a craving
饞人	to make one's mouth water; appetizing; greedy person
饞嘴	gluttonous; glutton
饞嘴蛙	sautéed bullfrog with chili sauce
饞涎欲滴	lit. to drool with desire (idiom); fig. to hunger for; greedy
饞癆	gluttony
饞貓	(humorous) person with a strong appetite; greedy eater (used playfully)
饞鬼	glutton; greedy pig
饢	to stuff one's face; to eat greedily
饢嗓	to stuff one's throat with food
饢坑	tandoor
饢餅	naan
首	head; chief; first (occasion, thing etc)
首付	down payment
首付款	down payment
首任	first person to be appointed to a post
首位	first place
首例	first case; first instance
首倡	to initiate
首先	first of all; in the first place
首創	to originate; to pioneer; to invent
首創者	pioneer; trailblazer
首善之區	(idiom) the finest place in the nation (often used in reference to the capital city)
首字母	initial letter of a word
首字母縮寫	acronym
首季	first season; first quarter
首家	first (hotel of its type, store of its type etc)
首富	richest individual; top millionaire
首尾	head and tail
首尾相接	to join head to tail; bumper-to-bumper (of traffic jam)
首尾音	onset and rime
首屆	first session (of a conference etc)
首屈一指	to count as number one (idiom); second to none; outstanding
首層	first floor; ground floor
首席	chief (representative, correspondent etc)
首席代表	chief representative
首席信息官	chief information officer (CIO)
首席執行官	chief executive officer (CEO)
首席大法官	Chief Justice (of US Supreme Court)
首席技術官	chief technology officer (CTO)
首席法官	Chief Justice
首席營銷官	chief marketing officer (CMO)
首席財務官	chief financial officer (CFO)
首席運營官	chief operating officer (COO)
首府	capital city of an autonomous region
首度	first time
首戰告捷	to win the first battle
首批	first batch
首推	to regard as the foremost; to name as a prime example
首日封	first day cover (philately)
首映	to premiere (a movie or TV show); premiere (of a movie)
首映式	premiere of a movie
首次	first; first time; for the first time
首次公開募股	initial public offering (IPO)
首次注視時間	(psychology) first fixation duration
首款	to confess one's crime
首演	maiden stage role; first performance; first public showing
首爾	Seoul, capital of South Korea (Chinese name adopted in 2005 to replace 漢城|汉城[Han4 cheng2])
首爾特別市	Seoul Special Metropolitan City, official name of the capital of South Korea
首當其衝	to bear the brunt
首發	first issue; first public showing
首相	prime minister (of Japan or UK etc)
首秀	debut
首級	severed head
首縣	principal county magistrate in imperial China
首肯	to give a nod of approval
首腦	head (of state); summit (meeting); leader
首腦會晤	leadership meeting
首腦會談	summit talks; discussion between heads of state
首腦會議	leadership conference; summit meeting
首要	the most important; of chief importance
首輪	first round (of a competition etc)
首辦	first organized; to run sth for the first time
首選	first choice; premium; to come first in the imperial examinations
首邑	local capital; regional capital
首都	capital (city)
首都劇場	the Capital Theater (in Beijing)
首都國際機場	Beijing Capital International Airport
首都機場	Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK)
首都經濟貿易大學	Capital University of Economics and Business (Beijing)
首都經貿大學	Capital University of Business and Economics, Beijing
首都領地	capital territory
首重	to emphasize; to give the most weight to; to rank first
首長	senior official
首音	(linguistics) onset
首頁	home page (of a website); title page; front page
首領	head; boss; chief
首飾	jewelry; head ornament
首鼠兩端	(idiom) to hesitate; to remain undecided
馗	cheekbone; crossroads; high
馘	(literary) to cut off the left ear of a slain enemy
馘首	(of a headhunter) to sever a head
香	fragrant; sweet smelling; aromatic
香Q	flavorsome and having a springy mouthfeel (Tw)
香乾	smoked bean curd
香几	a small table to accommodate an incense burner
香包	a small bag full of fragrance used on Dragon boat Festival
香口膠	chewing gum
香吻	kiss
香味	fragrance; bouquet; sweet smell
香味撲鼻	exotic odors assail the nostrils (idiom)
香噴噴	delicious; savory
香囊	spice bag
香坊區	Xiangfang, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
香奈兒	Chanel (brand name)
香嬌玉嫩	a beautiful woman
香子蘭	vanilla; Vanilla planifolia
香客	Buddhist pilgrim; Buddhist worshipper
香山公園	Fragrant Hills Park, Beijing
香山區	Hsiangshan, a district of Hsinchu 新竹市[Xin1 zhu2 Shi4], Taiwan
香巢	a love nest; a place of secret cohabitation (also derogatory)
香巴拉	Shambhala, mythical place (Buddhism, Hinduism)
香料	spice; flavoring; condiment
香會	a company of pilgrims
香木	incense wood
香根草	vetiver grass (Vetiveria zizanoides)
香格里拉	Shangri-la, the beautiful, idyllic land of James Hilton's 1933 novel "Lost Horizon"; a paradise on earth
香格里拉市	Shangri-La, a county-level city in Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
香案	incense burner table
香椿	Chinese toon (Toona sinensis), deciduous tree whose young leaves are used as a vegetable
香榭麗舍	Champs Élysées
香榭麗舍大街	Avenue des Champs-Élysées
香橙	orange (tree and fruit)
香檳	(loanword) champagne
香檳酒	(loanword) champagne
香櫞	citron (Citrus medica)
香氛	fragrance; perfume
香氣	fragrance; aroma; incense
香水	perfume; cologne
香河縣	Xianghe, a county in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
香油	sesame oil; perfumed oil
香泡	citron (Citrus medica)
香波	shampoo (loanword)
香洲區	Xiangzhou, a district of Zhuhai City 珠海市[Zhu1 hai3 Shi4], Guangdong
香消玉殞	(idiom) (of a beautiful woman) to die; to pass away
香液	perfume; balsam
香港	Hong Kong, special administrative region (SAR) of the PRC (short name 港[Gang3])
香港中文大學	Chinese University of Hong Kong
香港交易所	Hong Kong Stock Exchange
香港人	Hong Kong person or people
香港基本法	Hong Kong Basic Law (in effect since the resumption of Chinese sovereignty in 1997)
香港大學	The University of Hong Kong
香港島	Hong Kong Island
香港工會聯合會	Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions
香港文化中心	Hong Kong Cultural Center
香港濕地公園	Hong Kong Wetland Park, in Yuen Long, New Territories
香港理工大學	Hong Kong Polytechnic University
香港眾志	Demosistō, a pro-democracy political party in Hong Kong, established in 2016
香港科技大學	The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
香港腳	athlete's foot
香港警察	Hong Kong Police Force (since 1997)
香港貿易發展局	Hong Kong Trade Development Council
香港足球總會	Hong Kong Football Association
香港金融管理局	Hong Kong Monetary Authority
香港銀行公會	Hong Kong Association of Banks
香港電台	Radio Television Hong Kong (RTHK), public broadcaster
香湯	warm bathwater infused with aromatic herbs; scented bathwater
香滑	creamy
香火	incense burning in front of a temple; burning joss sticks
香火不絕	an unending stream of pilgrims
香火錢	donations to a temple
香火鼎盛	(of a temple) teeming with worshippers
香煙	smoke from incense (burned as an offering to one's ancestors); (fig.) continuation of family line
香燭	joss stick and candle
香燻	aroma
香燻療法	aromatherapy (alternative medicine)
香爐	a censer (for burning incense); incense burner; thurible
香片	jasmine tea; scented tea
香獐子	musk deer (Moschus moschiferus)
香瓜	oriental melon (Cucumis melo Makuwa Group)
香甜	fragrant and sweet; sound (sleep)
香皂	perfumed soap; toilet soap
香粉	face powder; talcum powder
香精	seasoning; condiment; flavoring
香肉	(dialect) dog meat
香胰子	toilet soap
香脂	balsam; face cream
香腸	sausage
香腸嘴	swollen lips; overly plump lips
香腺	perfume gland; musk gland
香艷	alluring; erotic; romantic
香花	fragrant flower; fig. beneficial (of artworks etc)
香茅	lemongrass (Cymbopogon)
香茅醇	citronellol (chemistry)
香草	aromatic herb; vanilla; alternative name for Eupatorium fortunei
香草精	vanilla extract; vanilla essence
香草蘭	vanilla (Vanilla planifolia)
香荽	coriander
香菇	shiitake (Lentinus edodes), an edible mushroom
香菜	coriander; cilantro; Coriandrum sativum
香菸	cigarette (CL:支[zhi1],條|条[tiao2],根[gen1],包[bao1],盒[he2]) (variant of 香煙|香烟[xiang1 yan1])
香葉	bay leaf; laurel leaf
香葉醇	geraniol (chemistry)
香蒜醬	garlic sauce; pesto
香蒲	Typha orientalis; broadleaf cumbungi; bulrush
香蕈	shiitake (Lentinus edodes), an edible mushroom
香蕉	banana
香蕉人	banana person (yellow outside, white inside)
香薄荷	savory (herb)
香薰	aromatherapy
香薷	Elsholtzia ciliata
香豌豆	sweet pea (Lathyrus odoratus)
香酥	crisp-fried
香醇	rich and mellow (flavor or aroma)
香醋	aromatic vinegar; balsamic vinegar
香閨	a woman's rooms
香附	red nut sedge (Cyperus rotundus)
香頌	(loanword) chanson
香餑餑	delicious cakes; popular person; sth that is in high demand
香馥馥	richly scented; strongly perfumed
香體劑	deodorant
香鼬	mountain weasel; alpine weasel
馝	fragrance
馡	fragrant
馣	fragrant odor
馥	fragrance; scent; aroma
馥列白	flat white
馥芮白	flat white
馥郁	strongly fragrant
馥馥	(literary) highly fragrant
馨	fragrant
馨香	fragrance; fragrant (of incense)
馬	surname Ma; abbr. for Malaysia 馬來西亞|马来西亚[Ma3 lai2 xi1 ya4]
馬丁	Martin (name)
馬丁·路德	Martin Luther (1483-1546), key figure of the Protestant Reformation
馬丁·路德·金	Martin Luther King, Jr. (1929-1968), American clergyman and civil rights activist
馬丁尼	(loanword) martini
馬丁爐	Martin furnace; open hearth furnace; open hearth
馬三家	Masanjia town in Yuhong District 于洪區|于洪区[Yu2 hong2 Qu1] in Liaoning, known for its re-education through labor camp
馬三立	Ma Sanli (1914-2003), Chinese comedian
馬上	at once; right away; immediately
馬上比武	tournament (contest in Western chivalry); jousting
馬上風	death during sexual intercourse
馬不停蹄	unrelenting; without stopping to rest
馬丘比丘	Machu Picchu
馬中錫	Ma Zhongxi, Ming writer (1446-1512), author of the fable The Wolf of Zhongshan 中山狼傳|中山狼传[Zhong1 shan1 Lang2 Zhuan4]
馬仔	henchman; gang member
馬伕	groom; stable lad; horsekeeper
馬伯樂	Maspero (name)
馬但	Matthan, son of Eleazar and father of Jakob in Matthew 1.15
馬來	Malaya; Malaysia
馬來亞	Malaya
馬來人	Malay person or people
馬來半島	Malay Peninsula
馬來文	Malay language
馬來西亞	Malaysia
馬來西亞人	Malaysian person or people
馬來西亞語	Malaysian Malay (the official variety of Malay spoken in Malaysia)
馬來語	Malay language
馬來鴴	(bird species of China) Malaysian plover (Anarhynchus peronii)
馬俊仁	Ma Junren (1944-), Chinese track coach
馬克	mark (monetary unit)
馬克·吐溫	Mark Twain (Samuel Langhorne Clemens 1835-1910), US writer, novelist and humorist, author of Adventures of Huckleberry Finn 哈克貝利·芬歷險記|哈克贝利·芬历险记[Ha1 ke4 bei4 li4 · Fen1 Li4 xian3 Ji4]
馬克宏	(Tw) Emmanuel Macron (1977-), president of France from 2017
馬克思	Marx (name)
馬克思主義	Marxism
馬克思列寧主義	Marxism-Leninism
馬克斯·普朗克	Max Planck (1858-1947), German physicist who first postulated quantization of energy
馬克斯威爾	James Clerk Maxwell (1831-1879)
馬克杯	(loanword) mug
馬克沁	Sir Hiram Maxim (1840-1916), American British inventor of the Maxim machine gun
馬克沁機槍	Maxim machine gun
馬克筆	marker (loanword); felt marker
馬克西米連	Maximilian or Maximilien (name)
馬克龍	Emmanuel Macron (1977-), president of France from 2017
馬兜鈴科	Aristolochiaceae (birthwort family)
馬兜鈴酸	aristolochic acid
馬公	Makung city in Penghu county 澎湖縣|澎湖县[Peng2 hu2 xian4] (Pescadores Islands), Taiwan
馬公市	Makung city in Penghu county 澎湖縣|澎湖县[Peng2 hu2 xian4] (Pescadores Islands), Taiwan
馬六甲	Malacca or Melaka (town and state in Malaysia), also strait between Malaysia and Sumatra
馬六甲海峽	Strait of Malacca
馬其頓	Macedonia
馬其頓共和國	Republic of Macedonia (former Yugoslav republic)
馬具	harness
馬刀	saber; cavalry sword
馬列	Marx and Lenin
馬列主義	Marxism-Leninism
馬列毛	Marx, Lenin and Mao
馬利	Mali (Tw)
馬利亞	Maria (name); Mary, mother of Jesus Christ
馬利亞納群島	Mariana Islands in the Pacific
馬利基	Maliki or Al-Maliki (name)
馬利筋	tropical milkweed (Asclepias curassavica)
馬到成功	to win instant success (idiom)
馬刺	spur (on riding boots)
馬前卒	lackey; errand boy; lit. runner before a carriage
馬力	horsepower
馬加駱	(loanword) mozzarella
馬勃菌	puffball (mushroom in the division Basidiomycota)
馬勒	Mahler (name); Gustav Mahler (1860-1911), Austrian composer
馬勺	wooden ladle
馬化騰	Ma Huateng aka Pony Ma (1971-), Chinese business magnate, CEO of Tencent
馬匹	horse
馬南邨	Ma Nancun (1912-1966), pen name of Deng Tuo 鄧拓|邓拓
馬占	(dialect) merchant (loanword)
馬卡龍	(loanword) macaron, French pastry with a soft filling sandwiched between the meringue-based cookie shells
馬友友	Yo-Yo Ma (1955-), French-Chinese-American cellist
馬口鐵	tinplate; tin (tin-coated steel)
馬可·奧勒留	Marcus Aurelius (121-180), Roman Emperor
馬可·波羅	Marco Polo (1254–c. 1324), Venetian trader and explorer who traveled the Silk road to China, author of Il Milione (Travels of Marco Polo)
馬可尼	Marconi, UK electronics company
馬可福音	Gospel according to St Mark
馬哈拉施特拉邦	Maharashtra (state in India)
馬哈迪	Mahathir bin Mohamad (1925-), Malaysian politician, prime minister 1981-2003 and 2018-2020
馬哲	Marxist philosophy
馬噶爾尼	Earl George Macartney (1737-1806), leader of British mission to Qing China in 1793
馬噶爾尼使團	the Macartney mission to Qing China in 1793
馬圈	stable
馬國	Malaysia
馬塞盧	Maseru, capital of Lesotho
馬大	Martha (biblical name)
馬大哈	a careless person; scatterbrain; frivolous and forgetful
馬天尼	(loanword) martini
馬太	(Protestantism) Matthew
馬太福音	Gospel according to St Matthew
馬失前蹄	lit. the horse loses its front hooves
馬奶酒	kumis; horse milk wine
馬子	bandit; brigand; gambling chip; chamber pot
馬家軍	the Ma clique of warlords in Gansu and Ningxia during the 1930s and 1940s
馬尼托巴	Manitoba province, Canada
馬尼拉	Manila, capital of Philippines
馬尼拉大學	University of Manila
馬尾	ponytail (hairstyle); horse's tail
馬尾區	Mawei, a district of Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
馬尾松	Masson pine (Pinus massoniana, Chinese red pine, horsetail pine)
馬尾水	Mawei river through Fuzhou city
馬尾水師學堂	Mawei River naval college, alternative name for Fuzhou naval college 福州船政學堂|福州船政学堂, set up in 1866 by the Qing dynasty
馬尾港	Mawei harbor, the harbor of Fuzhou city
馬尾穿豆腐，提不起來	lit. like tofu strung on horsetail, you can't lift it
馬尾軍港	Mawei naval base at Fuzhou city (in Qing times)
馬尾辮	ponytail
馬尿	(fig.) (derog.) beer or other alcoholic drink (esp. cheap or poor-quality)
馬屁	horse hindquarters; flattery; boot-licking
馬屁精	sycophant; toady; bootlicker
馬山縣	Mashan, a county in Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
馬工枚速	Sima Xiangru is meticulous and Mei Gao is fast (idiom)
馬布多	Maputo, capital of Mozambique (Tw)
馬幫	caravan of horses carrying goods
馬年	Year of the Horse (e.g. 2002)
馬店	inn that also provides facilities for visitors' horses
馬庫色	Marcuse (philosopher)
馬廄	stable
馬後炮	(Chinese chess) moving the cannon after moving the horse away
馬德拉斯	Madras or Chennai 欽奈|钦奈[Qin1 nai4], capital of Tamil Nadu on East coast of India
馬德拉群島	Madeira; the Madeira Islands
馬德望	Battambang
馬德里	Madrid, capital of Spain
馬恩列斯	abbr. for Marx 馬克思|马克思[Ma3 ke4 si1], Engels 恩格斯[En1 ge2 si1], Lenin 列寧|列宁[Lie4 ning2] and Stalin 斯大林[Si1 da4 lin2]
馬恩島	Isle of Man, British Isles; Isle of Mann
馬戛爾尼	Earl George Macartney (1737-1806), leader of British mission to Qing China in 1793
馬戛爾尼使團	the Macartney mission to Qing China in 1793
馬戲	circus
馬戲團	circus
馬房	horse stable
馬扎爾	Magyar; Hungarian
馬扎爾語	Magyar (language); Hungarian
馬托格羅索	Mato Grosso, a state of Brazil
馬拉	Marat (name)
馬拉加	Málaga, Spain; Malaga city in Iranian East Azerbaijan
馬拉博	Malabo, capital of Equatorial Guinea
馬拉喀什	Marrakech (city in Morocco)
馬拉地	Marathi language of west India
馬拉地語	Marathi language of west India
馬拉多納	Diego Maradona (1960–2020), Argentine footballer
馬拉威	Malawi (Tw)
馬拉斯奇諾櫻桃	maraschino cherry
馬拉松	(loanword) marathon
馬拉松賽	marathon race
馬拉盞	(loanword) belachan (South-East Asian condiment made from fermented shrimp paste)
馬拉糕	Cantonese sponge cake also known as mara cake
馬拉維	Malawi
馬拉開波	Maracaibo, Venezuela
馬拿瓜	Managua, capital of Nicaragua (Tw)
馬掌	the cutin skin of a horse's hoof; horseshoe
馬提尼克	Martinique (French Caribbean island)
馬斯克	Elon Musk (1971–), entrepreneur, CEO of Tesla and SpaceX
馬斯內	Jules Massenet (1842-1912), French composer
馬斯喀特	Muscat, capital of Oman
馬斯垂克	Maastricht (Netherlands)
馬斯河	Maas or Meuse River, Western Europe
馬斯洛	Abraham Maslow (1908–1970), US psychologist
馬斯特里赫特	Maastricht
馬普托	Maputo, capital of Mozambique
馬會	horse racing organization; jockey club; turf club (abbr. for 賽馬會|赛马会[sai4 ma3 hui4] or 賽馬公會|赛马公会[sai4 ma3 gong1 hui4])
馬服君	Ma Fujun, famous general of Zhao 趙國|赵国
馬服子	Ma Fuzi (-260 BC), hapless general of Zhao 趙國|赵国[Zhao4 Guo2], who famously led an army of 400,000 to total annihilation at battle of Changping 長平之戰|长平之战[Chang2 ping2 zhi1 Zhan4] in 260 BC
馬朱羅	Majuro, capital of Marshall Islands
馬村區	Macun, a district of Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
馬林巴	(loanword) marimba
馬格德堡	Magdeburg (German city)
馬桶	chamber pot; wooden pan used as toilet; toilet bowl
馬桶刷	toilet brush
馬桶拔子	toilet plunger
馬桶搋子	toilet plunger
馬榮	Mayon (volcano in Philippines)
馬槍	carbine; lance
馬槽	manger
馬檳榔	Capparis masaikai
馬歇爾	Marshall (name)
馬步	(martial arts) horse stance (with legs wide apart, as when riding a horse)
馬殺雞	(loanword) massage
馬氏珍珠貝	pearl oyster (genus Pinctada)
馬氏管	Malpighian tubule system (in the insect digestive tract etc)
馬氏體	(metallurgy) martensite; martensitic
馬洛	Marlow (name)
馬海毛	(loanword) mohair
馬熊	brown bear
馬燈	barn lantern; kerosene lamp
馬爾他	Malta (Tw)
馬爾他人	Maltese (person)
馬爾他語	Maltese (language)
馬爾代夫	the Maldives
馬爾卡河	Malka River, Russia, a.k.a. Balyksu River
馬爾可夫過程	Markov process (math.)
馬爾地夫	the Maldives (Tw)
馬爾堡病毒	Marburg virus
馬爾庫斯	Marcus (name)
馬爾康市	Barkam, a county-level city in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
馬爾斯	Mars (Roman God of War)
馬爾維納斯群島	Malvinas Islands (also known as Falkland Islands)
馬爾谷	Mark; St Mark the evangelist
馬爾貝克	Malbec (grape type)
馬爾馬拉海	Sea of Marmara
馬爾默	Malmo (Malmo city, of Sweden)
馬犬	Belgian Malinois (dog breed) (abbr. for 馬里努阿犬|马里努阿犬[Ma3 li3 nu3 a1 quan3])
馬王堆	Mawangdui in Changsha, Hunan, a recent Han dynasty archaeological site
馬球	polo
馬瑙斯	Manaus (city in Brazil)
馬甲	corset; sockpuppet (Internet slang); vest (dialect)
馬甲線	(neologism, attested by 2013) (coll.) vertical groove visible on either side of the belly in a person with well-toned abs
馬略卡	Mallorca or Majorca (island of Spain)
馬眼	male's pee hole
馬祖	Matsu Islands off Fujian, administered by Taiwan
馬祖列島	Matsu Islands
馬禮遜	Robert Morrison (1782-1834), Presbyterian minister, translator, and the London Missionary Society's first missionary to China
馬科	Equidae; horse family
馬穆楚	Mamoudzou, capital of Mayotte
馬竿	lasso pole; blind man's stick; white stick
馬糞紙	strawboard
馬約卡	Mallorca or Majorca (island of Spain)
馬約特	Mayotte, island between NW Madagascar and Mozambique
馬納馬	Manama, capital of Bahrain
馬紮	campstool
馬累	Malé, capital of Maldives
馬紹爾群島	Marshall Islands
馬經	form (horse racing)
馬纓丹	lantana (botany)
馬纓花	Persian silk tree (Albizia julibrissin)
馬群	herd of horses
馬耳他	Malta
馬耳東風	(lit.) the east wind blowing in a horse's ear (idiom)
馬背	horse's back
馬腳	sth one wishes to conceal
馬自達	Mazda, Japanese car make (derived from name Matsuda 松田)
馬致遠	Ma Zhiyuan (c. 1250-1321), Yuan dynasty dramatist in the 雜劇|杂剧[za2 ju4] tradition of musical comedy, one of the Four Great Yuan Dramatists 元曲四大家[Yuan2 qu3 Si4 Da4 jia1]
馬航	Malaysia Airlines
馬良	Ma Liang (Three Kingdoms)
馬芬	muffin (loanword); also written 瑪芬|玛芬[ma3 fen1]
馬英九	Ma Ying-jeou (1950-), Taiwanese Kuomintang politician, Mayor of Taipei 1998-2006, president of Republic of China 2008-2016
馬莎	Marks and Spencers, UK retail chain; Martha (name)
馬葫蘆	(dialect) (loanword) manhole
馬薩諸塞	Massachusetts, US state
馬蘇德	Massoud (name)
馬蘇里拉	(loanword) mozzarella
馬蘭	Malan military base and atomic test site in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
馬蘭基地	Malan military base and atomic test site in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
馬蘭花	iris; Iris tectorum
馬虎	careless; sloppy; negligent
馬蛔蟲	horse roundworm; parascaris equorum
馬蜂	hornet
馬術	equestrianism; horsemanship
馬表	stopwatch
馬褂	buttoned mandarin jacket of the Qing dynasty 清代[Qing1 dai4] (1644-1911)
馬褡子	saddle-bag
馬賊	horse thief; (old) group of horse-mounted bandits
馬賽	Marseille, city in south France
馬賽克	mosaic (loanword); pixelation
馬賽族	Basay, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan; Maasai people of Kenya
馬賽曲	La Marseillaise
馬赫	Ernst Mach (1838–1916), Austrian physicist and philosopher
馬赫數	(physics) Mach number
馬超	Ma Chao (176-222), general of Shu in Romance of the Three Kingdoms
馬趴	face-plant
馬路	street; road
馬路口	intersection (of roads)
馬路沿兒	roadside; edge of the road
馬路牙子	curb
馬蹄	horse's hoof; horseshoe
馬蹄形	horseshoe shape
馬蹄星雲	Omega or Horseshoe Nebula M17
馬蹄蓮	calla; calla lily
馬蹄蟹	horseshoe crab (Tachypleus tridentatus)
馬蹄鐵	horseshoe
馬車	cart; chariot; carriage
馬連良	Ma Lianliang (1901-1966), Beijing opera star, one of the Four great beards 四大鬚生|四大须生
馬達	(loanword) motor
馬達加斯加	Madagascar
馬達加斯加島	Madagascar
馬邊彝族自治縣	Mabian Yi Autonomous County, in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
馬那瓜	Managua, capital of Nicaragua
馬里	Mali
馬里亞納海溝	Mariana Trench
馬里亞納群島	Mariana Islands in the Pacific
馬里博爾	Maribor, 2nd biggest city in Slovenia
馬里奧	Mario (name)
馬里蘭	Maryland, US state
馬鈴薯	potato
馬鈴薯泥	mashed potato
馬銜	bit; mouthpiece
馬錢子	Strychnos nux-vomica
馬鐙	stirrup
馬關條約	Treaty of Shimonoseki (1895), concluding the First Sino-Japanese War 甲午戰爭|甲午战争[Jia3 wu3 Zhan4 zheng1]
馬關縣	Maguan, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
馬陸	millipede
馬隊	cavalry; caravan of horses carrying goods
馬雅	Maya (civilization of central America)
馬雅可夫斯基	Vladimir Mayakovsky (1893-1930), Russian poet and dramatist
馬雲	Ma Yun (1964-), aka Jack Ma, Chinese billionaire businessman, co-founder of Alibaba 阿里巴巴[A1 li3 ba1 ba1]
馬面	Horse-Face, one of the two guardians of the underworld in Chinese mythology
馬革裹屍	to be buried in a horse hide (idiom)
馬靴	riding boots
馬鞍	saddle
馬鞍山市	Ma'anshan, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
馬鞭	horsewhip
馬頭星雲	Horsehead Nebula
馬頭琴	morin khuur (Mongolian bowed stringed instrument)
馬首是瞻	to follow blindly (idiom); to take as one's only guide
馬馬虎虎	careless; casual; vague
馬駒	young horse (colt or filly)
馬騮	monkey (dialect)
馬騾	mule
馬鮫	Spanish mackerel
馬鮫魚	Spanish mackerel
馬鱉	leech
馬鹿	red deer; fool; idiot (from Japanese "baka")
馬鹿易形	to distinguish horse and deer easily; to know right from wrong
馬麻	(slang) mama; mom (pun on 媽媽|妈妈[ma1 ma5])
馬黛茶	(loanword) maté (drink)
馬齒徒增	(self-deprecating) to have grown old without accomplishing anything (idiom)
馬齒莧	Portulaca oleracea (common purslane)
馬龍區	Malong, a district of Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
馬龍派	Maronite Church; Maronites
馭	to drive; to manage; to control
馭手	person in charge of pack animals; chariot driver
馭氣	to fly magically through the air
馭獸術	animal training; taming wild beast (e.g. lion-taming)
馮	to gallop; to assist; to attack
馮內果	Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. (1922-2007), US writer
馮友蘭	Feng Youlan (1895-1990), distinguished Chinese philosopher
馮夢龍	Feng Menglong (1574-1646), late Ming dynasty novelist writing in colloquial (baihua), author of Stories Old and New 古今小說|古今小说[Gu3 jin1 Xiao3 shuo1]
馮德英	Feng Deying (1935–2022), author of the 1958 novel Bitter Herbs 苦菜花[Ku3 cai4 hua1]
馮德萊恩	Ursula von der Leyen (1958-), German politician, president of the European Commission from 2019
馮武	Feng Doubo or Feng Wu (1672-), calligrapher of the Ming-Qing transition
馮玉祥	Feng Yuxiang (1882-1948), warlord during Republic of China, strongly critical of Chiang Kai-shek
馮竇伯	Feng Doubo or Feng Wu (1672-), calligrapher of the Ming-Qing transition
馮驥才	Feng Jicai (1942-), novelist from Tianjin, author of Extraordinary people in our ordinary world 俗世奇人
馱	load carried by a pack animal
馱子	pack animal's load
馱獸	beast of burden
馱畜	pack animal
馱筐	pannier; double basket slung across pack animal
馱簍	pannier; double basket slung across pack animal
馱轎	litter carried by pack animal
馱運	to transport on pack animal; to carry (a load on one's back)
馱運路	a bridle path
馱重	(of a pack animal) to carry a heavy load
馱馬	pack horse
馲	camel; Taiwan pr. [luo4]
馳	to run fast; to speed; to gallop
馳名	famous
馳援	to rush to the rescue
馳譽	famous; acclaimed
馳道	(old) highway for the emperor; highway
馳騁	to gallop; to rush headlong
馳騖	to move swiftly; to speed; to run after (empty fame, power, money etc)
馳龍科	Dromaeosauridae (dinosaur family including velociraptor)
馴	to attain gradually; to tame; Taiwan pr. [xun2]
馴化	to tame; to domesticate
馴善	docile; tractable
馴從	tame; obedient
馴悍記	Taming of the Shrew, play by William Shakespeare
馴擾	to tame
馴服	to tame; tame; docile
馴良	docile; tame
馴順	tame; docile
馴養	to domesticate; to raise and train
馴養繁殖	domestication and breeding; captive breeding
馴養繁殖場	captive breeding facility; breeding farm
馴馬	to break in a horse; a trained saddle horse
馴馬人	horse trainer
馴馬場	horse training ground
馴駝	to tame a camel
馴鹿	reindeer
馵	(horse)
馹	horse for relaying dispatches
駁	variegated; heterogeneous; to refute
駁倒	to refute; to demolish (an argument, theory etc)
駁嘴	(dialect) to argue; to quarrel
駁回	to reject; to turn down; to overrule
駁子	to tow (a barge)
駁岸	a low stone wall built along the water's edge to protect an embankment
駁復	to refute
駁斥	to refute; to debunk; to deny
駁正	to refute and correct
駁殼槍	Mauser pistol
駁船	barge; lighter
駁落	to peel off; mottled; to fail an exam
駁詞	a refutation (variant of 駁辭|驳辞[bo2 ci2])
駁議	to correct (in writing) sb's errors or misconceptions
駁辭	refutation; incoherent speech
駁運	transport by lighter; lighter
駁雜	heterogeneous
駁面子	to hurt sb's feelings by rebuffing their request
駃	(literary) fast horse; (literary) fast (variant of 快[kuai4])
駃騠	hinny
駉	(literary) (of a horse) stout; sturdy
駋	(horse)
駐	to halt; to stay; to be stationed (of troops, diplomats etc)
駐京	(abbr.) stationed in Beijing
駐地	station; encampment
駐守	(man a post and) defend
駐波	standing wave
駐港	(abbr.) stationed in Hong Kong
駐留	to stay; to remain; to linger
駐節	(of a high official) to temporarily reside overseas (or in another part of the country) on an official posting
駐紮	to station; to garrison (troops)
駐華	stationed in China; located in China
駐足	to stop (walking); to halt
駐蹕	(literary) (of an emperor while traveling) to stop over; to lodge temporarily en route
駐車制動器	parking brake
駐軍	to station or garrison troops; garrison
駐錫	(Buddhism) (of a monk) to take up residence (usually at a temple for teaching or spiritual enlightenment)
駐顏	to maintain a youthful appearance
駐馬店市	Zhumadian, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
駐點	stationary point
駑	(literary) inferior horse
駑鈍	(literary) dull; slow-witted
駑馬	(literary) inferior horse
駑馬戀棧	lit. a worn-out horse is reluctant to leave the stable (idiom)
駒	colt
駒子	young horse, ass or mule; foal; colt
駓	(horse)
駔	powerful horse
駕	to harness; to draw (a cart etc); to drive
駕乘	to drive (a car); to fly (an aircraft); to pilot (a boat)
駕培	driver training (abbr. for 駕駛培訓|驾驶培训[jia4 shi3 pei2 xun4])
駕崩	(of an emperor) to pass away
駕帆船	sailing
駕校	driving school; abbr. for 駕駛學校|驾驶学校
駕機	to fly an airplane
駕照	driver's license (abbr. for 駕駛執照|驾驶执照[jia4 shi3 zhi2 zhao4])
駕臨	to grace sb with one's presence; your arrival (honorific)
駕艇	to pilot a boat
駕車	to drive a vehicle
駕輕就熟	lit. an easy drive on a familiar path (idiom); fig. experience makes progress easy
駕轅	to pull a carriage (of draft animal)
駕雲	to ride the clouds; fig. self-satisfied; arrogant
駕馭	to urge on (of horse); to drive; to steer
駕駛	to drive (vehicle); to pilot (ship, airplane etc)
駕駛人	(car, van) driver
駕駛員	pilot; driver
駕駛執照	driver's license
駕駛室	cab (of a locomotive, truck etc); driver's compartment; wheelhouse
駕駛席	driver's seat; pilot's seat
駕駛艙	cockpit; control cabin
駕駛證	driver's license
駕鶴成仙	to fly on a crane and become immortal
駕鶴西去	lit. to fly on a crane to the Western Paradise
駕齡	length of experience as a driver
駗	chatter mark
駘	tired; worn out horse
駙	prince consort
駙馬	emperor's son-in-law
駛	(of a vehicle, horse etc) to go fast; to speed
駛入	(of a car, ship, train etc) to enter
駛出	to leave port; to put off
駛向	(of a train, boat, plane etc) to head in the direction of
駛往	(of a vehicle, boat etc) to travel to; to head for
駛流	swiftly flowing; torrent
駛離	to steer (the plane) away from; to drive away (from a place); to leave
駜	strong horse
駝	hump or hunchbacked; camel
駝子	hunchback
駝峰	hump of a camel; hump (in a railroad hump yard)
駝峰命名法	(computing) CamelCase
駝背	hunchbacked; stooping; hunchback
駝背鯨	humpback whale (Megaptera novaeangliae)
駝色	light tan (color); camel-hair color
駝雞	ostrich (Struthio camelus); also written 鴕鳥|鸵鸟[tuo2 niao3]
駝鹿	elk; moose
駟	team of 4 horses
駢	(of a pair of horses) to pull side by side; to be side by side
駢偶文風	early Tang literary style despised as shallow by the classicists
駢儷	parallel (sentences); parallel prose
駢肩	shoulder to shoulder
駢脅	fused ribs (physical deformity)
駢體	parallel prose (ancient literary style)
駪	large crowd
駬	(horse)
駭	to astonish; to startle; to hack (computing, loanword)
駭人	terrifying; shocking; dreadful
駭人聽聞	shocking; horrifying; atrocious
駭客	(computing) (loanword) hacker
駭怕	to be afraid; to be frightened
駭浪	swelling or stormy seas
駭然	overwhelmed with shock, horror or amazement; dumbstruck; aghast
駭異	(literary) astonished; shocked; amazed
駯	black muzzle (of a horse)
駰	iron-gray (horse)
駱	camel; white horse with a black mane (archaic)
駱賓王	Luo Binwang (640-684), one of Four Great Poets of the Early Tang 初唐四傑|初唐四杰[Chu1 Tang2 Si4 jie2]
駱馬	llama
駱駝	camel (CL:峰[feng1],匹[pi3],頭|头[tou2]); (coll.) blockhead; ninny
駱駝祥子	Camel Xiangzi, novel by Lao She 老舍[Lao3 She3]
駴	thunderous beating of drums
駸	fleet horse
駹	black horse with a white face
駻	(of horse) fierce; wild
駼	used in 騊駼|𫘦𬳿[tao2 tu2]
駽	gray
駾	approach at swift gallop (on horses)
駿	spirited horse
駿馬	fine horse; steed
騁	to hasten; to run; to open up
騂	horse (or cattle) of reddish color; bay horse
騃	stupid; idiotic
騄	(horse)
騅	(literary) piebald horse
騆	divine horse
騇	mare; female horse
騉	fine horse
騊	used in 騊駼|𫘦𬳿[tao2 tu2]
騊駼	(literary) a well-regarded type of horse native to the northern regions, particularly associated with the Xiongnu people 匈奴[Xiong1 nu2]
騋	mare
騍	(bound form) (of a horse, mule, camel etc) female
騍馬	mare
騍駞	cow (female camel)
騍騾	mare (female mule)
騎	to sit astride; to ride (a horse, bike etc)
騎兵	cavalry
騎劫	to hijack (an airplane, motor vehicle, social media account, discussion etc)
騎坐	to sit astride; to ride
騎士	knight; cavalier; (Tw) bike rider (scooter, bicycle etc)
騎射	equestrian archery; riding and shooting
騎師	jockey; horse rider; horseman
騎手	horse rider; equestrian; jockey
騎槍	carbine; lance
騎樓	arcade (architecture)
騎牆	to sit on the fence (in a dispute)
騎田嶺	Qitian mountain range between south Hunan and Guangdong
騎脖子拉屎	(lit.) to take a dump while riding on sb's shoulders (saying)
騎虎難下	if you ride a tiger, it's hard to get off (idiom); fig. impossible to stop halfway
騎行	to ride (a bicycle, horse, motorbike etc)
騎術	equestrianism; horsemanship
騎警	mounted police (on horse or motorbike)
騎警隊	mounted police detachment (on horse or motorbike)
騎車	to ride a bike (motorbike or bicycle)
騎都尉	(archaic) cavalry commandant; cavalry captain
騎馬	to ride a horse
騎馬找馬	(idiom) (coll.) to continue in an unsatisfactory job (or romantic relationship etc) while actively looking for a better one
騎驢找馬	(idiom) (coll.) to continue in an unsatisfactory job (or romantic relationship etc) while actively looking for a better one
騎驢找驢	lit. to search for the mule while riding on it (idiom)
騎鶴	to ride a crane (as a Daoist adept)
騎鶴上揚州	lit. to ride a crane to Yangzhou (idiom); to get an official position
騎鶴化	(Daoism) to die
騏	(literary) black horse
騏驎	(literary) fine horse
騑	side horse (in a team of harnessed horses); horse
騕	name of a fabulous horse
騖	(bound form) to rush about; to strive for
騗	to get on a horse by swinging one leg over
騙	to cheat; to swindle; to deceive
騙人	to cheat sb; a scam
騙供	to cheat sb into confessing; to induce a confession
騙保	to commit insurance fraud
騙取	to gain by cheating
騙子	swindler; a cheat
騙局	a swindle; a trap; a racket
騙徒	cheat; swindler
騙案	scam; fraud
騙色	to trick sb into having sex
騙術	trick; deceit
騙走	to cheat (sb out of sth); to swindle (sb out of sth)
騠	used in 駃騠|𫘝𫘨[jue2 ti2]
騢	(horse)
騤	(of a horse) powerful; strong
騧	piebald horse
騫	(literary) to hold high
騭	a stallion; to rise; to arrange
騮	bay horse with black mane
騰	(bound form) to gallop; to prance; (bound form) to soar; to hover
騰出	to make (some time or space) available (for sb)
騰出手	to get one's hands free (to do sth else)
騰挪	to move; to shift; to move out of the way
騰格里	Tengri, the sky god in Mongolic and Turkic mythology
騰格里沙漠	Tengger Desert, located in Inner Mongolia and Ningxia
騰空	to rise into the air; to become airborne
騰空而起	(idiom) to rise into the air
騰衝市	Tengchong, a county-level city in Baoshan City 保山市[Bao3 shan1 Shi4], Yunnan
騰訊	Tencent, Chinese tech conglomerate, founded in 1998
騰越	to jump over; to vault; to soar over
騰飛	lit. to fly upwards swiftly; fig. rapid advance
騰騰	steaming; scathing
騰驤	(literary) to gallop; to charge forward
騱	(literary) horse with white forelegs
騵	chestnut horse with white belly
騶	groom or chariot driver employed by a noble (old)
騶從	mounted escort
騶虞	zouyu (mythical animal); official in charge of park animals
騷	(bound form) to disturb; to disrupt; flirty; coquettish
騷亂	disturbance; riot; to create a disturbance
騷亂者	a rioter
騷動	disturbance; uproar; to become restless
騷包	(slang) alluring; showy; flashy and enticing person
騷味	foul smell
騷客	(literary) poet; literati
騷情	frivolous; flirtatious
騷擾	to disturb; to cause a commotion; to harass
騷擾客蚤	Xenopsylla vexabilis
騷攪	to disturb; to pester
騷然	turbulent
騷瑞	(loanword) sorry
騷話	obscenities; lewd talk
騷貨	loose woman; slut
騷驢	jackass
騷體	poetry in the style of 離騷|离骚[Li2 Sao1]
騷鬧	noisy; to make a racket
騸	to geld
騺	heavy horse; horse unable to move because of twisted leg; plodding
騾	mule
騾子	mule
騾馬	pack animal; horse and mule
騾馬大車	mule and horse carts
驀	leap on or over; suddenly
驀地	suddenly; unexpectedly
驀地裡	suddenly; unexpectedly
驀然	suddenly; sudden
驁	a noble steed (literary); (of a horse) untamed
驂	outside horses of a team of 4
驃	white horse
驄	buckskin horse
驅	to expel; to urge on; to drive
驅使	to urge; to prompt; to spur on
驅力	(psychological) driving force; drive
驅動	to drive; to propel; drive (vehicle wheel)
驅動力	driving force
驅動器	drive
驅動程序	device driver (computing software)
驅動輪	drive wheel
驅寒	to warm oneself; to expel the cold (TCM)
驅役	to order (sb) about; (by extension) to put to use
驅散	to disperse (a crowd etc); (fig.) to dispel (misgivings etc)
驅病	wards off disease
驅瘟	to expel pestilences
驅策	to urge (sb to do do sth); to drive (sb to take an action)
驅蚊	to repel mosquitoes
驅蟲	to repel insects; to deworm
驅走	to drive away
驅趕	to drive (vehicle); to drive out; to chase away
驅車	to go by car (as driver or passenger)
驅逐	to expel; to deport; banishment
驅逐令	banishment order; expulsion warrant
驅逐出境	to deport; to expel
驅逐艦	destroyer (warship)
驅邪	to drive out devils; exorcism
驅除	to drive off; to dispel; to expel
驅除韃虜	expel the Manchu, revolutionary slogan from around 1900
驅離	to drive away; to dispel
驅魔	to drive out devils; to exorcise
驅魔趕鬼	to exorcise; to drive out evil spirits
驆	used in transliterating Buddhist books
驈	black horse with white legs
驊	chestnut horse
驌	used in 驌驦|骕骦[su4 shuang1]
驌驦	(literary) good horse
驍	good horse; valiant
驍勇善戰	to be brave and good at fighting (idiom)
驍將	valiant general
驎	(literary) horse with a dappled coat
驏	(literary) to ride a horse without a saddle
驏騎	to ride bareback
驒	(horse)
驔	black horse
驕	proud; arrogant
驕人	worthy of pride; impressive; enviable
驕傲	pride; arrogance; conceited
驕兵必敗	lit. an arrogant army is bound to lose (idiom)
驕奢淫逸	extravagant and dissipated; decadent
驕橫	arrogant; overbearing
驕氣	arrogance
驕矜	haughty; proud
驕縱	arrogant and willful
驕者必敗	pride goes before a fall (idiom)
驕陽	blazing sun
驕陽似火	the sun shines fiercely
驖	dark brown horse
驗	to examine; to test; to check
驗傷	to examine a wound or injury (typically for forensic purposes)
驗光	optometry; to examine the eyes
驗光師	optometrist
驗光法	optometry; eyesight testing
驗光配鏡業	optometry; eyesight testing
驗光配鏡法	optometry; eyesight testing
驗孕	to take a pregnancy test
驗孕棒	home pregnancy test kit
驗定	to come to a conclusion about sth after examining it; to assay
驗尿	to do a urine test
驗屍	autopsy; postmortem examination
驗屍官	coroner
驗收	to inspect and accept; acceptance
驗方	a tried and tested medical prescription
驗明	to ascertain; to identify; to verify (sb's identity etc)
驗明正身	to identify; to verify sb's identity; identification
驗核	to check; to examine; to inspect
驗票	to check tickets
驗算	to verify a calculation; a double-check
驗血	to do a blood test; to have one's blood tested
驗證	to inspect and verify; experimental verification
驗證碼	verification code
驗貨	inspection of goods
驗資	capital verification; certification of registered capital
驗鈔器	money counter and counterfeit detection machine
驗鈔機	a device used to check money and detect counterfeit bills
驗關	customs inspection (at frontier)
驗電器	electroscope
驙	(horse)
驚	to startle; to be frightened; to be scared
驚世駭俗	universally shocking; to offend the whole of society
驚人	astonishing
驚人之舉	to astonish people (with a miraculous feat)
驚動	to alarm; to startle; to disturb
驚厥	to faint from fear; (medicine) convulsions
驚叫	to cry out in fear
驚呆	stupefied; stunned
驚呼	to cry out in alarm or surprise
驚喜	nice surprise; to be pleasantly surprised
驚喜若狂	pleasantly surprised like mad (idiom); capering madly with joy
驚嘆	to exclaim in admiration; a gasp of surprise
驚嘆不已	to exclaim in astonishment
驚嘆號	exclamation point; exclamation mark (!)
驚嚇	to frighten; to horrify; to terrify
驚夢	to awaken from a dream
驚天動地	(idiom) world-shaking
驚奇	to be amazed; to be surprised; to wonder
驚師動眾	to alarm everyone; to scandalize the public
驚弓之鳥	(lit.) a bird startled by the mere twang of a bow (idiom)
驚心	staggering; shocking; frightened
驚心動魄	(idiom) heart-stopping; hair-raising; breathtaking
驚心膽顫	frightening; frightened (idiom)
驚怕	alarmed; frightened
驚怖	to surprise
驚急	stunned and anxious
驚怪	to marvel
驚怯	cowardly and panicking
驚恐	to be alarmed; to be frightened
驚恐翼龍	Phobetor (genus of pterodactyloid pterosaur)
驚恐萬狀	convulsed with fear (idiom)
驚悉	to be shocked to learn
驚悚	horror (movie); thriller
驚悟	to come to oneself with a start; to realize at a jolt
驚悸	shaking in fear; one's heart palpitating with fear
驚惕	to be alarmed; to be alert
驚惶	panic-stricken
驚愕	(literary) stunned; stupefied
驚慄	horror (genre); to tremble in fear
驚慌	to panic; to be alarmed
驚慌失措	to lose one's head out of fear (idiom)
驚慌失色	to go pale in panic (idiom)
驚懼	to be alarmed; to be terrified
驚擾	to alarm; to agitate
驚槑	(Internet slang) stupefied; stunned
驚濤	raging waves; stormy waves
驚濤駭浪	perilous situation
驚為天人	(lit.) to be astonished as if beholding a heavenly being (idiom)
驚爆	unexpected; staggering (news etc)
驚現	to appear unexpectedly
驚異	amazed
驚疑	bewildered
驚癇	epilepsy
驚群動眾	to alarm everyone; to scandalize the public
驚羨	to marvel at
驚蟄	Jingzhe or Insects Wake, 3rd of the 24 solar terms 二十四節氣|二十四节气 6th-20th March
驚覺	to realize suddenly; to wake up with a start
驚訝	amazed; astonished; to surprise
驚詫	to be surprised; to be amazed; to be stunned
驚豔	very impressed; stunned; amazed; to astonish; to impress greatly
驚賞	surprised and admiring; to appreciate with surprise
驚起	to give a start; to startle (an animal etc)
驚跳	to shy (away); to give a start
驚車	runaway carriage (caused by the harnessed animal bolting in fright)
驚逃	to stampede
驚遽	in a panic; stunned
驚醒	to rouse; to be woken by sth; to wake with a start
驚錯	puzzled; surprised and nonplussed
驚險	perilous; touch-and-go; nerve-racking; suspenseful
驚險片	(cinema) thriller
驚雷	sudden clap of thunder; fig. surprising turn of events
驚顫	to quake in fear
驚風	infantile convulsion (illness affecting children esp. under the age of five, marked by muscular spasms)
驚飛	to go off like a rocket; to rocket
驚馬	startled horse
驚駭	to be shocked; to be appalled; to be terrified
驚魂	in a panicked state; frightened
驚魂甫定	to have just recovered from a shock
驚鳥	to scare a bird into flight
驚鴻	graceful (esp. of female posture); lithe
驛	post horse; relay station
驛傳	relay post-horse mail service (in former times)
驛城區	Yicheng, a district of Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
驛站	relay station for post horses (old)
驛馬	post horse
驟	sudden; unexpected; abrupt
驟死	sudden death (play-off in sporting competition)
驟死式	sudden death style play-off (sporting competition)
驟減	to decrease rapidly; to plummet
驟然	suddenly; abruptly
驟變	to change suddenly; to change abruptly
驟降	to fall rapidly; to plummet
驟雨	sudden downpour; brief heavy rain
驢	donkey
驢友	backpacker; travel buddy
驢唇不對馬嘴	(lit.) a donkey's lips do not match a horse's mouth (saying)
驢子	donkey; ass
驢肝肺	(lit.) a donkey's liver and lungs; (fig.) ill intent
驢脣馬嘴	(lit.) a donkey's lips do not match a horse's mouth (idiom)
驢駒子	donkey foal
驢騾	hinny
驤	(literary) to run friskily (of a horse); to raise; to hold high
驥	thoroughbred horse; refined and virtuous
驥驁	fine horse; thoroughbred
驦	used in 驌驦|骕骦[su4 shuang1]
驩	a breed of horse
驪	black horse; jet steed; good horse
驪姬之亂	Li Ji Rebellion in 657-651 BC, where concubine Li Ji tried to throne her son but was eventually defeated by Duke Wen of Jin 晉文公|晋文公[Jin4 Wen2 gong1]
驪山	Mt Li near Xi'an with the tomb of the First Emperor
驪黃牝牡	a black stallion or possibly a yellow mare (idiom); don't judge by outward appearance
驫	a horde of horses
骨	used in 骨碌碌[gu1 lu4 lu4]; used in 骨碌[gu1 lu5]; used in 骨朵[gu1 duo5]
骨刺	spur; bony outgrowth
骨刻	carving in bone
骨力	(Chinese calligraphy) vigor of brushstrokes
骨化	to ossify; ossification
骨咄祿	Qutlugh (?–691), founder of the Second Turkic Khaganate
骨器	bone tool (archaeology)
骨子	ribs; frame
骨子裡	beneath the surface; fundamentally; at the deepest level
骨幹	diaphysis (long segment of a bone); fig. backbone
骨幹網路	backbone network
骨感	bony; skinny
骨折	to suffer a fracture; (of a bone) to break; fracture
骨料	aggregate (sand or gravel used in concrete 混凝土)
骨朵	club (ancient stick-like weapon with a melon-shaped enlargement at the tip)
骨架	framework; skeleton
骨殖	skeletal remains; Taiwan pr. [gu3 zhi2]
骨氣	unyielding character; courageous spirit; integrity
骨水泥	bone cement; orthopedic cement
骨法	bone structure and physiognomy
骨灰	bone ash; cremation ashes; cremains
骨灰盒	box for bone ashes; funerary casket
骨灰龕	columbarium
骨炭	bone black; animal charcoal
骨燼	bones and ashes; remains (after Buddhist cremation)
骨片	spicule
骨牌	dominoes
骨牌效應	domino effect; ripple effect
骨瓷	bone china (fine white porcelain made from a mixture of clay and bone ash)
骨病	osteopathy
骨痛熱症	Dengue fever; breakbone fever
骨瘤	osteoma (benign tumor composed of bone-like material)
骨瘦如柴	(idiom) as thin as a match; emaciated
骨盆	pelvis
骨盆底	pelvic floor (anatomy)
骨盤	pelvis (Tw)
骨碌	to roll rapidly; to spin; Taiwan pr. [gu2lu5]
骨碌碌	(onom.) rolling around; spinning; also pr. [gu1lu1lu1]
骨科	orthopedics; orthopedic surgery
骨立	(literary) emaciated; bony
骨節	joint (of the skeleton)
骨粉	bone meal
骨罈	urn
骨肉	blood relation; kin; one's flesh and blood
骨肉相殘	close kindred slaughter one another (idiom); internecine strife
骨肉相連	lit. interrelated as bones and flesh (idiom); inseparably related
骨肥厚	hyperostosis (abnormal thickening of bone)
骨膜	(anatomy) periosteum
骨膠原	collagen (protein)
骨血	flesh and blood; one's offspring
骨裂	bone fracture; (of a bone) to fracture
骨質增生	(medicine) hyperostosis
骨質疏鬆	osteoporosis
骨質疏鬆症	osteoporosis
骨贅	(medicine) osteophyte; bone spur
骨都都	(onom.) for plopping sound
骨針	spicule (in biology); bone needle (in archaeology)
骨關節炎	osteoarthritis
骨頂雞	(bird species of China) Eurasian coot (Fulica atra)
骨頭	bone; moral character; bitterness
骨頭架子	skeleton; skinny person; a mere skeleton
骨頭節兒	joint (of the skeleton)
骨骸	bones; skeleton
骨骺	(anatomy) epiphysis
骨骺線	(anatomy) epiphyseal line
骨骼	bones; skeleton
骨骼肌	striated muscle
骨髓	bone marrow
骨髓增生異常綜合徵	myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)
骨髓移植	(medicine) bone marrow transplant
骨髓腔	(anatomy) medullary cavity; marrow cavity of a bone
骨鯁	fish bone; bone stuck in the throat
骨鯁之臣	lit. fish bone of a minister (idiom); fig. person one can rely on for candid criticism
骨鯁在喉	fish bone stuck in one's throat (idiom); fig. to feel obliged to speak out candidly
骨齡	(medicine) bone age
骫	be bent; crooked (of bones)
骭	shinbone
骯	used in 骯髒|肮脏[ang1 zang1]
骯髒	dirty; filthy; despicable
骰	dice
骰塔	dice tower
骰子	dice
骰盅	dice cup
骱	joint of bones
骴	a putrid carcass
骶	(bound form) sacrum
骶骨	(anatomy) sacrum
骷	used in 骷髏|骷髅[ku1 lou2]
骷髏	human skeleton; human skull
骷髏頭	a death's-head; depiction of a dead person's skull
骸	bones of the body
骸骨	skeleton; skeletal remains
骹	shank (the leg from knee to ankle); leg (from hip to ankle)
骺	(anatomy) epiphysis
骺軟骨板	epiphyseal plate; growth plate (bone)
骼	used in 骨骼[gu3 ge2]
骽	hip bone
骾	to choke on a piece of food
髀	buttocks; thigh
髁	condyles
髂	ilium; outermost bone of the pelvic girdle; Taiwan pr. [ka4]
髂窩	iliac fossa (anatomy); pelvic basin internal to ilium
髂骨	ilium (the large flat bone of the pelvic girdle)
髆	shoulder blade
髈	(dialect) thigh
髍	paralysis of one side of the body
髎	(literary) hip bone; (TCM) space between two joints
髏	used in 髑髏|髑髅[du2 lou2] and 骷髏|骷髅[ku1 lou2]
髐	(onom.) sound of arrows
髑	used in 髑髏|髑髅[du2 lou2]
髑髏	(literary) skull (of a dead person)
髒	dirty; filthy; to get (sth) dirty
髒亂	dirty and disordered; in a mess
髒亂差	(coll.) squalid; squalor
髒兮兮	dirty; filthy
髒土	dirty soil; muck; trash
髒字	obscenity
髒彈	dirty bomb
髒標	Parental Advisory label (PRC)
髒水	dirty water; sewage
髒污	filth; grime; stain; dirty; filthy
髒煤	dirty coal; muck (from a colliery)
髒病	(coll.) venereal disease
髒話	profanity; obscene language; speaking rudely
髒辮	dreadlocks
髒髒	dirty
髒髒包	pastry bun filled with chocolate and covered with cocoa powder
髓	(bound form) bone marrow; (fig.) innermost part; (botany) pith
髓結	pith knot (in timber)
髓腦	brains; gray matter
髓過氧化物酶	myeloperoxidase (aka MPO) (molecular biology)
髓鞘	myelin sheath (membrane surrounding axon of nerve cell)
體	used in 體己|体己[ti1 ji5]; Taiwan pr. [ti3]
體位	posture
體例	style (of literature); form
體側	side of the body
體內	within the body; in vivo
體刑	corporal punishment
體制	system; organization
體力	physical strength; physical power
體力勞動	physical labor
體力活	physical labor
體勢	feature
體協	sports association (abbr. for 體育協會|体育协会[ti3 yu4 xie2 hui4])
體味	body odor; to appreciate a subtle taste
體團	community
體型	build; body type
體壁	integument (biology)
體壇	sporting circles; the world of sport
體外	outside the body; in vitro
體外受精	in vitro fertilization
體大思精	extensive and penetrating (idiom); expansive and profound (of writing)
體察	to experience; to observe
體己	close; intimate; personal savings
體己話	intimate or heartfelt words; heart-to-heart talk
體己錢	private saved money of close family members
體式	(of characters) form; style (cursive, printed etc)
體弱	debility
體弱多病	prone to illness; sickly; in fragile health
體形	figure; bodily form
體彩	sports lottery (sports betting run by a government agency, China Sports Lottery) (abbr. for 體育彩票|体育彩票[ti3 yu4 cai3 piao4])
體徵	(medical) sign; physical sign
體念	to consider sb else's position; to put oneself in sb else's shoes
體性	disposition
體恤	to empathize with; to show solicitude for; (loanword) T-shirt
體恤入微	to emphasize down to last detail (idiom); to show every possible consideration
體恤衫	T-shirt
體悟	to experience; to realize; to comprehend
體惜	to empathize; to understand and sympathize
體感	physical sensation; somatosensory; motion sensing (gaming)
體感溫度	apparent temperature (meteorology)
體態	figure; physique; posture
體操	gymnastic; gymnastics
體操運動員	gymnast
體操隊	gymnastics team
體會	to know from experience; to learn through experience; to realize
體校	sports school; physical education school (abbr. for 體育學校|体育学校[ti3 yu4 xue2 xiao4])
體格	bodily health; one's physical state; physique
體格檢查	physical examination; clinical examination; health checkup
體模	body model
體檢	abbr. for 體格檢查|体格检查[ti3 ge2 jian3 cha2]
體毛	body hair
體液	bodily fluid
體測	fitness test; to do a fitness test
體溫	(body) temperature
體溫檢測儀	infrared body thermometer; temperature gun
體溫表	clinical thermometer
體溫計	clinical thermometer
體無完膚	lit. cuts and bruises all over (idiom); fig. totally refuted
體現	to embody; to reflect; to incarnate
體癬	ringworm; Tinea corporis
體積	volume (amount of space an object occupies)
體積單位	unit of volume
體系	system; setup
體細胞	somatic cell
體統	decorum; propriety; arrangement or form (of piece of writing)
體罰	corporal punishment; to inflict physical punishment on (sb)
體育	sports; physical education
體育場	stadium
體育場館	gymnasium
體育比賽	sporting competition
體育活動	sports; sporting activity
體育渣	unathletic person
體育生	student who engages in regular training for a sport
體育界	sports circles; the sporting world
體育系	Physical Education department
體育運動	sports; athletic activities
體育達標測驗	physical fitness test (for school students etc)
體育鍛煉	physical exercise
體育項目	sporting event
體育館	gym; gymnasium; stadium
體能	physical capability; stamina
體脂	body fat
體腔	body cavity; coelom (biology)
體膚	skin; flesh; body
體臭	(unpleasant) body odor
體蝨	body louse
體表	surface of the body; periphery of the body; body thermometer
體裁	genre; style; form of writing
體認	to realize; realization
體諒	to empathize; to allow (for sth); to show understanding
體貌	appearance
體貼	considerate (of other people's needs)
體貼入微	to show every possible consideration (idiom); meticulous care
體質	(a person's) constitution; underlying physical condition; physical makeup
體適能	physical fitness
體重	body weight
體重器	scale for measuring body weight; bathroom scale
體重秤	scale for measuring body weight; bathroom scale
體重計	scale for measuring body weight; bathroom scale
體量	overall volume or size (of a building etc); scale; quantity
體長	body length
體面	dignity; prestige; face; honorable; creditable
體香	pleasant body scent
體香劑	(personal) deodorant
體驗	to experience for oneself
體魄	physique; build
體鳴樂器	idiophone
髕	kneecapping; to cut or smash the kneecaps as corporal punishment
髕骨	kneecap; patella
髖	pelvis; pelvic
髖關節	pelvis; hip joint
髖骨	hip bone
高	high; tall; above average
高䠷	(of a person) slender; tall and thin
高下	relative superiority (better or worse, stronger or weaker, above or below etc)
高不可攀	too high to reach (idiom); eminent and unapproachable
高不成低不就	can't reach the high or accept the low (idiom); not good enough for a high post, but too proud to take a low one
高不湊低不就	can't reach the high or accept the low (idiom); not good enough for a high post, but too proud to take a low one
高中	senior high school (abbr. for 高級中學|高级中学[gao1 ji2 zhong1 xue2])
高中學生	student of a senior high school
高中生	senior high school student
高亢	high-pitched and penetrating (musical instrument, voice etc)
高亮	to highlight (computing); (of sound) loud and clear; penetrating
高人	very able person
高人一等	a cut above others; superior
高仙芝	Gao Xianzhi or Go Seonji (c. 702-756), Tang dynasty general of Goguryeo 高句麗|高句丽[Gao1 gou1 li2] extraction, active in Central Asia
高仿	imitation; quality fake
高企	(of prices etc) to stay high
高估	to overestimate; to overrate
高位	high position; eminent status; top job
高位截癱	(medicine) high paraplegia
高低	height; level; (music) pitch; relative superiority
高低不就	can't reach the high or accept the low (idiom); not good enough for a high post, but too proud to take a low one
高低槓	uneven bars (gymnastics)
高低潮	the tide; high and low water
高保真	high fidelity; hi-fi
高個子	tall person; (of a person) tall
高傲	arrogant; haughty; proud
高僧	a senior monk
高價	high price
高光	highlight (in a photo or painting); (cosmetics) highlighter
高光時刻	highlight; glorious moment
高八度	an octave higher (music)
高冷	reserved; aloof; (geography) (of a location) elevated and cold
高出	to be higher (than the stated amount) by ...
高分	high marks; high score
高分低能	high in score but low in ability (as a result of teaching to the test)
高分子	macromolecule; polymer
高分子化學	polymer chemistry
高分辨率	high resolution
高利	high interest rate; usurious
高利貸	high-interest loan; usury
高加索	Caucasus; Caucasian
高加索山脈	Caucasus Mountains
高升	to get a promotion
高卡車	(loanword) go-kart
高危	high-risk
高原	plateau
高原反應	altitude sickness
高原山鶉	(bird species of China) Tibetan partridge (Perdix hodgsoniae)
高原岩鷚	(bird species of China) Altai accentor (Prunella himalayana)
高參	senior staff officer; staff officer of great talent
高叉泳裝	high leg swimsuit
高反	altitude sickness (abbr. for 高原反應|高原反应[gao1 yuan2 fan3 ying4])
高句麗	Goguryeo (37 BC-668 AD), one of the Korean Three Kingdoms
高台縣	Gaotai, a county in Zhangye City 張掖市|张掖市[Zhang1 ye4 Shi4], Gansu
高名	renown; fame
高呼	to shout loudly
高唐縣	Gaotang, a county in Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
高唱	to sing loudly; fig. to mouth slogans
高唱入雲	loud songs reaches the clouds (idiom); fig. to praise to the skies
高喊	to shout loudly; to raise a cry; to yell
高地	highland; upland
高坪區	Gaoping, a district of Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
高城深池	high walls and deep moat (idiom); impenetrable defense
高堂	main hall; honorific for one's parents (old)
高塔	tower
高壓	(physics) high pressure; (meteorology) high atmospheric pressure
高壓手段	high-handed (measures); with a heavy hand
高壓氧	hyperbaric oxygen; hyperbaric oxygenation
高壓氧治療	hyperbaric medicine; hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT)
高壓氧療法	hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT)
高壓清洗機	high pressure washer
高壓線	high tension power line
高壓鍋	pressure cooker
高壓電	high voltage
高壽	longevity; venerable age; your venerable age?
高大	tall; lofty; towering
高大上	(slang) high-end, elegant, and classy; abbr. for 高端大氣上檔次|高端大气上档次
高妙	masterly; subtle and clever (or artwork, writing etc)
高學歷	higher education record; record including Master's or Doctoral degree
高安市	Gao'an, a county-level city in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
高宗	Gaozong, the temple name of various emperors, notably 唐高宗[Tang2 Gao1 zong1], 宋高宗[Song4 Gao1 zong1] and 清高宗[Qing1 Gao1 zong1] (aka 李治[Li3 Zhi4], 趙構|赵构[Zhao4 Gou4] and 乾隆[Qian2 long2] respectively)
高官	high official
高官厚祿	high post and generous salary (idiom); promotion to a high official position
高官顯爵	high ranking
高密	high density
高密市	Gaomi, a county-level city in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
高富帥	"Mr Perfect" (i.e. tall, rich and handsome) (Internet slang)
高寒	high and cold (mountain area)
高射機槍	anti-aircraft machine gun
高射炮	anti-aircraft gun
高小	upper primary school (abbr. for 高級小學|高级小学[gao1 ji2 xiao3 xue2])
高尚	noble; lofty; refined
高就	to take up a prestigious position
高居	to stand above; to occupy an important position
高層	high-rise; high level; high class
高層執行員	senior executive
高層建築	high-rise building; skyscraper
高層雲	altostratus; high stratus cloud
高山	high mountain; alpine mountain
高山兀鷲	(bird species of China) Himalayan vulture (Gyps himalayensis)
高山區	alpine district
高山嶺雀	(bird species of China) Brandt's mountain finch (Leucosticte brandti)
高山旋木雀	(bird species of China) bar-tailed treecreeper (Certhia himalayana)
高山族	Gaoshan aborigines (Taiwan), "mountain tribes" (Tw)
高山病	altitude sickness; acute mountain sickness
高山症	altitude sickness; acute mountain sickness
高山短翅鶯	(bird species of China) russet bush warbler (Locustella mandelli)
高山金翅雀	(bird species of China) yellow-breasted greenfinch (Chloris spinoides)
高山雀鶥	(bird species of China) Chinese fulvetta (Fulvetta striaticollis)
高岸	in grand style; high bank
高岸深谷	high bank, deep valley (idiom); secluded location
高峰	peak; summit; height
高峰會	summit meeting
高峰會議	summit conference
高峰期	peak period; rush hour
高峻	high and steep
高嶺土	kaolin (clay); china clay
高州市	Gaozhou, a county-level city in Maoming City 茂名市[Mao4 ming2 Shi4], Guangdong
高工	senior engineer (abbr. for 高級工程師|高级工程师[gao1 ji2 gong1 cheng2 shi1])
高帽子	tall conical paper hat worn as a public humiliation; dunce cap
高幫	high-top (shoes); ankle-high shoes
高平市	Gaoping, a county-level city in Jincheng City 晉城市|晋城市[Jin4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
高年	old; aged
高年級生	senior student
高幹	high cadre; top party member
高度	height; altitude; elevation
高弓足	high-arched feet
高強	excellent; outstanding
高徒	brilliant student
高德納	the Chinese name of American computer scientist Donald Knuth (1938-), adopted prior to his visit to China in 1977
高性能	high performance
高慢	proud; overbearing
高手	expert; past master; dab hand
高手如雲	(idiom) teeming with experts
高才	great talent; rare capability; person of outstanding ability
高技術	high technology; high-tech
高抬	to speak highly of sb
高抬貴手	to be generous (idiom); to be magnanimous; Give me a break!
高招	wise move; masterstroke; bright ideas
高挑	raised high
高挑子	tall person
高接梨	(Tw) high-grafted pear (a variety of Asian pear grown in Taiwan, produced by grafting scions from high-altitude or high-latitude regions onto local rootstocks, adapting them to Taiwan's subtropical climate)
高揚	held high; elevated; uplift
高攀	social climbing
高攀不上	to be unworthy to associate with (sb of higher social status)
高效	efficient; highly effective
高效率	high efficiency
高效能	highly efficient; effectivity
高教	higher education (abbr. for 高等教育[gao1 deng3 jiao4 yu4])
高教機	advanced trainer aircraft (abbr. for 高級教練機|高级教练机[gao1 ji2 jiao4 lian4 ji1])
高敞	large and spacious
高數	further math
高斯	Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777-1855), German mathematician
高新技術	high tech; high technology
高於	greater than; to exceed
高昂	to hold (one's head) high; expensive; high (spirits etc)
高昌區	Gaochang, a district of Turpan City 吐魯番市|吐鲁番市[Tu3 lu3 fan1 Shi4], Xinjiang
高明	brilliant; superior; wise
高明區	Gaoming, a district of Foshan City 佛山市[Fo2 shan1 Shi4], Guangdong
高曠	high and wide
高朋滿座	surrounded by distinguished friends (idiom); in company
高朗	loud and clear; bright and clear
高木	Takagi (Japanese surname)
高本漢	Bernhard Karlgren (1889-1978), distinguished Swedish linguist and sinologist
高材	great talent; rare capability; person of outstanding ability
高材生	top student; high achiever; student of outstanding ability
高村正彥	KOMURA Masahiko (1942-), Japanese politician, foreign minister from 1998, minister of defense from 2007
高枕無憂	to sleep peacefully (idiom); (fig.) to rest easy
高果糖漿	high-fructose corn syrup
高果糖玉米糖漿	high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS)
高架	overhead; elevated (walkway, highway etc); elevated road
高架橋	high trestle bridge; viaduct; flyover
高架道路	elevated road
高校	universities and colleges; abbr. for 高等學校|高等学校
高梁	Takahashi (Japanese surname and place name)
高棉	Cambodia; Kampuchea; Khmer
高樓	high building; multistory building; skyscraper
高樓大廈	tall building
高橋	Takahashi (Japanese surname)
高橋留美子	Takahashi Rumiko, Japanese manga artist
高檔	superior quality; high grade; top grade
高檔服裝	haute couture; high fashion clothing
高欄	high hurdle
高次	higher degree (e.g. equation in math.)
高歌	to sing loudly; to lift one's voice in song
高歌猛進	to advance singing loudly (idiom); triumphant progress
高段	high-level (ability); advanced
高深	profound
高深莫測	profound mystery
高淳區	Gaochun, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
高清	high definition (television etc); high fidelity (audio)
高清晰度	high definition (instruments); high resolution
高清電視	high definition television HDTV
高港區	Gaogang, a district of Taizhou City 泰州市[Tai4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
高湯	clear soup; soup stock
高溫	high temperature
高漲	to surge up; to rise; (of tensions etc) to run high
高潔	noble and clean-living; lofty and unsullied
高潮	high tide; high water; upsurge; peak of activity
高潮迭起	each new high point replaced by another
高濃縮鈾	highly enriched uranium (HEU)
高熱	(medicine) high fever; (physics) high heat
高熱病	fever; high fever
高熱量	high calorie (foodstuff); high heat content
高燒	(medicine) high fever
高爐	blast furnace
高爾基	Gorkii (name)
高爾基複合體	Golgi complex (in cell biology)
高爾基體	Golgi apparatus
高爾夫	(loanword) golf
高爾夫球	golf; golf ball
高爾夫球場	golf course
高爾察克	Aleksandr Kolchak (1874-1920), Russian naval commander, head of anti-Bolshevik White forces
高牌	high card (poker)
高球	(sports) high ball; lob
高球場	(HK, Tw) golf course; golf links
高球杯	highball glass
高產	high yielding
高田	Takada (Japanese surname)
高甲戲	Gaojia opera of Fujian and Taiwan
高畑勛	Isao Takahata (1935-2018), co-founder of Studio Ghibli
高發	(of diseases, accidents) to occur with a high incidence
高發人群	(medicine) high-risk group
高盛	Goldman Sachs
高盧	Gaul
高盧語	Gaulish or Gallic (language)
高看	to attach importance to sth; to value
高瞻遠矚	to stand tall and see far (idiom); taking the long and broad view
高矗	towering
高矮	height (i.e. whether short or tall)
高矮胖瘦	one's physique (tall or short, thin or fat); stature
高碑店市	Gaobeidian, a county-level city in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
高祖母	great-great-grandmother
高祖父	great-great-grandfather
高科技	high tech; high technology
高程	altitude (e.g. above street level); elevation
高積雲	altocumulus; high cumulus cloud
高空	high altitude
高空作業	to work high above the ground
高空俱樂部	Mile High Club
高空彈跳	bungee jumping (Tw)
高空病	high altitude sickness
高端	high-end
高等	high-level; higher (animals, education etc); advanced (math etc)
高等代數	higher algebra
高等學校	colleges and universities
高等教育	higher education
高等法院	High Court
高筋麵粉	bread flour; hard flour
高筍	(dialect) see 茭白[jiao1 bai2]
高筒靴	tall boots
高管	senior executive; senior manager (abbr. for 高級管理人員|高级管理人员[gao1 ji2 guan3 li3 ren2 yuan2])
高粱	sorghum; common sorghum (Sorghum vulgare)
高精度	high precision
高級	high level; high grade; advanced
高級中學	senior high school
高級專員	high commissioner
高級小學	upper primary school; upper stage of primary education
高級職務	high position; senior post
高級職員	high official; senior executive
高級語言	(computing) high-level language
高維	(math.) higher dimensional
高維代數簇	(math.) higher dimensional algebraic variety
高維空間	(math.) higher dimensional space
高緯度	high latitude (i.e. near the poles)
高縣	Gao County or Gaoxian, a county in Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
高纖維	high fiber
高羅珮	Gao Luopei or R.H. van Gulik (1910-1967), Dutch sinologist, diplomat and writer
高翔	Gao Xiang (1688-1753), Qing dynasty painter
高翻	(weightlifting) power clean
高考	college entrance exam (especially as abbr. for 普通高等學校招生全國統一考試|普通高等学校招生全国统一考试[Pu3 tong1 Gao1 deng3 Xue2 xiao4 Zhao1 sheng1 Quan2 guo2 Tong3 yi1 Kao3 shi4])
高考移民	students who relocate to another region of China in order to gain an advantage on the college entrance exam
高聚物	polymer
高聲	aloud; loud; loudly
高聳	erect; towering; to stand tall
高聳入雲	tall and erect, reaching through the clouds (idiom); used to describe tall mountain or skyscraper
高職	vocational higher education institution (abbr. for 高等職業技術學校|高等职业技术学校[gao1 deng3 zhi2 ye4 ji4 shu4 xue2 xiao4])
高職院校	professional school; higher vocational school
高能	high energy
高能粒子	high energy particle
高能量	high energy (physics)
高脂血症	high blood fat disease; hyperlipidemia; hypertriglyceridemia
高腔	gaoqiang, high-pitched opera singing style
高腳杯	goblet
高腳椅	tall chair; bar stool; (child's) high chair
高致病性	highly pathenogenic
高興	happy; glad; willing (to do sth)
高舉	to lift up; to hold high
高舉遠蹈	to leave office for a high and distant place (idiom); to retire and place oneself above the fray
高良薑	Thai ginger; lesser galangale (Kaempferia galanga)
高薪	high salary
高薪厚祿	high salary, generous remuneration
高薪聘請	to hire at a high salary
高薪酬	high salary
高薪養廉	policy of high pay to discourage corruption
高處	high place; elevation
高處不勝寒	it's lonely at the top (idiom)
高血壓	high blood pressure; hypertension
高血糖	hyperglycemia; abnormally high blood sugar level
高行健	Gao Xingjian (1940-), Chinese novelist and Nobel laureate, author of Soul Mountain 靈山|灵山
高街	high street (main street of a town or city) (loanword)
高要區	Gaoyao, a district of Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
高見	wise opinion; brilliant idea (honorific)
高視闊步	to strut about
高調	high-sounding speech; bombast; high-profile
高談闊論	to harangue; loud arrogant talk; to spout
高論	enlightening remarks (honorific); brilliant views
高貲	high cost
高貴	grandeur; noble
高貴雞	(Tw) (slang) snobbish, pretentious gay person
高質量	high quality
高起	to rise high; to spring up
高超	excellent; superlative
高足	honorific: Your distinguished disciple; Your most brilliant pupil
高跟鞋	high-heeled shoes
高蹈	to travel far
高蹺	stilts; walking on stilts as component of folk dance
高蹺鷸	(bird species of China) stilt sandpiper (Calidris himantopus)
高辛氏	one of the five legendary emperors, also called 嚳|喾[Ku4]
高迪	Antoni Gaudí (1852-1926), Catalan architect
高通公司	Qualcomm
高速	high speed; expressway (abbr. for 高速公路[gao1 su4 gong1 lu4])
高速公路	expressway; highway; freeway
高速擋	top gear; high gear
高速率	high speed
高速網絡	high speed network
高速緩存	(computing) cache
高速緩衝存儲器	(computing) cache
高速路	highway; expressway (abbr. for 高速公路[gao1 su4 gong1 lu4])
高逼格	(slang) high-end; classy
高達	Gundam, Japanese animation franchise; (Tw) Gouda (cheese)
高遠	lofty
高遷	promotion (honorific)
高邁	exuberant; outstanding; in advanced years
高邑縣	Gaoyi, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
高郵市	Gaoyou, a county-level city in Yangzhou City 揚州市|扬州市[Yang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
高鄰	distinguished neighbor (honorific)
高錳酸鉀	potassium permanganate
高鐵	high speed rail
高鐵血紅蛋白	methemoglobin
高閣	tall building; high shelf
高院	high court
高陵區	Gaoling, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
高陽	Gao Yang (1926-1992), Taiwanese historical novelist
高陽縣	Gaoyang, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
高階	high level
高階語言	(computing) high-level language (Tw, HK, Macau)
高雄	Kaohsiung, a special municipality in south Taiwan
高雄市	Kaohsiung or Gaoxiong city in south Taiwan
高雅	dainty; elegance; elegant
高難	extremely difficult; hard and dangerous; challenging
高雲	Gao Yun (died 409) emperor of Northern or Later Yan dynasty
高露潔	Colgate (brand)
高青縣	Gaoqing, a county in Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
高靿	(of boots, socks etc) long; high; tall
高音	high pitch; soprano; treble
高音喇叭	tweeter
高音部	soprano part
高頭	higher authority; the bosses; on top of
高頭大馬	(idiom) tall, imposing horse; (of a person) tall and well-built
高頻	high frequency
高額	high quota; large amount
高風亮節	of noble character and unquestionable integrity (idiom)
高風峻節	a high-class upright character (idiom)
高風險	high risk
高飛	Goofy (friend of Mickey Mouse)
高體鰟鮍	Rhodeus ocellatus (small carp)
高高低低	high and low; uneven (in height); uneven (of ground)
高高在上	(idiom) situated high; aloft
高高手	Please do not be too severe on me!
高高手兒	Please do not be too severe on me!
高高興興	cheerful and optimistic; in a good mood; gaily
高麗	Korean Goryeo dynasty, 918-1392
高麗八萬大藏經	Tripitaka Koreana, Buddhist scriptures carved on 81,340 wooden tablets and housed in the Haein Temple 海印寺[Hai3 yin4 si4] in South Gyeongsang province of South Korea
高麗參	Koryo ginseng
高麗大藏經	Tripitaka Koreana, Buddhist scriptures carved on 81,340 wooden tablets and housed in the Haein Temple 海印寺[Hai3 yin4 si4] in South Gyeongsang province of South Korea
高麗朝	Korean Goryeo dynasty, 918-1392
高麗棒子	Korean (derog.)
高麗王朝	Korean Goryeo Dynasty, 918-1392
高麗菜	cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata) (CL:顆|颗[ke1])
高齡	elderly
髟	hair; shaggy
髡	scalping; to make the head bald (as corporal punishment)
髣	seemingly
髦	bang (hair); fashionable; mane
髧	long hair
髫	(literary) hair hanging down in front (children's hairstyle)
髭	mustache
髮	hair; Taiwan pr. [fa3]
髮乳	hair cream
髮冠卷尾	(bird species of China) hair-crested drongo (Dicrurus hottentottus)
髮包	bun hair extension
髮卡	hair grip; hair clip
髮圈	scrunchie
髮型	hairstyle; coiffure; hairdo
髮型師	hair stylist
髮型設計師	hairstylist
髮夾	hair clip
髮妻	first wife
髮小	(dialect) close childhood friend whom one grew up with
髮尾	hair ends
髮屋	barbershop
髮帶	headband
髮廊	hair salon; hairdresser's shop
髮式	hairstyle; coiffure; hairdo
髮指眥裂	hair standing up and eyes wide in anger (idiom); enraged
髮捲	hair roller; curl (of hair)
髮旋	hair whorl
髮梢	hair ends
髮箍	headband
髮簪	hairpin
髮絲	hair (on the head)
髮網	hairnet
髮綹	tresses; dreadlocks
髮腳	a length of hair
髮膠	hair gel
髮菜	long thread moss (Nostoc flagelliforme), an edible algae
髮蠟	pomade
髮辮	braid
髮量	hair volume
髮釵	hair clip
髮際線	(one's) hairline
髮髻	hair worn in a bun or coil
髯	beard; whiskers
髯口	artificial beard worn by Chinese opera actors
髯鬚	beard; whiskers
髲	a wig
髳	bang (hair); fashionable; mane
髴	(female) head ornament
髹	red lacquer; to lacquer
髺	hair rolled up in a bun
髻	hair rolled up in a bun, topknot
髽	dress the hair
髾	tail of a comet; long hair
鬁	bald; scabby
鬃	bristles; horse's mane
鬃毛	mane
鬄	wig; Taiwan pr. [ti4]
鬅	disheveled
鬆	loose; to loosen; to relax
鬆一口氣	to heave a sigh of relief
鬆動	loose; slack; (fig.) to soften (policies, tone of voice)
鬆口	to let go of sth held in one's mouth; (fig.) to relent; to yield
鬆土	to plow (loosen the soil)
鬆垮	undisciplined; loose; slack
鬆弛	to relax; relaxed; limp
鬆弛法	relaxation (alternative medicine)
鬆快	less crowded; relieved; relaxed
鬆懈	to relax; to relax efforts; to slack off
鬆手	to relinquish one's grip; to let go
鬆散	to relax; loose; not consolidated
鬆氣	to relax one's efforts
鬆泛	relaxed
鬆獅犬	Chow Chow (dog breed)
鬆糕	steamed rice cake made from glutinous rice flour, soft and fluffy in texture
鬆糕鞋	platform shoes
鬆綁	to untie; (fig.) to ease restrictions
鬆緊帶	(a length of) elastic
鬆緩	to loosen
鬆脫	loose; flaking
鬆軟	flexible; not rigid; spongy
鬆開	to release; to let go; to loosen
鬆餅	muffin; pancake; (Tw) waffle
鬈	to curl; curled
鬉	disheveled hair; horse's mane
鬋	to hang down (hair)
鬍	beard; mustache; whiskers
鬍匪	bandit (old)
鬍子	beard; mustache or whiskers; facial hair
鬍碴	beard stubble; Taiwan pr. [hu2 cha2]
鬍茬	beard stubble
鬍髭	beard and mustache
鬍鬚	beard
鬎	bald; scabby
鬏	bun (of hair)
鬐	dorsal fins; horse's mane
鬑	hanging temple hair
鬒	bushy black hair
鬒髮	luxuriant black hair
鬖	wild hair
鬗	head ornaments; pretty hair
鬘	(of woman's hair) beautiful; flower garland worn as an ornament
鬙	short hair; unkempt
鬚	beard; mustache; feeler (of an insect etc)
鬚子	feelers (zoology); tassel (botany)
鬚後水	aftershave
鬚根	fibrous root
鬚毛	whiskers; mustache
鬚浮鷗	(bird species of China) whiskered tern (Chlidonias hybrida)
鬚眉	man or men (formal)
鬚髮	hair and beard
鬚鯨	baleen whale; Mysticeti
鬟	a knot of hair on top of head
鬠	to make a top knot
鬢	temples; hair on the temples
鬢毛	hair on the temples
鬢角	sideburns; temples; hair on the temples
鬢髮	hair on the temples
鬣	bristles; mane
鬣毛	mane
鬣狗	hyena
鬣蜥	iguana
鬥	to fight; to struggle; to condemn
鬥口齒	to quarrel; to bicker; glib repartee
鬥嘴	to quarrel; to bicker; glib repartee
鬥地主	dou dizhu ("fight the landlord") (card game)
鬥士	warrior; activist
鬥志	will to fight; fighting spirit
鬥志昂揚	having high fighting spirit
鬥批改	struggle, criticize, and transform (Cultural Revolution catchcry)
鬥拳	boxing
鬥智	battle of wits
鬥毆	to brawl; to scuffle
鬥氣	to have a grudge against
鬥爭	a struggle; fight; battle
鬥爭性	assertiveness; combative nature
鬥牛	bullfighting
鬥牛㹴	bull terrier
鬥牛士	matador; toreador; bullfighter
鬥牛士之歌	Toreador Song (Votre toast, je peux vous le rendre), famous aria from opera Carmen 卡門|卡门 by Georges Bizet
鬥私批修	fight self-interest and repudiate revisionism (Cultural Revolution slogan)
鬥艦	fighting ship
鬥雞	cock fighting
鬥雞眼	cross-eye
鬥雞走馬	cock-fighting and horse-racing (idiom); to gamble
鬥魚	betta fish; Siamese fighting fish (Betta splendens)
鬧	noisy; cacophonous; to make noise
鬧事	to cause trouble; to create a disturbance
鬧僵	(of a relationship or situation) to become strained and tense
鬧劇	farce
鬧區	(Tw) busy commercial district; downtown area
鬧哄哄	clamorous; noisy; sensational
鬧場	gongs and drums overture to a Chinese opera; to create a disturbance
鬧大	(of a person) to make a big fuss about (sth); to make a big deal of
鬧太套	(Internet slang) transcription of "not at all" – English words in a song promoting the 2008 Beijing Olympics sung by Huang Xiaoming 黃曉明|黄晓明[Huang2 Xiao3 ming2], who became a laughing stock in China because his pronunciation was perceived as embarrassingly bad
鬧市	downtown area; city center
鬧市區	busy commercial district; downtown area
鬧彆扭	to be difficult with sb; to provoke disagreement; at loggerheads
鬧心	to be vexed or annoyed; to feel queasy
鬧忙	(dialect) bustling; lively
鬧情緒	to be in a bad mood
鬧掰	(dialect) to have a falling-out (with sb)
鬧洞房	disturbing the privacy of bridal room (Chinese custom where guests banter with and play pranks on the newlyweds)
鬧熱	(dialect) bustling; lively
鬧猛	(dialect) bustling; lively
鬧矛盾	to be at loggerheads; to have a falling out
鬧笑話	to make a fool of oneself
鬧糊糊	to cause trouble
鬧翻	to have a falling out; to have a big argument
鬧翻天	to create a big disturbance
鬧肚子	(coll.) to have diarrhea
鬧脾氣	to get angry
鬧著玩兒	to play games; to joke around; to play a joke on sb
鬧賊	(coll.) to be burglarized
鬧鈴	alarm bell (on a clock or phone)
鬧鈴時鐘	alarm clock
鬧鐘	alarm clock
鬧騰	to disturb; to create confusion; to make a din
鬧鬧攘攘	to create an uproar
鬧鬼	haunted
鬨	tumult; uproar; commotion
鬩	to argue; to quarrel
鬫	to roar; to growl
鬮	lots (to be drawn); lot (in a game of chance)
鬯	a kind of sacrificial wine used in ancient times
鬱	(bound form) (of vegetation) lush; luxuriant
鬱卒	(Tw) depressed and frustrated (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [ut-tsut])
鬱南縣	Yunan, a county in Yunfu City 雲浮市|云浮市[Yun2 fu2 Shi4], Guangdong
鬱塞	constricted (feeling); pent-up; repressed
鬱悶	gloomy; depressed
鬱江	Yu River
鬱結	to suffer from pent-up frustrations; mental knot; emotional issue
鬱金香	tulip
鬱鬱不得志	soured by the loss of one's hopes
鬱鬱不樂	discontented (idiom)
鬱鬱寡歡	(idiom) depressed; cheerless
鬱鬱蔥蔥	(idiom) (of plants) verdant; lush
鬲	ancient ceramic three-legged vessel used for cooking with cord markings on the outside and hollow legs
鬵	big iron pot; cauldron
鬷	kettle on legs
鬻	to sell, esp. in strained circumstances
鬼	disembodied spirit; ghost; devil
鬼佬	foreigner (Cantonese); Westerner
鬼使神差	demons and gods at work (idiom); unexplained event crying out for a supernatural explanation
鬼剃頭	spot baldness (alopecia areata)
鬼叫	(coll.) to holler; to squawk
鬼名堂	dirty trick; monkey business
鬼哭狼嚎	(idiom) to wail and scream loudly
鬼城	ghost town
鬼壓床	(coll.) sleep paralysis
鬼天氣	awful weather
鬼婆	Caucasian woman (Cantonese)
鬼子	devil (derog. term for foreign invaders)
鬼屋	haunted house
鬼怕惡人	lit. ghosts are afraid of evil too
鬼怪	hobgoblin; bogey; phantom
鬼才	creative genius
鬼才信	who would believe it!; what rubbish!
鬼扯	nonsense; humbug; bunk
鬼扯腿	unable to restrain oneself; pulling and tugging at each other
鬼把戲	sinister plot; dirty trick; cheap trick
鬼探頭	(coll.) sudden emergence of a person or vehicle from a blind spot (esp. into oncoming traffic)
鬼摸腦殼	(idiom) muddled; momentarily confused
鬼故事	ghost story
鬼斧神工	supernaturally fine craft (idiom); the work of the Gods
鬼樓	haunted house
鬼混	to hang around; to fool around; to live aimlessly
鬼火	will-o'-the-wisp; jack-o'-lantern
鬼火綠	(dialect) flaming mad; furious
鬼片	ghost movie
鬼牌	Joker (playing card)
鬼由心生	devils are born in the heart (idiom); fears originate in the mind
鬼畫符	undecipherable handwriting; scribblings; (fig.) hypocritical talk
鬼神	supernatural beings
鬼祟	evil spirit; sneaky; secretive
鬼秤	(coll.) rigged scale (used to deceive customers by displaying incorrect weight)
鬼胎	sinister design; ulterior motive
鬼臉	wry face; to grimace; to pull a face
鬼蜮	treacherous person; evil spirit
鬼蝠魟	manta ray, esp. giant oceanic manta ray (Mobula birostris)
鬼話	lie; false words; nonsense
鬼話連篇	to tell one lie after another (idiom); to talk nonsense; bogus story
鬼迷心竅	to be obsessed; to be possessed
鬼遮眼	selective blindness caused by a ghost, whereby one fails to notice obvious dangers
鬼針	beggarticks (genus Bidens)
鬼針草	beggarticks (Bidens pilosa)
鬼門關	the gates of hell
鬼頭鬼腦	sneaky; furtive
鬼馬	(originally Cantonese) impish; playful; quirky
鬼鬼祟祟	(idiom) sneaky; secretive; furtive
鬼魂	ghost
鬼魅	demon; evil spirit
鬼魔	demon
鬼鴞	(bird species of China) boreal owl (Aegolius funereus)
魁	chief; head; outstanding
魁偉	tall and big; stalwart
魁元	brightest and best; chief; first among peers
魁北克	Quebec province, Canada
魁北克市	Quebec city, capital of Quebec province of Canada
魁星	stars of the Big Dipper that constitute the rectangular body of the dipper
魁星閣	temple to Kuixing, Daoist God of fate
魁梧	tall and sturdy
魁蚶	arc clam (Arca inflata)
魁首	chief; first; brightest and best
魂	soul; spirit; immortal soul (that can be detached from the body)
魂不守舍	to be preoccupied (idiom); to be inattentive
魂不附體	lit. body and soul separated (idiom); fig. scared out of one's wits
魂牽夢縈	(idiom) to miss very much; to yearn for
魂靈	soul; mind; idea
魂飛魄散	lit. the soul flies away and scatters (idiom)
魂魄	soul
魃	drought demon
魄	(literary) soul; mortal soul (i.e. attached to the body)
魄力	courage; daring; boldness
魅	demon; magic; to charm
魅力	charm; fascination; glamor
魅力四射	glamorous; charming; seductive
魅影	phantom (esp. of Western fantasy)
魅惑	to bewitch; to captivate
魆	dim; dark; sudden; surreptitious
魆魆	secretly; surreptitiously
魈	used in 山魈[shan1 xiao1]
魋	Japanese brown bear
魌	mask of a god used in ceremonies to exorcise demons and drive away pestilence
魍	used in 魍魎|魍魉[wang3 liang3]
魍魎	sprites and goblins; monsters and demons
魍魎鬼怪	malevolent spirits
魎	used in 魍魎|魍魉[wang3 liang3]
魏	tower over a palace gateway (old)
魏京生	Wei Jingsheng (1950-), Beijing-based Chinese dissident, imprisoned 1978-1993 and 1995-1997, released to the US in 1997
魏伯陽	Wei Boyang (c. 100-170), Chinese author and alchemist
魏國	Wei State (407-225 BC), one of the Seven Hero States of the Warring States 戰國七雄|战国七雄
魏巍	Wei Wei (1920–2008), novelist and poet, author of award-winning novel The Orient 東方|东方[Dong1 fang1] about the Korean war
魏徵	Wei Zheng (580-643), Tang politician and historian, notorious as a critic, editor of History of the Sui Dynasty 隋書|隋书
魏德邁	Wedemeyer (name)
魏忠賢	Wei Zhongxian (1568-1627), infamous eunuch politician of late Ming
魏收	Wei Shou (506-572), writer and historian of Northern dynasty Qi 北齊|北齐[Bei3 Qi2], compiler of History of Wei of the Northern dynasties 魏書|魏书[Wei4 shu1]
魏文帝	Cao Pi 曹丕, emperor of Wei 220-226
魏晉	Wei (220-265) and Jin (265-420) dynasties
魏晉南北朝	Wei, Jin and North-South dynasties
魏書	History of Wei of the Northern Dynasties, tenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled by Wei Shou 魏收[Wei4 Shou1] in 554 during Northern Qi Dynasty 北齊|北齐[Bei3 Qi2], 114 scrolls
魏格納	Alfred Wegener (1880-1930), German meteorologist and geophysicist, the originator of the theory of continental drift
魏源	Wei Yuan (1794-1857), Qing dynasty thinker, historian and scholar
魏瑪	Weimar, Germany
魏縣	Wei County or Weixian, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
魏都區	Weidu, a district of Xuchang City 許昌市|许昌市[Xu3 chang1 Shi4], Henan
魑	used in 魑魅[chi1 mei4]
魑魅	spirits and devils (usually harmful); demons
魑魅魍魎	(idiom) all kinds of malevolent or mischievous spirits
魔	(bound form) evil spirit; devil; (prefix) supernatural; magical
魔像	golem
魔力	magic; magic power
魔咒	(magical) spell; curse
魔女	witch; sorceress; enchantress
魔宮	lit. devils' castle; place occupied by sinister forces
魔宮傳奇	The Name of the Rose, 1986 movie based on the novel by Umberto Eco
魔幻	magical; magic; illusion
魔影	(fig.) specter
魔怔	crazed; possessed; bewitched
魔性	(neologism c. 2014) irresistibly quirky; compelling in its wackiness
魔怪	demons and ghosts; ghouls and bogies
魔戒	The Lord of the Rings by J.R.R. Tolkien 托爾金|托尔金[Tuo1 er3 jin1]
魔掌	the power of sb or sth evil; the clutches (of a bad person etc)
魔改	(slang) to modify in a fantastical way; to modify heavily
魔方	Rubik's cube; magic cube
魔杖	magic wand
魔棒	magic wand
魔法	enchantment; magic
魔法師	magician; wizard; sorcerer
魔爪	Monster (energy drink)
魔獸世界	World of Warcraft (video game)
魔王	devil king; evil person
魔王撒旦	Satan, Devil king
魔窟	lit. nest of devils; place occupied by sinister forces
魔羯座	Capricorn (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
魔術	magic
魔術師	magician
魔術方塊	Rubik's cube; magic cube
魔術棒	magic wand
魔術貼	velcro
魔都	Modu, nickname for Shanghai
魔障	Mara (the demon of temptation)
魔頭	monster; devil
魔鬼	devil
魔鬼島	Devil's Island in French Guiana, a former penal colony (1852-1953)
魔鬼椒	ghost pepper
魔鬼氈	(Tw) Velcro fastener; touch fastener
魔鬼粘	(Tw) Velcro fastener; touch fastener
魔鬼魚	(coll.) ray (esp. manta ray or stingray)
魖	used in 黑魖魖[hei1 xu1 xu1]
魘	to have a nightmare
魘寐	to have a nightmare
魚	fish (CL:條|条[tiao2],尾[wei3])
魚丸	fish ball
魚乾	dried fish
魚刺	fishbone
魚卵	fish eggs; roe
魚叉	harpoon
魚台縣	Yutai, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
魚嘴鞋	open-toed shoe; peep-toe
魚塘	fishpond
魚塭	(Tw) fishpond; fish farm
魚子	fish eggs; roe
魚子醬	caviar
魚尾	fishtail
魚尾板	fishplate (in railway engineering)
魚尾紋	crow's feet
魚峰區	Yufeng, a district of Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
魚排	fish steak
魚死網破	lit. either the fish dies or the net splits
魚水	fish and water (metaphor for an intimate relationship or inseparability)
魚水之歡	the pleasure of close intimacy in a couple (idiom); sexual intercourse
魚水情	close relationship as between fish and water
魚池	fishpond
魚沉雁杳	lit. the fish swam away into the depths, the goose vanished in the distance (idiom)
魚油	fish oil
魚泡	swim bladder (of a fish)
魚津	bubbles (literary)
魚漂	fishing float
魚漿	surimi
魚片	fish fillet; slice of fish meat
魚狗	kingfisher
魚生	sliced raw fish
魚生火，肉生痰，青菜豆腐保平安	fish brings heat, meat brings phlegm, vegetables and tofu keep you healthy
魚目混珠	to pass off fish eyes for pearls
魚種	fingerling
魚竿	fishing rod
魚米之鄉	(lit.) land of fish and rice; (fig.) fertile region
魚粉	fish meal
魚糜	surimi
魚線	fishing line
魚缸	fish tank; fishbowl; aquarium
魚群	shoal of fish
魚翅	shark fin
魚翅湯	shark fin soup
魚翅瓜	spaghetti squash (Cucurbita pepo)
魚肉	flesh of fish; fish and meat; (fig.) victims of oppression
魚肉百姓	to prey on the people
魚肚	fish maw; a food dish made from the swim bladder of fish
魚肚白	fish-belly white (used to describe the dingy light of the dawn sky)
魚肝油	cod liver oil
魚腥草	chameleon plant; fish mint (Houttuynia cordata)
魚腩	soft, tender belly part of a fish (considered a delicacy)
魚與熊掌	lit. the fish and the bear's paw, you can't have both at the same time (idiom, from Mencius); fig. you must choose one or the other
魚與熊掌不可兼得	lit. the fish and the bear's paw, you can't have both at the same time (idiom, from Mencius); fig. you must choose one or the other
魚艙	the fish hold (of a fishing vessel)
魚花	fry; newly hatched fish
魚苗	fry; newly hatched fish
魚薯	fish and chips (abbr. for 炸魚薯條|炸鱼薯条[zha2 yu2 shu3 tiao2])
魚蛋	fish ball; fish eggs; roe
魚蝦	fish and shrimp; aquatic produce
魚蟲	water flea (small crustacean of genus Daphnia)
魚護	(angling) keepnet
魚販	fishmonger
魚貫	one after the other; in single file
魚貫而入	to walk in in a line
魚貫而出	to file out; to walk out in a line
魚鉤	fishhook
魚雷	torpedo
魚雷艇	torpedo boat
魚露	fish sauce
魚頭	fish head; fig. upright and unwilling to compromise
魚類	fishes
魚類學	ichthyology
魚餅	fishcake
魚餌	fish bait
魚香	yuxiang, a seasoning of Chinese cuisine that typically contains garlic, scallions, ginger, sugar, salt, chili peppers etc (Although "yuxiang" literally means "fish fragrance", it contains no seafood.)
魚香肉絲	pork strips stir-fried with yuxiang 魚香|鱼香[yu2 xiang1]
魚骨	fish bone
魚鬆	fish floss; crisp and flaky shredded dried fish
魚鰍	(dialect) see 泥鰍|泥鳅[ni2 qiu5]
魚鰭	fin
魚鰾	swim bladder (of a fish)
魚鱗	fish scales
魚鷹	name used for many fishing birds; cormorant; osprey
魚麗	"fish" battle formation in ancient times: chariots in front, infantry behind
魚麗陣	(archaic) formation of infantrymen led by chariots
魚鼓	percussion instrument in the form of a bamboo fish (traditionally used by Daoist priests)
魚龍	ichthyosaur
魚龍混雜	lit. fish and dragons mixed in together (idiom); fig. crooks mixed in with the honest folk
魛	Coilia ectenes
魟	(bound form) ray (esp. stingray); Taiwan pr. [hong1]
魟魚	ray (esp. stingray)
魠	used in 土魠魚|土𱇏鱼[tu3 tuo1 yu2] and 𩵚魠魚|𬶂𱇏鱼[tu3 tuo1 yu2]
魢	(bound form) fish of genus Girella
魣	perch
魣魚	perch
魦	shark family, including some rays and skates
魨	pufferfish (family Tetraodontidae)
魬	sole or flounder
魯	surname Lu; Lu, an ancient state of China 魯國|鲁国[Lu3 guo2]
魯人	person from Shandong; often refers to Confucius; stupid person
魯佛爾宮	the Louvre
魯凱族	Rukai, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
魯史	History of Kingdom Lu; refers to the Spring and Autumn Annals 春秋
魯君	the lord of Lu (who declined to employ Confucius)
魯國	Lu, vassal state at the time of the Zhou Dynasty 周朝|周朝[Zhou1 chao2], located in the southwest of present-day Shandong 山東|山东[Shan1 dong1], birthplace of Confucius
魯國人	person from Shandong; often refers to Confucius
魯子敬	Lu Zijing or Lu Su 魯肅|鲁肃 (172-217), statesman, diplomat and strategist of Eastern Wu 東吳|东吴
魯山縣	Lushan, a county in Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
魯德維格	Ludwig (name); Ludovic (name)
魯昂	Rouen (France)
魯棒	robust (loanword); solid
魯棒性	robustness
魯汶	Leuven (a town in Belgium famous for its university)
魯爾區	the Ruhr, region in Germany
魯爾河	Ruhr River, a tributary of the Rhine in Germany
魯特啤酒	root beer
魯特琴	(loanword) lute
魯班	Lu Ban, legendary master craftsman, called the father of Chinese carpentry
魯甸縣	Ludian, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
魯米諾	(chemistry) (loanword) luminol
魯肅	Lu Su or Lu Zijing 魯子敬|鲁子敬 (172-217), statesman, diplomat and strategist of Eastern Wu 東吳|东吴
魯莽	hot-headed; impulsive; reckless
魯菜	Shandong cuisine
魯蛇	(Tw) (slang) (loanword) loser
魯賓	Rubin (name)
魯迅	Lu Xun (1881-1936), one of the earliest and best-known modern Chinese writers
魯鈍	stupid; slow on the uptake
魴	bream; Zeus japanicus
魴鮄	(zoology) gurnard; sea robin
魵	shrimp
魷	(bound form) squid
魷釣	squid fishing (typically using lights at night to attract them)
魷魚	squid
魸	catfish
魺	(archaic) blowfish
魾	Bagarius, an Asian genus of catfishes
鮀	catfish; a kind of small fish; Chinese alligator
鮁	(bound form) Spanish mackerel
鮁魚	Japanese Spanish mackerel (Scomberomorus niphonius)
鮁魚圈區	Bayuquan, a district of Yingkou City 營口市|营口市[Ying2 kou3 Shi4], Liaoning
鮃	family of flatfish; sole
鮄	used in 魴鮄|鲂𫚒[fang2 fu2]
鮆	(fish)
鮈	gudgeon (Gobio gobio, a small freshwater fish, or any of various similar or related species)
鮊	culter, a generic term for cyprinid fish of genera Culter and Erythroculter
鮋	scorpionfish
鮍	used in 鰟鮍|鳑鲏[pang2 pi2]; Taiwan pr. [pi1]
鮎	sheatfish (Parasilurus asotus); oriental catfish
鮐	mackerel; Pacific mackerel (Pneumatophorus japonicus)
鮑	surname Bao
鮑勃·伍德沃德	Bob Woodward (Washington Post journalist)
鮑勃·馬利	Bob Marley (1945-1981), Jamaican reggae musician and activist
鮑威爾	Powell (name)
鮑德里亞	Jean Baudrillard (1929-2007), French cultural theorist and philosopher
鮑狄埃	Eugène Edine Pottier (1816-1887), French revolutionary socialist and poet
鮑羅丁	Borodin (name)
鮑羅廷	Borodin (name)
鮑耶	János Bolyai (1802–1860), Hungarian mathematician, one of the founders of non-Euclidean geometry
鮑魚	abalone
鮒	silver carp
鮓	salted fish
鮚	oyster
鮞	caviar; fish roe
鮟	used in 鮟鱇|𩽾𩾌[an1 kang1]; Taiwan pr. [an4]
鮟鱇	anglerfish
鮠	a kind of shad with a head like a sturgeon
鮡	fish of family Sisoridae (Asiatic catfishes)
鮣	shark sucker (Echeneis naucrates)
鮦	snakefish
鮨	sushi; grouper (Portuguese: garoupa); Epinephelus septemfasciatus
鮨科	the grouper family
鮪	little tuna; Euthynnus alletteratus
鮪魚	(Tw) tuna
鮪魚肚	(cuisine) tuna belly; (Tw) (fig.) (coll.) potbelly; paunch
鮫	(bound form) shark
鮫人	fish-like person in Chinese folklore whose tears turn into pearls
鮫魚	(archaic) shark
鮭	trout; salmon
鮭魚	salmon; trout
鮮	fresh; bright (in color); delicious
鮮亮	bright (color); vivid
鮮剝	(of fruit, prawns etc) freshly peeled; Taiwan pr. [xian1bo1]
鮮卑	Xianbei or Xianbi, group of northern nomadic peoples
鮮卑族	Xianbei or Xianbi, historic ethnic group of northern nomads
鮮味	umami, one of the five basic tastes (cookery)
鮮啤酒	draft beer; unpasteurized beer
鮮奶	fresh milk
鮮奶油	cream; whipped cream
鮮少	very few; rarely
鮮明	(of colors) bright; fresh and clear; clear-cut; distinct
鮮明個性	individuality; clear-cut personality
鮮果	fresh fruit
鮮橙多	Xianchengduo, Chinese brand of orange-flavored soft drink
鮮活	vivid; lively; (of food ingredients) live or fresh
鮮活貨物	live cargo
鮮為人知	rarely known to anyone (idiom); almost unknown
鮮烈	fresh and intense; vivid
鮮紅	scarlet; bright red
鮮美	fresh and delicious; tasty
鮮花	flower; fresh flowers
鮮花插在牛糞上	lit. a bunch of flowers poked into a pile of manure
鮮菜	fresh vegetable
鮮血	blood
鮮血淋漓	(idiom) drenched with blood; dripping with blood
鮮見	rare; rarely seen
鮮豔	bright-colored; gaily-colored
鮮貨	produce; fresh fruits and vegetables; fresh aquatic food
鮶	Sebastodes guntheri
鮸	Sciaena albiflora; otolithoidesmiiuy
鮻	redlip mullet (Planiliza haematocheilus)
鮿	(fresh-water fish)
鯀	Gun, mythical father of Yu the Great 大禹[Da4 Yu3]
鯁	to choke on a piece of food
鯁喉	to choke on a piece of food etc
鯄	Lepidotrigla strauchi
鯆	the skate or ray
鯇	grass carp
鯈	Leuciscus macropus
鯉	carp
鯉城區	Licheng, a district of Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
鯉魚	carp
鯉魚打挺	(martial arts, gymnastics) to kip up (spring upright from supine without hands)
鯉魚旗	koinobori, a Japanese carp-shaped windsock flown to celebrate Children's Day
鯉魚跳龍門	to make a significant advance in one's career (idiom)
鯊	shark
鯊魚	shark
鯔	mullet
鯔魚	flathead grey mullet (Mugil cephalus)
鯔魚頭	mullet (hairstyle)
鯕	used in 鯕鰍|鲯鳅[qi2 qiu1]
鯕鰍	mahi-mahi; dorado (Coryphaena hippurus)
鯖	(literary) boiled stew of fish and meat
鯖魚	mackerel
鯗	dried fish
鯗魚	dried fish
鯙	Scomberomorus sinensis
鯛	porgy; pagrus major
鯛魚	porgy; sea bream (family Sparidae); (Tw) tilapia
鯛魚燒	taiyaki, Japanese-style waffle made with a fish-shaped mold, typically filled with a sweet bean paste
鯝	Xenocypris, genus of cyprinid fish found in eastern Asia
鯡	Pacific herring
鯡魚	herring
鯢	Cryptobranchus japonicus; salamander
鯤	fry (newly hatched fish)
鯤鵬	kun 鯤|鲲[kun1] and peng 鵬|鹏[Peng2], mythological beasts
鯤鵬展翅	lit. the giant Peng bird spreads its wings and begins to fly
鯥	Pomatomus saltatrix; bluefish
鯧魚	silvery pomfret; butterfish
鯨	whale
鯨波	huge wave or breaker
鯨目	Cetacea (whale family)
鯨落	whale fall
鯨豚	cetacean
鯨頭鸛	shoebill stork (Balaeniceps rex)
鯨魚	whale
鯨魚座	Cetus (constellation)
鯨鯊	whale shark (Rhincodon typus)
鯪	mud carp (Cirrhina molitorella)
鯪鯉	pangolin (Manis pentadactylata); scaly ant-eater
鯪鯉甲	pangolin (Manis pentadactylata); scaly ant-eater
鯪鯉科	the pangolin family
鯫	minnows; small fish
鯮	long spiky-head carp
鯰	sheatfish (Parasilurus asotus); oriental catfish
鯰魚	catfish
鯷	anchovy
鯷魚	anchovy
鯸	blowfish
鯽	bastard carp; sand perch
鯽魚	crucian carp
鯿	bream
鯿魚	white Amur bream (Parabramis pekinensis)
鰁	fish of genus Sarcocheilichthys (a genus of cyprinid fishes found in eastern Asia)
鰂	cuttlefish
鰅	a kind of striped fish
鰆魚	Japanese Spanish mackerel (Scomberomorus niphonius)
鰈	flatfish; flounder; sole
鰈片	filleted plaice
鰈魚	flounder; plaice
鰈鮫	sturgeon
鰈鶼	harmonious and affectionate couple
鰉	sturgeon
鰋	mudfish
鰍	loach (family Cobitidae)
鰏	the ponyfishes, aka slipmouths (Leiognathidae, a family of fishes in the order Perciformes)
鰒	Haliotis gigantea; sea ear
鰓	gills of fish
鰓弓	visceral arch (gill-bearing arch or its vestigial crease on sides of neck of vertebrates)
鰓裂	gill slit (in fish)
鰜	flounder; flatfish
鰟	used in 鰟鮍|鳑鲏[pang2 pi2]
鰟鮍	bitterling (fish of genus Rhodeus)
鰣	used in 鰣魚|鲥鱼[shi2 yu2]
鰣魚	Reeves shad (Tenualosa reevesii)
鰤	yellowtail (Seriola qinqueradiata)
鰥	widower
鰥夫	old wifeless man; bachelor; widower
鰥寡孤獨	(lit.) widowers, widows, orphans and the childless (idiom)
鰥居	to live as a widower
鰦	(archaic) a kind of black fish; bad person (Cantonese slang)
鰨	sole (fish)
鰩	ray (cartilaginous fish, including skates)
鰩魚	skate (cartilaginous fish of the family Rajidae); (coll.) ray (fish)
鰫	bighead carp
鰭	fin
鰭狀肢	flipper
鰮	sardine
鰱	Hypophthalmichthys moritrix
鰱魚	silver carp
鰲	mythological sea turtle
鰲抃	(literary) elated and excited; overjoyed
鰲背負山	debt as heavy as a mountain on a turtle's back
鰳	Chinese herring (Ilisha elongata); white herring; slender shad
鰵	cod
鰶	Konosirus punctatus
鰷	Korean sharpbelly (fish, Hemiculter leucisculus); chub
鰹	bonito
鰺	carangid (zoology)
鰻	(bound form) eel (Anguilla japonica)
鰻魚	eel
鰻鱺	eel; Japanese freshwater eel (Anguilla japonica)
鰼	loach; mudfish
鰽	herring
鰾	swim bladder; air bladder of fish
鰾膠	isinglass; fish glue
鱄	fish (meaning variable: mackerel, anchovy, fresh-water fish)
鱅魚	bighead carp; Hypophthalmichthys nobilis
鱆	octopus
鱇	used in 鮟鱇|𩽾𩾌[an1 kang1]
鱈	codfish; Gadus macrocephalus
鱈魚	cod
鱉	softshell turtle
鱉甲	turtle shell
鱉裙	the edible gelatinous fringe of a softshell turtle's carapace
鱉邊	(dialect) the edible gelatinous fringe of a softshell turtle's carapace
鱎	culter (cyprinid fish of genus Culter or Erythroculter); (esp.) Culter alburnus
鱐	dried fish
鱒	trout; barbel; Taiwan pr. [zun4]
鱒魚	trout
鱔	Chinese yellow eel
鱔魚	eel
鱖	mandarin fish; Chinese perch (Siniperca chuatsi)
鱖魚	mandarin fish; Chinese perch (Siniperca chuatsi)
鱗	scales (of fish, snakes etc)
鱗傷	cuts and bruises like fish scales; terribly cut up
鱗喉綠啄木鳥	(bird species of China) streak-throated woodpecker (Picus xanthopygaeus)
鱗次櫛比	row upon row
鱗片	scale (of fish, reptiles etc)
鱗狀	scaly; squamous
鱗狀細胞癌	squamous cell carcinoma
鱗甲	scale; plate of armor
鱗翅	scaly wing
鱗翅目	Lepidoptera (insect order including butterflies 蝶類|蝶类 and moths 蛾類|蛾类)
鱗胸鷦鶥	(bird species of China) scaly-breasted cupwing; scaly-breasted wren-babbler (Pnoepyga albiventer)
鱗腹綠啄木鳥	(bird species of China) scaly-bellied woodpecker (Picus squamatus)
鱗莖	(botany) bulb
鱘	sturgeon; Acipenser sturio
鱘魚	sturgeon
鱝	any ray (fish) variety of Myliobatiformes order
鱟	horseshoe crab
鱟魚	horseshoe crab (Tachypleus tridentatus)
鱠	used in 鱠魚|鲙鱼[kuai4 yu2]; minced or diced fish (variant of 膾|脍[kuai4])
鱠魚	Chinese herring (Ilisha elongata)
鱣	sturgeon (old); Acipenser micadoi
鱤	yellowcheek (Elopichthys bambusa)
鱥	minnow
鱧	snakefish; snakehead mullet
鱧魚	blotched snakehead (Channa maculata)
鱨	Bagridae (catfish family)
鱭	Coilia nasus
鱮	Hypophthalmichthys moritrix
鱯	a species of freshwater catfish
鱲	minnow
鱵	Hyporhampus sajuri
鱷	(bound form) alligator; crocodile
鱷梨	avocado (Persea americana)
鱷梨醬	guacamole
鱷蜥	Chinese crocodile lizard (Shinisaurus crocodilurus)
鱷魚	alligator; crocodile (CL:條|条[tiao2])
鱷魚夾	crocodile clip; spring clip
鱷魚眼淚	crocodile tears
鱷龍	Champsosaurus
鱷龜	snapping turtle
鱸	common perch; bass
鱸魚	bass; perch
鱸鰻	(Tw) giant mottled eel (Anguilla marmorata), aka swamp eel or marbled eel
鱺	used in 鰻鱺|鳗鲡[man2 li2]
鱻	fish
鳥	bird; "bird" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 196)
鳥不拉屎	(lit.) (a place where) birds don't defecate
鳥不生蛋	(lit.) (a place where) birds don't lay eggs
鳥事	damn thing; (not one's) goddamn business
鳥人	(vulgar) damned wretch; fucker; also pr. [niao3 ren2]
鳥兒	bird
鳥叔	nickname of Korean singer PSY
鳥嘌呤	guanine nucleotide (G, pairs with cytosine C 胞嘧啶 in DNA and RNA)
鳥嘴	beak
鳥尾蛤	cockle (mollusk of the family Cardiidae)
鳥居	torii (gateway of a Shinto shrine) (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 鳥居 "torii")
鳥屋	birdhouse
鳥巢	bird's nest; nickname for Beijing 2008 Olympic stadium
鳥擊	bird strike (aviation)
鳥槍	flintlock musket; fowling piece (shotgun); air gun
鳥槍換炮	bird shotgun replaced by cannon (idiom); equipment improved enormously
鳥機	fowling piece (archaic gun)
鳥澡盆	birdbath
鳥獸	birds and beasts; fauna
鳥獸散	to scatter like birds and beasts
鳥疫	ornithosis
鳥疫衣原體	Chlamydia ornithosis
鳥盡弓藏	lit. the birds are over, the bow is put away (idiom); fig. to get rid of sb once he has served his purpose
鳥瞰	to get a bird's-eye view; bird's-eye view; broad overview
鳥瞰圖	bird's-eye view
鳥禽	bird
鳥窩	bird's nest
鳥篆	bird characters (a decorated form of the Great Seal)
鳥籠	birdcage
鳥糞	guano; bird excrement
鳥羽	pinion
鳥胺酸	(Tw) ornithine
鳥腳下目	Ornithopoda, suborder of herbivorous dinosaurs including iguanodon
鳥腳亞目	Ornithopoda (suborder of herbivorous dinosaurs)
鳥苷酸二鈉	disodium guanylate (E627)
鳥蛤	cockle (mollusk of the family Cardiidae)
鳥蟲書	bird writing, a calligraphic style based on seal script 篆書|篆书[zhuan4 shu1], but with characters decorated as birds and insects
鳥語花香	lit. birdsong and fragrant flowers (idiom); fig. the intoxication of a beautiful spring day
鳥道	a road only a bird can manage; steep dangerous road
鳥銃	bird gun
鳥雀	bird
鳥類	birds
鳥類學	ornithology; study of birds
鳥鳴	birdsong; warbling
鳦	a swallow (bird)
鳧	mallard; Anas platyrhyncha
鳧水	to swim
鳧翁	watercock (Gallicrex cinerea)
鳩	turtledove; (literary) to gather
鳩山	Hatoyama, Japanese name and place name
鳩山由紀夫	Hatoyama Yukio (1947-), Japanese Democratic Party politician, prime minister 2009-2010
鳩摩羅什	Kumarajiva c. 334-413, Buddhist monk and translator of Zen texts
鳩江區	Jiujiang, a district of Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
鳩鴿	dove
鳲	turtledove
鳳	surname Feng
鳳仙花	balsam; Balsaminaceae (a flower family including Impatiens balsamina)
鳳凰	phoenix
鳳凰古城	Fenghuang Ancient Town, in Fenghuang County, Xiangxi Prefecture, Hunan, added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List in 2008 in the Cultural category
鳳凰城	Phoenix, capital of Arizona; also 菲尼克斯[Fei1 ni2 ke4 si1]
鳳凰座	Phoenix (constellation)
鳳凰木	royal poinciana (Delonix regia)
鳳凰男	(Internet slang) guy who grew up in the countryside and gained a foothold in the city through hard work
鳳凰縣	Fenghuang, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
鳳凰號	Phoenix, NASA Mars explorer
鳳台縣	Fengtai, a county in Huainan City 淮南市[Huai2 nan2 Shi4], Anhui
鳳城市	Fengcheng, a county-level city in Dandong City 丹東市|丹东市[Dan1 dong1 Shi4], Liaoning
鳳尾竹	fernleaf bamboo (Bambusa multiplex), species of bamboo native to China, suited to hedging and screening
鳳尾船	gondola (Venetian canal boat)
鳳尾蕨	brake (fern of genus Pteris); (esp.) spider fern (Pteris multifida)
鳳尾魚	anchovy
鳳山市	Fengshan city in Taiwan
鳳山縣	Fengshan, a county in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
鳳岡縣	Fenggang, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
鳳慶縣	Fengqing, a county in Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
鳳梨	pineapple
鳳梨可樂達	piña colada
鳳梨園	pineapple plantation; piña colada
鳳梨酥	pineapple cake, traditional Taiwanese sweet pastry
鳳梨釋迦	atemoya, hybrid of the cherimoya (Annona cherimola) and the sugar apple (Annona squamosa): a tree grown in tropical regions of the Americas and in Taiwan for its edible fruit
鳳毛麟角	lit. as rare as phoenix feathers and unicorn horns (idiom)
鳳泉區	Fengquan, a district of Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
鳳爪	(cuisine) chicken foot
鳳眼	elegant, almond-shaped eyes with the inner canthus pointing down and the outer canthus up, like the eye of a phoenix
鳳眼蘭	water hyacinth
鳳縣	Feng County or Fengxian, a county in Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
鳳翔區	Fengxiang, a district of Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
鳳蝶	swallowtail butterfly
鳳蝶科	family Papilionidae (taxonomy)
鳳陽縣	Fengyang, a county in Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
鳳頭樹燕	(bird species of China) crested treeswift (Hemiprocne coronata)
鳳頭潛鴨	(bird species of China) tufted duck (Aythya fuligula)
鳳頭百靈	(bird species of China) crested lark (Galerida cristata)
鳳頭蜂鷹	(bird species of China) crested honey buzzard (Pernis ptilorhynchus)
鳳頭雀嘴鵯	(bird species of China) crested finchbill (Spizixos canifrons)
鳳頭雀鶯	(bird species of China) crested tit-warbler (Leptopoecile elegans)
鳳頭鵐	(bird species of China) crested bunting (Emberiza lathami)
鳳頭鷹	(bird species of China) crested goshawk (Accipiter trivirgatus)
鳳頭鷹雕	(bird species of China) changeable hawk-eagle; crested hawk-eagle (Nisaetus cirrhatus)
鳳頭鷿鷈	(bird species of China) great crested grebe (Podiceps cristatus)
鳳頭鸚鵡	cockatoo (zoology)
鳳頭麥雞	(bird species of China) northern lapwing (Vanellus vanellus)
鳳體	(archaic) empress's body; empress's physical condition
鳴	to cry (of birds, animals and insects); to make a sound
鳴不平	to cry out against injustice; to protest unfairness
鳴冤叫屈	to complain bitterly
鳴叫	to emit a sound; (of birds, insects etc) to chirp, hoot etc
鳴哨	to blow a whistle
鳴槍	to fire warning shots
鳴禽	songbird
鳴笛	to hoot; to whistle
鳴號	to sound the horn; to honk
鳴角鴞	Screech-owl (genus Megascops, a.k.a. Otus)
鳴謝	to express gratitude (esp. in public); vote of thanks
鳴金	to beat a gong; to sound the retreat
鳴金收兵	to beat the gong to recall troops (idiom); to order a retreat
鳴鐘	to toll a bell
鳴鑼	to beat a gong
鳴鑼開道	to beat the gong to clear the way; (fig.) to pave the way for sth
鳴鳥	songbird
鳴鳩	turtledove
鳶	kite (small hawk)
鳶尾	Iricdaceae, the iris family
鳶尾花	iris (family Iridaceae)
鳷	general term for jay; Garrulus lidthi
鳻	the wild pigeon
鳽	(used in naming bitterns and several other species of heron)
鳾	nuthatch (bird of genus Sitta)
鴂	tailorbird (Orthotomus spp.); weaver bird (family Ploceidae); cuckoo
鴃	shrike
鴄	wild duck
鴆	legendary bird whose feathers can be used as poison; poisonous
鴆羽	the poisonous feathers of the legendary bird Zhen 鴆|鸩
鴇	Chinese bustard; procuress
鴇母	female brothel keeper; a bawd
鴉	crow
鴉嘴卷尾	(bird species of China) crow-billed drongo (Dicrurus annectens)
鴉片	(loanword) opium
鴉片戰爭	the Opium War (1839–1842); the Opium Wars (1839–1842 and 1856–1860)
鴉片槍	opium pipe
鴉雀無聲	lit. crow and peacock make no sound
鴒	used in 鶺鴒|鹡鸰[ji2 ling2]
鴔	used in 鵖鴔|𱉝𫛡[bi1 fu2]
鴕	ostrich
鴕鳥	ostrich
鴕鳥政策	ostrich policy (sticking one's head in the sand, failing to acknowledge danger)
鴗	Alcedo bengalensis
鴛	mandarin duck
鴛綺	magnificent fabrics
鴛鴦	(bird species of China) mandarin duck (Aix galericulata)
鴛鴦戲水	lit. mandarin ducks playing in the water; fig. to make love
鴛鴦浴	taking a bath together as a couple
鴛鴦蝴蝶	Mandarin ducks and butterfly (i.e. love birds)
鴛鴦蝴蝶派	Mandarin ducks and butterfly (i.e. love birds) literary school around 1900, criticized as populist and romantic by socialist realists
鴛鴦鍋	"mandarin ducks" pot (hot pot with a divider, containing spicy soup on one side, mild soup on the other)
鴜	(a kind of waterbird)
鴝	(bound form, used in the names of various kinds of bird, esp. robins and redstarts)
鴝姬鶲	(bird species of China) mugimaki flycatcher (Ficedula mugimaki)
鴝岩鷚	(bird species of China) robin accentor (Prunella rubeculoides)
鴝蝗鶯	(bird species of China) Savi's warbler (Locustella luscinioides)
鴞	owl (order Strigiformes)
鴞叫	(of owls) to hoot or screech
鴞鸚鵡	kakapo (Strigops habroptila); owl parrot
鴟	scops owl
鴟甍	a kind of ornament on the roof ridge
鴟鴞	owl
鴠	a kind of nightingale
鴣	partridge; Francolinus chinensis
鴥	(of a bird) to fly swiftly; to swoop
鴦	used in 鴛鴦|鸳鸯[yuan1 yang1]
鴨	duck (CL:隻|只[zhi1]); (slang) male prostitute
鴨仔蛋	balut (boiled duck egg with a partly-developed embryo, which is eaten from the shell)
鴨嘴獸	platypus
鴨嘴龍	hadrosaur (duck-billed dinosaur)
鴨子	duck (CL:隻|只[zhi1]); (slang) male prostitute
鴨子兒	(coll.) duck's egg
鴨掌	duck foot
鴨梨	Chinese white pear (Pyrus × bretschneideri)
鴨絨	duck down
鴨綠江	Yalu River, forming part of the China-Korea border
鴨舌帽	peaked cap
鴨蛋青	pale blue
鴨霸	(Tw) unreasonable; overbearing; with no regard for others
鴯	used in 鴯鶓|鸸鹋[er2 miao2]
鴯鶓	emu
鴰	used in 老鴰|老鸹[lao3 gua5]
鴳	quail
鴴	plover
鴴科	Charadriidae (plover family)
鴷	woodpecker
鴻	eastern bean goose; great; large
鴻喜菇	beech mushroom (Hypsizygus tessulatus), usually referring to the brown cultivated variety
鴻圖大計	important large scale project
鴻毛泰山	lit. light as a goose feather, heavy as Mt Tai (idiom)
鴻毛泰岱	light as a goose feather, heavy as Mt Tai (idiom); of no consequence to one person, a matter of life or death to another
鴻海	Hon Hai Precision Industry Company, Taiwan technology company, aka Foxconn
鴻溝	(fig.) gulf; chasm; wide gap
鴻臚寺	(archaic) office in charge of ceremony and protocol
鴻蒙	(literary) primordial chaos (the undifferentiated state of the universe before creation)
鴻門宴	Hongmen feast; (fig.) banquet set up with the aim of murdering a guest
鴻雁	(bird species of China) swan goose (Anser cygnoides)
鴻鵠	swan; person with noble aspirations
鴽	quail-like bird
鴿	pigeon; dove
鴿子	pigeon; dove; various birds of the family Columbidae
鴿房	dovecote; enclosure for carrier pigeons
鴿派	dove faction (opposite: 鷹派|鹰派[ying1 pai4], hawks); peace party
鵀	hoopoe
鵁	a kind of aquatic bird
鵂	used in 鵂鶹|鸺鹠[xiu1 liu2]
鵂鶹	collared owlet (Glaucidium brodiei)
鵃	used in 鶻鵃|鹘鸼[gu3 zhou1]
鵏	used in 地鵏|地𬷕[di4 bu3]
鵐	(bound form) bunting (bird of genus Emberiza); also pr. [wu1]
鵑	cuckoo
鵑形目	Cuculiformes, order of birds including cuckoo
鵒	mynah
鵓	woodpidgeon
鵓鳩	turtle dove or similar bird; (esp.) oriental turtle dove (Streptopelia orientalis)
鵓鴣	turtle dove or similar bird
鵓鴿	pigeon
鵖	used in 鵖鴔|𱉝𫛡[bi1 fu2]
鵖鴔	(archaic) hoopoe
鵗	pheasant
鵙	a shrike
鵜	used in 鵜鶘|鹈鹕[ti2 hu2]
鵜鶘	pelican
鵝	goose
鵝卵石	pebble; cobblestone
鵝喉羚	goitered gazelle (Gazella subgutturosa)
鵝掌	goose foot
鵝掌楸	Chinese tulip tree; Liriodendron chinense
鵝毛	goose feather
鵝毛大雪	goose feather snow (idiom); big heavy snow fall
鵝毛筆	quill pen
鵝絨	goose down
鵝肝	foie gras
鵝膏蕈	Amanita (genus of deadly mushrooms)
鵝膏蕈素	amanitin
鵝莓	gooseberry
鵝鑾鼻	Cape Eluanpi or Eluanbi, southernmost point of Taiwan Island
鵟	buzzard (genus Buteo)
鵠	center or bull's eye of an archery target (old); goal; target
鵠候	to respectfully await; to look forward to
鵠的	bull's-eye; target; objective
鵡	used in 鸚鵡|鹦鹉[ying1 wu3]
鵩	owl
鵪	used in 鵪鶉|鹌鹑[an1 chun2]
鵪鶉	quail
鵪鶉餶飿兒	a type of wonton made in a shape similar to that of a quail (in ancient times)
鵫	pheasant
鵬	Peng, large fabulous bird; roc
鵬摶	to strive for greatness
鵬程萬里	the fabled roc flies ten thousand miles (idiom)
鵬鳥	roc (mythical bird of prey); great talent
鵮	(of a bird) to peck; (fig.) to ridicule (sb)
鵯	the Pycnonotidae or bulbul family of birds
鵰	bird of prey
鵰具座	Caelum (constellation)
鵰鴞	(bird species of China) Eurasian eagle-owl (Bubo bubo)
鵲	magpie
鵲巢鳩占	the magpie made a nest, the turtledove dwells in it (idiom)
鵲橋	magpie bridge across the Milky Way between Altair and Vega where Cowherd and Weaving maid 牛郎織女|牛郎织女 are allowed an annual meeting
鵲色鸝	(bird species of China) silver oriole (Oriolus mellianus)
鵲鴝	(bird species of China) oriental magpie-robin (Copsychus saularis)
鵲鴨	(bird species of China) common goldeneye (Bucephala clangula)
鵲鷂	(bird species of China) pied harrier (Circus melanoleucos)
鵵	Scops semitorques
鵷	firebird (mythology)
鵺	a kind of bird similar to pheasant
鵻	snipe; turtle-dove
鵾弦	pipa strings, made from sinews of large crane or swan 鵾雞|鹍鸡[kun1 ji1]
鵾雞	bird mentioned in ancient texts, resembling a crane
鶂	hawk
鶆	used in 鶆䴈|𱉵𬸩[lai2 ao3]
鶆䴈	rhea (bird of genus Rhea)
鶇	thrush (bird of genus Turdus)
鶉	(bound form) quail
鶊	used in 鶬鶊|鸧鹒[cang1 geng1]
鶒	used in 鸂鶒|㶉𫛶[xi1 chi4]
鶓	used in 鴯鶓|鸸鹋[er2 miao2]
鶖鷺	oriole; black drongo (Dicrurus macrocercus)
鶗	a kind of hawk
鶗鴂	large hawk-cuckoo (Cuculus sparverioides)
鶗鴃	large hawk-cuckoo (Cuculus sparverioides)
鶘	used in 鵜鶘|鹈鹕[ti2 hu2]
鶚	(bird species of China) osprey (Pandion haliaetus)
鶡	crossbill; long-tailed pheasant
鶥	babbler (bird)
鶦	pelican
鶩	duck
鶬	used in 鶬鶊|鸧鹒[cang1 geng1]
鶯	oriole or various birds of the Sylvidae family including warblers
鶯歌燕舞	the warbler sings and the swallow dances; prosperity abounds (idiom)
鶯鳥	oriole; bird
鶱	(literary) (adjective) (of birds) flying; soaring
鶲	flycatcher (bird)
鶴	crane
鶴佬人	Hoklo people, southern Chinese people of Taiwan
鶴俸	an official's emolument
鶴嘴鋤	pickax
鶴城區	Hecheng, a district of Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
鶴壁市	Hebi, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
鶴山區	Heshan, a district of Hebi City 鶴壁市|鹤壁市[He4 bi4 Shi4], Henan
鶴山市	Heshan, a county-level city in Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
鶴峰縣	Hefeng, a county in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
鶴崗市	Hegang, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
鶴慶縣	Heqing, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
鶴立雞群	a crane in a flock of chicken (idiom); way above the common
鶴鷸	(bird species of China) spotted redshank (Tringa erythropus)
鶸	siskin
鶹	used in 鵂鶹|鸺鹠[xiu1 liu2]
鶺	used in 鶺鴒|鹡鸰[ji2 ling2]
鶺鴒	wagtail
鶻	used in 鶻鵃|鹘鸼[gu3 zhou1]
鶻鵃	turtledove
鶼	mythical bird with one eye and one wing
鶼鶼	lit. a pair of mythical birds who depend on each other
鶿	used in 鸕鶿|鸬鹚[lu2 ci2]
鷁	a kind of aquatic bird
鷂	sparrow hawk; Accipiter nisus
鷂鱝	bonnet skate (zoology)
鷃	quail-like bird
鷇	fledglings
鷈	used in 鷿鷈|䴙䴘[pi4 ti1]
鷊	pheasant; turkey
鷏	bird name
鷓	partridge; Francolinus chinensis
鷓鴣	partridge
鷕	cry of hen pheasant
鷖	wigeon (Anas penelope, a Eurasian duck); seagull (arch.)
鷗	common gull
鷗嘴噪鷗	(bird species of China) gull-billed tern (Gelochelidon nilotica)
鷙	fierce; brutal; bird of prey
鷚	pipit (genus Anthus)
鷟	used in 鸑鷟|𬸚𬸦[yue4 zhuo2]
鷥	used in 鷺鷥|鹭鸶[lu4 si1]
鷦	eastern wren
鷦鷯	(bird species of China) Eurasian wren (Troglodytes troglodytes)
鷩	phasianus pictus
鷫	used in 鷫鸘|鹔鹴[su4 shuang1]
鷫鸘	green, long-necked mythical bird
鷬	black-naped oriole (Oriolus chinensis)
鷭	water-hen; gallinula
鷯	eastern wren
鷯哥	(bird species of China) common hill myna (Gracula religiosa)
鷲	vulture
鷲科	Aegyptiidae (the vulture family)
鷲鳥	vulture
鷴	silver pheasant (Phasianus nycthemerus)
鷸	common snipe; sandpiper
鷸蚌相爭	abbr. for 鷸蚌相爭，漁翁得利|鹬蚌相争，渔翁得利[yu4 bang4 xiang1 zheng1 , yu2 weng1 de2 li4]
鷸蚌相爭，漁翁得利	lit. when the snipe and the clam grapple with each other, the fisherman catches them both (idiom)
鷸鴕	kiwi (bird)
鷹	general term for a bird of prey (eagle, hawk or falcon etc)
鷹嘴豆	chickpea (Cicer arietinum); garbanzo bean
鷹嘴豆泥	hummus
鷹手營子礦區	Yingshouyingzi Mining District, a district of Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
鷹擊長空	the eagle soars in the sky (citation from Mao Zedong)
鷹星雲	Eagle or Star Queen Nebula M16
鷹架	scaffolding
鷹派	hawk faction (opposite: 鴿派|鸽派[ge1 pai4], doves)
鷹潭市	Yingtan, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
鷹爪翻子拳	Ying Zhua Fan Zi Quan - "Eagle Claw" - Martial Art
鷹犬	hawks and hounds; (fig.) running dogs; hired thugs
鷹狀星雲	Eagle or Star Queen Nebula M16
鷹鉤鼻	aquiline nose; Roman nose
鷹頭獅	griffin
鷹鴞	(bird species of China) brown boobook; brown hawk-owl (Ninox scutulata)
鷹鵑	(bird species of China) large hawk-cuckoo (Hierococcyx sparverioides)
鷹鵰	(bird species of China) mountain hawk-eagle; Hodgson's hawk-eagle (Nisaetus nipalensis)
鷺	heron
鷺鷥	egret
鷽	various species of finch (old)
鷾	a swallow
鷿	used in 鷿鷈|䴙䴘[pi4 ti1]
鷿鷈	(zoology) grebe (Podicipediformes)
鸁	grebe; wren
鸂	used in 鸂鶒|㶉𫛶[xi1 chi4]
鸂鶒	a kind of waterbird resembling a mandarin duck
鸇	sparrow hawk; swift
鸌	(bound form) bird of the Procellariidae family, which includes shearwaters, gadfly petrels etc
鸏	tropic bird
鸐	Reeves's pheasant (Syrmaticus reevesii)
鸑	used in 鸑鷟|𬸚𬸦[yue4 zhuo2]
鸑鷟	(literary) mythical bird similar to a phoenix
鸒	the eastern jackdaw
鸓	flying squirrel
鸕	used in 鸕鶿|鸬鹚[lu2 ci2]
鸕鶿	cormorant
鸘	used in 鷫鸘|鹔鹴[su4 shuang1]
鸚	(bound form) parrot
鸚哥	(coll.) parrot
鸚鵡	parrot
鸚鵡學舌	to parrot; to repeat uncritically what sb says
鸚鵡熱	psittacosis; ornithosis; parrot fever
鸚鵡螺	nautilus; ammonite (fossil spiral shell)
鸛	crane; stork
鸛嘴翡翠	(bird species of China) stork-billed kingfisher (Pelargopsis capensis)
鸝	Chinese oriole
鸞	mythical bird related to phoenix
鸞翔鳳翥	(of calligraphy) full of power and grace
鸞翔鳳集	lit. firebird and phoenix come together (idiom)
鸞飄鳳泊	lit. firebird soars, phoenix alights (idiom)
鸞鳳	luan and phoenix; husband and wife; virtuous person
鹵	alkaline soil; salt; brine
鹵代烴	haloalkane (obtained from hydrocarbon by substituting halogen for hydrogen, e.g. chlorobenzene or the CFCs)
鹵化	to halogenate; halogenation (chemistry)
鹵化物	halide (i.e. fluoride, chloride, bromide etc)
鹵化銀	silver halide (usually chloride) used to fix photos
鹵水	brine; bittern; marinade
鹵素	halogen (chemistry)
鹵素燈	halogen lamp
鹵質	alkalinity
鹹	salted; salty; stingy
鹹水	salt water; brine
鹹水妹	(dialect) prostitute from Guangdong (esp. one in Shanghai before the Revolution) (loanword from "handsome maid")
鹹水湖	salt lake
鹹津津	nice and salty (taste)
鹹海	Aral Sea
鹹淡	salty and unsalty (flavors); degree of saltiness; brackish (water)
鹹澀	salty and bitter; acerbic
鹹濕	(Tw) (coll.) obscene; pornographic
鹹絲絲	slightly salty
鹹肉	bacon; salt-cured meat
鹹菜	salted vegetables; pickles
鹹豬手	pervert (esp. one who gropes women in public)
鹹魚	salted fish
鹹魚翻身	lit. the salted fish turns over (idiom)
鹹鴨蛋	salted duck egg
鹹鹽	salt (colloquial); table salt
鹺	brine; salt
鹼	(chemistry) base; alkali; soda
鹼化	to make basic or alkaline; alkalization (chemistry)
鹼土	alkaline soil
鹼土金屬	alkaline earth (i.e. beryllium Be 鈹|铍, magnesium Mg 鎂|镁, calcium Ca 鈣|钙, strontium Sr 鍶|锶, barium Ba 鋇|钡 and radium Ra 鐳|镭)
鹼基	chemical base; nucleobase
鹼基互補配對	complementary base pairing e.g. adenine A 腺嘌呤 pairs with thymine T 胸腺嘧啶 in DNA
鹼基對	base pair (molecular biology)
鹼基配對	base pairing (e.g. adenine A 腺嘌呤 pairs with thymine T 胸腺嘧啶 in DNA)
鹼度	alkalinity
鹼式鹽	alkali salt (soda, lye, calcium carbonate etc)
鹼性	(chemistry) alkaline
鹼性土	alkaline soil
鹼性藍	alkali blue
鹼性金屬	alkali metal
鹼性電池	alkaline battery
鹼斑	alkali spot
鹼水	lye water; alkaline water (used in cooking)
鹼水麵包	bread made with a lye solution; (esp.) pretzel
鹼腺	alkali gland
鹼荒	alkali wasteland
鹼金屬	alkali metal
鹽	salt
鹽井	salt well; brine well dug for salt production
鹽亭縣	Yanting, a county in Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
鹽分	salt content
鹽坨子	open-air salt heap
鹽城市	Yancheng, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
鹽埕	Yancheng district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
鹽埕區	Yancheng district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
鹽場	saltpan; saltbed
鹽山縣	Yanshan, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
鹽巴	table salt
鹽度	salinity
鹽成土	halosol (soil taxonomy)
鹽業	salt industry
鹽水	salt water; brine
鹽池	Yanchi county in Ningxia; a saltpan
鹽池縣	Yanchi, a county in Wuzhong City 吳忠市|吴忠市[Wu2 zhong1 Shi4], Ningxia
鹽津縣	Yanjin, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
鹽湖	salt lake
鹽湖區	Yanhu, a district of Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
鹽湖城	Salt Lake City, capital of Utah
鹽源縣	Yanyuan, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
鹽灘	salt flats; salt lake
鹽田	saltpan
鹽田區	Yantian, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
鹽皮質類固醇	mineralocorticoid (e.g. aldosterone)
鹽膚木	Chinese sumac (Rhus chinensis)
鹽蛇	(dialect) gecko
鹽邊縣	Yanbian, a county in Panzhihua City 攀枝花市[Pan1 zhi1 hua1 Shi4], Sichuan
鹽都區	Yandu, a district of Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
鹽酥雞	Taiwan-style popcorn chicken
鹽酸	hydrochloric acid
鹽酸克侖特羅	clenbuterol hydrochloride (diet pill that burns fat); e.g. Spiropent
鹽酸鹽	chloride; hydrochloride (chemistry)
鹽鹵	brine
鹽鹼	saline and alkaline (earth)
鹽鹼地	saline soil; (fig.) infertile woman
鹽鹼濕地	a saltmarsh
鹿	deer
鹿兒島	Kagoshima, Japanese island prefecture off the south coast of Kyushu
鹿城區	Lucheng, a district of Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
鹿寨縣	Luzhai, a county in Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
鹿死誰手	lit. at whose hand will the deer die (idiom)
鹿泉區	Luquan, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
鹿特丹	Rotterdam, port city in the Netherlands
鹿肉	venison
鹿苑寺	Rokuonji in northwest Kyōto 京都, Japan
鹿茸	young deer antler prior to ossification (used in TCM)
鹿角	antler; deer horn; abatis
鹿角蕨	staghorn fern (genus Platycerium)
鹿豹座	Camelopardalis (constellation)
鹿邑縣	Luyi, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
麀	female deer; doe; female animal
麂	muntjac
麂皮	suede; chamois leather
麃	(archaic) a type of deer
麇	(literary) in large numbers; thronging
麇集	(literary) to flock; to swarm; to congregate en masse; to cluster together
麈	leader of herd; stag
麋	moose; river bank
麋鹿	Père David's deer (Elaphurus davidianus), species of deer native to China that is critically endangered
麌	stag; herd
麑	fawn
麒	used in 麒麟[qi2 lin2]
麒麟	(Chinese mythology) qilin; (old) giraffe
麒麟區	Qilin, a district of Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
麒麟座	Monoceros constellation
麒麟菜	eucheuma, a type of red algae (used in TCM)
麒麟閣	Qilin Pavilion, located in the Weiyang Palace, a hall decorated with portraits of famous officials
麓	foot of a hill
麓湖公園	Luhu Park in central Guangzhou
麖	red deer
麗	used in place names, notably 高麗|高丽[Gao1 li2] and 麗水|丽水[Li2 shui3]
麗人	(literary) beautiful woman; belle
麗佳娜	Regina (name)
麗實	practical
麗日	bright sun; beautiful day
麗星噪鶥	(bird species of China) Bhutan laughingthrush (Trochalopteron imbricatum)
麗星鷯鶥	(bird species of China) spotted elachura (Elachura formosa)
麗水市	Lishui, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
麗江古城	Lijiang old town (in Yunnan)
麗江市	Lijiang, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
麗池卡登	Ritz-Carlton (hotel chain)
麗緻	Ritz (hotel chain)
麗色噪鶥	(bird species of China) red-winged laughingthrush (Trochalopteron formosum)
麗色奇鶥	(bird species of China) beautiful sibia (Heterophasia pulchella)
麗詞	beautiful wordage; also written 麗辭|丽辞[li4 ci2]
麗語	beautiful wordage
麗辭	beautiful wordage; also written 麗詞|丽词[li4 ci2]
麗魄	moon
麗鳾	(bird species of China) beautiful nuthatch (Sitta formosa)
麗麗	Lili (name)
麚	buck; stag
麛	fawn; young of animals
麝	musk deer (Moschus moschiferus); also called 香獐子
麝牛	musk ox
麝貓	civet (zoology)
麝香	musk
麝香石竹	grenadine; carnation; clove pink
麝香草	thyme
麝香貓	civet (zoology)
麟經	another name for the Spring and Autumn Annals 春秋
麟角鳳觜	lit. qilin's horn, phoenix's mouth (idiom); fig. rara avis; rarity
麟遊縣	Linyou, a county in Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
麠	red deer; sambar deer
麣	goat (archaic)
麤	remote; distant
麥	wheat; barley; oats; mic (abbr. for 麥克風|麦克风[mai4 ke4 feng1])
麥乳精	malt milk extract
麥克	(name) Mike; Michael; (prefix) Mac-; Mc-
麥克唐納	(name) MacDonald or McDonald
麥克德莫特	McDermott (name)
麥克斯韋	Maxwell (name)
麥克白	Macbeth (name); Macbeth, 1606 tragedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚
麥克白夫人	Lady Macbeth
麥克筆	(loanword) marker pen
麥克米蘭	McMillan or MacMillan (name)
麥克維	(Timothy) McVeigh
麥克阿瑟	General Douglas MacArthur (1880-1964), US commander in Pacific during WW2, sacked in 1951 by President Truman for exceeding orders during the Korean war
麥克風	(loanword) microphone
麥冬	dwarf lilyturf (Ophiopogon japonicus), whose tuber is used in TCM
麥凱恩	McCain (name)
麥凱斯菱	rhombus of Michaelis (anatomy)
麥加	Mecca, Saudi Arabia
麥卡錫主義	McCarthyism
麥可	(Tw) (name) Michael
麥司卡林	(chemistry) (loanword) mescaline
麥哲倫	Magellan (1480-1521), Portuguese explorer
麥唐納	(name) MacDonald or McDonald
麥地那	Medina, Saudi Arabia
麥塊	(Tw) Minecraft
麥子	wheat
麥德林	Medellín, city in Colombia
麥德蒙	McDermott (name)
麥德龍	Metro supermarket chain (originally German)
麥提莎	Maltesers (chocolate-covered confectionery brand)
麥氏賊鷗	(bird species of China) South Polar skua (Stercorarius maccormicki)
麥浪	wheat field rippling in the wind
麥淇淋	(loanword) margarine
麥爾維爾	(name) Melville
麥片	oatmeal; rolled oats
麥田怪圈	crop circle
麥當勞	McDonald's (fast food company)
麥當勞叔叔	Ronald McDonald
麥當娜	Madonna (1958-), US pop singer
麥秋	harvest season
麥秸	straw from barley or wheat
麥稃	barley husk
麥積區	Maiji, a district of Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
麥積山石窟	Mt Maiji Caves at Tianshui 天水, Gansu
麥穗	ear of wheat
麥粒	grain of wheat
麥粒腫	(medicine) stye; hordeolum
麥納瑪	Manama, capital of Bahrain (Tw)
麥納麥	Manama, capital city of Bahrain
麥肯錫	(name) MacKenzie; McKinsey
麥胚	wheat germ
麥芽	malt
麥芽糊精	maltodextrin
麥芽糖	maltose (sweet syrup)
麥芽糖醇	maltitol, a sugar alcohol
麥蓋提縣	Makit, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
麥角	ergot
麥迪	Tracy McGrady (1979-), former NBA player
麥迪遜	Madison (name); Madison, capital of Wisconsin
麥迪遜廣場花園	Madison Square Garden
麥迪遜花園廣場	Madison Square Garden
麥道	McDonnell Douglas (plane company)
麥酒	beer; ale
麥金塔電腦	Macintosh (brand of computers made by Apple); Mac
麥門冬	dwarf lilyturf (Ophiopogon japonicus), whose tuber is used in TCM
麥霸	mic hog
麥香堡	(Tw) (old) Big Mac hamburger (now referred to in Taiwan as 大麥克|大麦克[Da4 Mai4 ke4])
麥麗素	Chinese chocolate-coated confectionery modeled on Maltesers 麥提莎|麦提莎[Mai4 ti2 sha1]
麥麩	wheat bran
麩	bran
麩皮	bran (esp. of wheat)
麩皮麵包	whole-wheat bread
麩質	gluten
麭	pastry; cake
麮	porridge
麰	barley
麴	fermentation starter; leaven (molds, yeasts or bacteria used in fermenting soy products or brewing etc)
麵	flour; noodles; (of food) soft (not crunchy)
麵人兒	dough figurine
麵包	bread
麵包屑	breadcrumbs
麵包師傅	baker
麵包店	bakery
麵包心	crumb (soft interior of a loaf of bread)
麵包房	bakery
麵包果	jackfruit; breadfruit; Artocarpus heterophyllus
麵包樹	breadfruit tree; Artocarpus altilis
麵包機	bread making machine; bread maker
麵包渣	breadcrumbs
麵包片	slice of bread
麵包瓤	crumb (soft interior of a loaf of bread)
麵包皮	crust
麵包糠	breadcrumbs
麵包蟲	mealworm (Tenebrio molitor)
麵包車	van for carrying people; taxi minibus
麵團	dough
麵塑	(figurines) made of dough; dough modeling
麵子	(medicinal) powder
麵板	board for making noodles or kneading bread dough
麵條	noodles
麵檔	noodle stall or counter
麵湯	noodle soup; noodles in soup; noodle broth
麵疙瘩	dough dumpling
麵的	abbr. of 麵包車的士|面包车的士[mian4 bao1 che1 di1 shi4]; minivan taxi
麵皮	dumpling skin; piecrust
麵種	(breadmaking) starter
麵窩	Chinese doughnut
麵筋	gluten
麵粉	flour
麵糊	panada; cooked flour paste
麵線	misua; wheat vermicelli (very thin variety of wheat noodles used esp. in Fujian)
麵肥	leaven; sourdough
麵類	noodle dishes (on menu)
麵食	food made from wheat flour, such as noodles, dumplings, buns etc
麵餅	flatbread
麵館	noodle restaurant
麵體	noodles
麵點	pastry
麻	generic name for hemp, flax etc
麻利	swift; agile; efficient
麻吉	(slang) (Tw) close friend; best pal; to get along well
麻嗖嗖	to feel cold and numb
麻城市	Macheng, a county-level city in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
麻婆豆腐	mapo tofu; stir-fried beancurd in chili sauce
麻子	pockmark
麻將	mahjong
麻將牌	mahjong tile
麻山區	Mashan, a district of Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
麻州	abbr. for Massachusetts
麻布	sackcloth
麻木	numb; insensitive; apathetic
麻木不仁	numbed; insensitive; apathetic
麻栗坡縣	Malipo, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
麻椒	Sichuan pepper; (esp.) green Sichuan pepper
麻櫟	sawtooth oak; Quercus acutissima
麻江縣	Majiang, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
麻油	sesame oil
麻溜	(dialect) quickly; briskly; without delay (northern colloquialism, often used in commands)
麻煩	trouble; inconvenience; inconvenient; troublesome; annoying
麻瓜	Muggles (Harry Potter)
麻生	Asō (name)
麻生太郎	ASŌ Tarō (1940-), Japanese entrepreneur and LDP politician, prime minister from 2008
麻疹	measles
麻痺	paralysis; palsy; numbness
麻痺大意	unwary; negligent
麻瘋	leprosy; also written 麻風|麻风
麻瘢	pock mark
麻省理工學院	Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)
麻石	chiseled stone (used in construction)
麻章區	Mazhang, a district of Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
麻糬	(transliteration of Japanese "mochi") sticky rice balls; mochi
麻紗	linen or cotton fabric
麻絮	hemp wadding
麻纏	to pester
麻腮風	measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) (abbr. for 麻疹[ma2 zhen3] + 流行性腮腺炎[liu2 xing2 xing4 sai1 xian4 yan2] + 風疹|风疹[feng1 zhen3])
麻臉	pockmarked face
麻花	fried dough twist (crisp snack food made by deep-frying plaited dough)
麻花辮	braided pigtail
麻苧	hemp and ramie; coarse cloth
麻莖	hemp straw
麻藥	anesthetic
麻衣	hemp garment
麻袋	sack; burlap bag
麻豆	(fashion) (loanword) model
麻辣	hot and numbing
麻辣燙	malatang (a Sichuan-style spicy soup dish)
麻醉	anesthesia
麻醉劑	an anesthetic; (fig.) a narcotic
麻醉學	anesthesiology
麻醉學者	anaesthesiologist
麻醉師	anaesthetist
麻醉藥	anesthetic; narcotic
麻醉藥品	narcotic
麻醬	sesame paste
麻陽苗族自治縣	Mayang Miao Autonomous County, in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
麻雀	sparrow; (dialect) mahjong
麻雀雖小，五臟俱全	the sparrow may be small but all its vital organs are there (idiom)
麻類	bast fiber plant (general term for hemp, flax, jute, ramie etc)
麻風	leprosy; Hansen's disease
麻風病	leprosy; Hansen's disease
麻麻亮	(dialect) to begin to dawn; to be just getting light
麻黃	ephedra (genus Ephedra)
麻黃素	ephedrine
麻黃鹼	ephedrine
麼	suffix, used to form interrogative 什麼|什么[shen2 me5], what?, indefinite 這麼|这么[zhe4 me5] thus, etc
麼麼	kissing sound (slang onom.)
麾	signal flag; to signal
麾下	troops; subordinates; (honorific appellation for a general)
黀	hemp stem
黁	warm and fragrant
黃	yellow; pornographic; to fall through
黃不溜秋	yellowish; dirty yellow
黃以靜	Wong Yee Ching or Flossie Wong-Staal (1946-2020) Hong Kong American virologist, joint discoverer of the HIV AIDS virus
黃信	Huang Xin, character in The Water Margin
黃光裕	Huang Guangyu (1969-), PRC entrepreneur and millionaire, founder of GOME Electrical 國美電器|国美电器[Guo2 mei3 Dian4 qi4]
黃克強	pseudonym of Huang Xing 黃興|黄兴[Huang2 Xing1], one of the heroes of the 1911 Xinhai Revolution 辛亥革命[Xin1 hai4 Ge2 ming4]
黃冠啄木鳥	(bird species of China) lesser yellownape (Picus chlorolophus)
黃包車	rickshaw
黃南藏族自治州	Huangnan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
黃原膠	xanthan
黃原酸鹽	xanthate
黃喉	aorta (ingredient of hotpot, Sichuan cuisine)
黃喉噪鶥	(bird species of China) yellow-throated laughingthrush (Pterorhinus galbanus)
黃喉蜂虎	(bird species of China) European bee-eater (Merops apiaster)
黃喉雀鶥	(bird species of China) yellow-throated fulvetta (Schoeniparus cinereus)
黃喉鵐	(bird species of China) yellow-throated bunting (Emberiza elegans)
黃嘌呤	xanthine
黃嘴山鴉	(bird species of China) alpine chough (Pyrrhocorax graculus)
黃嘴朱頂雀	(bird species of China) twite (Linaria flavirostris)
黃嘴栗啄木鳥	(bird species of China) bay woodpecker (Blythipicus pyrrhotis)
黃嘴河燕鷗	(bird species of China) river tern (Sterna aurantia)
黃嘴潛鳥	(bird species of China) yellow-billed loon (Gavia adamsii)
黃嘴白鷺	(bird species of China) Chinese egret (Egretta eulophotes)
黃嘴藍鵲	(bird species of China) yellow-billed blue magpie (Urocissa flavirostris)
黃嘴角鴞	(bird species of China) mountain scops owl (Otus spilocephalus)
黃土	loess (yellow sandy soil typical of north China)
黃土不露天	a slogan used in reference to a project to improve greenery in some parts of Northern China
黃土地貌	loess landform
黃土高原	Loess Plateau of northwest China
黃埔區	Huangpu, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
黃埔軍校	Whampoa Military Academy
黃壤	yellow soil (acidic, iron-rich soil of tropical and subtropical regions)
黃宗羲	Huang Zongxi (1610-1695), scholar and writer of the Ming-Qing transition
黃富平	pen name of Deng Xiaoping during his 1992 southern tour
黃山	Huangshan, mountain range in Anhui province
黃山區	Huangshan, a district of Huangshan City 黃山市|黄山市[Huang2 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
黃山市	Huangshan, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
黃岡市	Huanggang, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
黃岩區	Huangyan, a district of Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
黃岩島	Huangyan Island (in the South China Sea)
黃島區	Huangdao, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
黃州區	Huangzhou, a district of Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
黃巢	Huang Chao (-884), leader of peasant uprising 875-884 in late Tang
黃巢之亂	late Tang peasant uprising 875-884 led by Huang Chao
黃巢起義	Huang Chao peasant uprising 875-884 in late Tang, led by Huang Chao
黃巾	refers to the Yellow Turbans Peasant Uprising at the end of later Han (from 184)
黃巾之亂	the Yellow Turbans Peasant Uprising at the end of later Han (from 184)
黃巾民變	the Yellow Turbans Peasant Uprising at the end of later Han (from 184)
黃巾起義	Yellow Turbans Peasant Uprising at the end of later Han (from 184)
黃巾軍	the army of Yellow Turbans, a peasant uprising at the end of later Han (from 184)
黃帝	the Yellow Emperor, mythological emperor of China, reigned c. 2697-2597 BC
黃帝內經	The Yellow Emperor's Internal Canon, medical text c. 300 BC
黃帝八十一難經	The Yellow Emperor's Classic of Eighty-one Difficulties, medical text, c. 1st century AD
黃帝族	tribes under the Yellow Emperor
黃平縣	Huangping, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
黃庭堅	Huang Tingjian (1045–1105), Song poet and calligrapher
黃庭經	Huangting Jing, one of the primary scriptures of Daoism
黃建南	John Huang (1945-), Democratic Party fundraiser
黃忠	Huang Zhong (-220), general of Shu in Romance of the Three Kingdoms, portrayed as an old fighter
黃教	Yellow hat or Gelugpa school of Tibetan Buddhism
黃斑	macula lutea (anatomy, central area of retina); yellow spot
黃昏	dusk; evening; nightfall
黃昏戀	fig. romantic relationship between an elderly couple
黃晶果	abiu (Pouteria caimito)
黃曆	Chinese divination almanac
黃曲霉	Aspergillus flavus (fungus typically found on crops)
黃曲霉毒素	aflatoxin
黃曲霉菌	Aspergillus flavus (fungus typically found on crops)
黃書	pornographic book
黃果樹大瀑布	Huangguoshu falls, Anshun 安順|安顺[An1 shun4], Guizhou
黃果樹瀑布	Huangguoshu waterfalls, Anshun 安順|安顺[An1 shun4], Guizhou
黃柳霜	Anna May Wong (1905-1961), Chinese American Hollywood actress
黃梅季	East Asian rainy season (in late spring and early summer)
黃梅戲	Huangmei opera (local opera of Anhui)
黃梅縣	Huangmei, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
黃梨	pineapple; pear
黃檗	Amur cork tree (Phellodendron amurense)
黃段子	dirty joke
黃毒	pornography; the psychological harm of pornography
黃毛丫頭	silly little girl
黃水晶	citrine (orange or yellow quartz SiO2 as a semiprecious stone)
黃河	Yellow River or Huang He
黃河大合唱	Yellow River Cantata (1939) by Xian Xinghai 冼星海[Xian3 Xing1 hai3]
黃河流域	the Yellow River basin
黃油	butter
黃泉	the Yellow Springs; the underworld of Chinese mythology
黃泛區	Huang He Inundated Area, the area flooded in 1938 when dikes along the Yellow River were destroyed in an attempt to halt the advance of Japanese troops
黃浦區	Huangpu, the most central of Shanghai's districts
黃浦江	Huangpu River, major river flowing through Shanghai, dividing the city into Puxi 浦西[Pu3 xi1] (west of the river) and Pudong 浦東|浦东[Pu3 dong1] (east of the river)
黃海	Yellow Sea
黃海北道	North Hwanghae Province of west North Korea
黃海南道	South Hwanghae Province of west North Korea
黃海道	former Hwanghae Province of northwest Korea, divided into North and South Hwanghae Province of North Korea in 1954
黃湯	liquor; booze; murky, muddy water
黃滔	Huang Tao (840-911), late Tang poet
黃漂	rafting on the Yellow River (abbr. for 黃河漂流|黄河漂流[Huang2 He2 piao1 liu2])
黃澄澄	glistening yellow; golden
黃熱病	yellow fever
黃熱病毒	yellow fever virus
黃爪隼	(bird species of China) lesser kestrel (Falco naumanni)
黃父鬼	Huang Fugui, ghost of legends who provided Liu Juanzi with his magical recipes 劉涓子鬼遺方|刘涓子鬼遗方
黃片	adult movie; pornographic movie
黃牌	(sports) yellow card; (fig.) admonishment
黃牛	ox; cattle; scalper of tickets etc; (dialect) to fail to show up
黃牛票	scalped tickets
黃玉	topaz
黃瓜	cucumber
黃疸	jaundice
黃疸病	jaundice
黃痣藪鶥	(bird species of China) Steere's liocichla (Liocichla steerii)
黃癬	favus of the scalp (skin disease)
黃白交點	ecliptic line
黃皮	wampee (Clausena lansium)
黃眉姬鶲	(bird species of China) narcissus flycatcher (Ficedula narcissina)
黃眉林雀	(bird species of China) yellow-browed tit (Sylviparus modestus)
黃眉柳鶯	(bird species of China) yellow-browed warbler (Phylloscopus inornatus)
黃眉鵐	(bird species of China) yellow-browed bunting (Emberiza chrysophrys)
黃石公	Huang Shigong, also known as Xia Huanggong 夏黃公|夏黄公[Xia4 Huang2 gong1] (dates of birth and death uncertain), Daoist hermit of the Qin Dynasty 秦代[Qin2 dai4] and purported author
黃石公三略	"Three Strategies of Huang Shigong", one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China
黃石市	Huangshi, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
黃石港區	Huangshigang, a district of Huangshi City 黃石市|黄石市[Huang2 shi2 Shi4], Hubei
黃禍	yellow peril (offensive term referring to the perceived threat to Western nations, of immigration or military expansion from East Asian nations)
黃秋葵	okra (Abelmoschus esculentus)
黃種	the "yellow" race; the Mongoloid race (traditional racial classification)
黃種人	person traditionally classified as belonging to the Mongoloid race, including East Asians, the Inuit and Native Americans
黃粉蟲	mealworm (Tenebrio molitor)
黃粱夢	dream of golden millet; fig. illusions of wealth and glory; pipe dream
黃粱美夢	dream of golden millet; fig. illusions of wealth and power; pipe dream
黃精	King Solomon's seal (plant of genus Polygonatum)
黃紋擬啄木鳥	(bird species of China) green-eared barbet (Psilopogon faiostrictus)
黃綠	yellow-green
黃綠色	yellow green
黃綠鵯	(bird species of China) flavescent bulbul (Pycnonotus flavescens)
黃羊	Mongolian gazelle; Procapra gutturosa
黃耆	milk vetch; plant genus Astragalus
黃肛啄花鳥	(bird species of China) yellow-vented flowerpecker (Dicaeum chrysorrheum)
黃胸柳鶯	(bird species of China) yellow-vented warbler (Phylloscopus cantator)
黃胸織雀	(bird species of China) baya weaver (Ploceus philippinus)
黃胸鵐	(bird species of China) yellow-breasted bunting (Emberiza aureola)
黃腔	lewd comment; vulgar joke
黃腰太陽鳥	(bird species of China) crimson sunbird (Aethopyga siparaja)
黃腰柳鶯	(bird species of China) Pallas's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus proregulus)
黃腰響蜜鴷	(bird species of China) yellow-rumped honeyguide (Indicator xanthonotus)
黃腳三趾鶉	(bird species of China) yellow-legged buttonquail (Turnix tanki)
黃腳綠鳩	(bird species of China) yellow-footed green pigeon (Treron phoenicopterus)
黃腳銀鷗	(bird species of China) Caspian gull (Larus cachinnans)
黃腹冠鵯	(bird species of China) white-throated bulbul (Alophoixus flaveolus)
黃腹啄花鳥	(bird species of China) yellow-bellied flowerpecker (Dicaeum melanozanthum)
黃腹山雀	(bird species of China) yellow-bellied tit (Pardaliparus venustulus)
黃腹扇尾鶲	(bird species of China) yellow-bellied fantail; yellow-bellied fairy fantail (Chelidorhynx hypoxanthus)
黃腹柳鶯	(bird species of China) Tickell's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus affinis)
黃腹樹鶯	(bird species of China) yellow-bellied bush warbler (Horornis acanthizoides)
黃腹花蜜鳥	(bird species of China) garden sunbird (Cinnyris jugularis)
黃腹角雉	(bird species of China) Cabot's tragopan (Tragopan caboti)
黃腹鶲鶯	(bird species of China) yellow-bellied warbler (Abroscopus superciliaris)
黃腹鷚	(bird species of China) buff-bellied pipit (Anthus rubescens)
黃腹鷦鶯	(bird species of China) yellow-bellied prinia (Prinia flaviventris)
黃腿漁鴞	(bird species of China) tawny fish owl (Ketupa flavipes)
黃膠	yellow gum
黃臀鵯	(bird species of China) brown-breasted bulbul (Pycnonotus xanthorrhous)
黃臉	yellow face (due to sickness etc); yellow-skinned people
黃臉婆	faded old woman
黃興	Huang Xing (1874-1916), revolutionary politician, close collaborator of Sun Yat-sen, prominent in the 1911 Xinhai Revolution 辛亥革命[Xin1 hai4 Ge2 ming4], murdered in Shanghai in 1916
黃色	yellow; vulgar; lewd; pornographic
黃色書刊	pornographic books and magazines
黃色炸藥	trinitrotoluene (TNT), C6H2(NO2)3CH3
黃芪	huangqi; milk vetch root (used in TCM)
黃花	yellow flowers (of various types); chrysanthemum; cauliflower
黃花女	maiden; virgin
黃花姑娘	maiden; virgin girl
黃花崗	Huanghuagang (Chrysanthemum Hill) in Guangzhou, scene of disastrous uprising of 23rd April 1911
黃花崗七十二烈士	the seventy two martyrs of the Huanghuagang uprising of 23rd April 1911
黃花崗起義	Huanghuagang uprising of 23rd April 1911 in Guangzhou, one a long series of unsuccessful uprisings of Sun Yat-sen's revolutionary party
黃花幼女	maiden; virgin
黃花梨木	yellow rosewood
黃花菜	citron daylily (Hemerocallis citrina Baroni); golden needles (its edible flower)
黃花菜都涼了	lit. the dishes are cold (idiom)
黃花閨女	maiden; virgin
黃花魚	yellow croaker (fish); corvina
黃菊	Huang Ju (1938-2007), Chinese politician
黃華	Huang Hua (1913-2010), PRC foreign minister (1976-1982) and vice premier (1980-1982)
黃葦鳽	(bird species of China) yellow bittern (Ixobrychus sinensis)
黃薑	turmeric
黃蜂	wasp
黃蠟	beeswax
黃袍加身	lit. to take the yellow gown (idiom); fig. to be made emperor
黃褐斑	chloasma; melasma
黃褐色	tan (color); tawny
黃謠	sexual rumor (abbr. for 黃色謠言|黄色谣言[huang2 se4 yao2 yan2])
黃豆	soybean
黃貂魚	stingray
黃賓虹	Huang Binhong (1865-1955), art historian and literati painter
黃赤色	golden colored; yellow red
黃連	Chinese goldthread (Coptis chinensis), rhizome used in medicine
黃道	(astronomy) the ecliptic
黃道吉日	(idiom) auspicious day (for a wedding, ceremony etc)
黃遵憲	Huang Zunxian (1848-1905), Qing dynasty poet and diplomat, author of A Record of Japan 日本國誌|日本国志[Ri4 ben3 Guo2 zhi4], an extended analysis of Meiji Japan
黃酒	"yellow wine" (mulled rice wine, usually served warm)
黃酮	flavone
黃酮類化合物	flavonoid (chemistry)
黃酶	yellow enzyme
黃醬	yellow soybean paste (fermented and salted)
黃金	gold; golden (opportunity); prime (time)
黃金分割	golden ratio; golden section
黃金寶	Wong Kam-po (1973-), Hong Kong champion cyclist
黃金屋	lit. house made of gold; fig. luxurious residence
黃金時代	golden age
黃金時段	prime time
黃金果	abiu (Pouteria caimito)
黃金檔	prime time
黃金海岸	name of various places including Gold Coast (Australian city), Gold Coast (former British colony in Africa) and Costa Daurada (area on the coast of Catalonia, Spain)
黃金輝	Wee Kim Wee (1915-2005), president of Singapore (1985-1993)
黃金週	Golden Week, two 7-day national holiday periods
黃銅	brass (alloy of copper 銅|铜[tong2] and zinc 鋅|锌[xin1])
黃鐘譭棄瓦釜雷鳴	lit. earthern pots make more noise than classical bells
黃鐵礦	pyrite
黃長燁	Hwang Jang-yop (1923-2010), North Korean politician known for defecting to South Korea
黃陂區	Huangpi, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
黃陵	mausoleum of the Yellow Emperor
黃陵縣	Huangling, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
黃雀	(bird species of China) Eurasian siskin (Spinus spinus)
黃頁	Yellow Pages
黃頭鶺鴒	(bird species of China) citrine wagtail (Motacilla citreola)
黃頰山雀	(bird species of China) yellow-cheeked tit (Machlolophus spilonotus)
黃頰麥雞	(bird species of China) sociable lapwing (Vanellus gregarius)
黃頷蛇	adder (zoology)
黃頸啄木鳥	(bird species of China) Darjeeling woodpecker (Dendrocopos darjellensis)
黃頸擬蠟嘴雀	(bird species of China) collared grosbeak (Mycerobas affinis)
黃頸鳳鶥	(bird species of China) whiskered yuhina (Yuhina flavicollis)
黃額鴉雀	(bird species of China) fulvous parrotbill (Suthora fulvifrons)
黃飛鴻	Wong Fei-hung (1847-1925), martial arts master
黃餅	yellowcake
黃驊市	Huanghua, a county-level city in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
黃骨髓	yellow bone marrow
黃體	corpus luteum (glands in female mammals producing progesterone)
黃體期	luteal phase (period in the menstrual cycle when an embryo can implant in the womb)
黃體酮	progesterone
黃魚	yellow croaker (fish)
黃魚車	lit. croaker car; flatbed tricycle; delivery tricycle
黃鱔	Asian swamp eel (Monopterus albus) (CL:條|条[tiao2])
黃鴨	Ruddy Shelduck (Tadorna ferruginea); same as 赤麻鴨|赤麻鸭
黃鵐	(bird species of China) yellowhammer (Emberiza citrinella)
黃鵬	oriole; black-naped oriole (Oriolus chinensis)
黃鶯	black-naped oriole (Oriolus chinensis)
黃鶴樓	Yellow Crane Tower in Wuhan City, built in 223, burnt down in 1884, rebuilt in 1985
黃鶺鴒	(bird species of China) eastern yellow wagtail (Motacilla tschutschensis)
黃鸝	yellow oriole (Oriolus chinensis)
黃麻	jute (Corchorus capsularis Linn.); plant fiber used for rope or sacks
黃鼠狼給雞拜年	Beware of suspicious folk bearing gifts, they are sure to be ill-intentioned. (idiom)
黃鼬	Siberian weasel (Mustela sibirica)
黃龍病	huanglongbing, citrus greening disease
黃龍縣	Huanglong, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
黇	used in 黇鹿[tian1 lu4]
黇鹿	fallow deer (Dama dama)
黈	a yellow color
黌	school
黌舍	school building; school
黍	broomcorn millet; glutinous millet
黍鵐	(bird species of China) corn bunting (Emberiza calandra)
黎	Li ethnic group of Hainan Province; surname Li
黎利	Le Loi, Vietnamese general and emperor who won back independence for Vietnam from China in 1428
黎城縣	Licheng, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
黎川縣	Lichuan, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
黎巴嫩	Lebanon
黎平縣	Liping, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
黎庶	populace; masses; the people
黎族	Li ethnic group of Hainan
黎明	dawn; daybreak
黎明前的黑暗	darkness comes before dawn; things can only get better (idiom)
黎明時分	daybreak; at the crack of dawn
黎智英	Lai Chee-ying, aka Jimmy Lai (1947–), Hong Kong media tycoon, prominent critic of the CCP and supporter of the pro-democracy camp 民主派[Min2 zhu3 pai4]
黎曼	Bernhard Riemann (1826–1866), German mathematician
黎曼幾何	(math.) Riemannian geometry
黎民	the common people; the great unwashed
黎筍	Le Duan (1907-1986), Vietnamese communist politician
黏	sticky; glutinous; (Tw) to adhere; to stick on; to glue
黏人	(of a child) clingy; (of a pet) fond of interacting with people
黏住	cling
黏兒	gum; resin
黏合	to glue together
黏合劑	glue
黏土	clay
黏土動畫	clay animation; Claymation
黏度	viscosity
黏性	adhesiveness; stickiness; viscosity
黏性力	(physics) viscous force
黏扣帶	velcro (Tw)
黏木	amonang tree (Ixonanthes chinensis)
黏果酸漿	tomatillo (Physalis philadelphica)
黏涎	saliva; slobber; (coll.) long-winded; meandering
黏涎子	saliva; dribble
黏液	mucus
黏滑	slimy (of rotten food); viscous; (mechanics) stick-slip
黏滯	viscous
黏滯性	viscosity
黏痰	phlegm
黏稠度	viscosity
黏答答	(unpleasantly) sticky
黏米	glutinous rice; sticky rice; (dialect) broomcorn millet
黏糊	sticky; glutinous; slow-moving
黏糊糊	sticky
黏結	to cohere; to bind
黏膜	mucous membrane
黏膠	glue; adhesive; viscose
黏膠液	viscose
黏膩	sticky; clammy; (fig.) clingy
黏菌	slime mold (Myxomycetes)
黏著	to adhere; to stick together; to bond; to agglutinate
黏著力	adhesion; adhesive force
黏著性	(linguistic) agglutinative
黏著語	agglutinative language (e.g. Turkish and Japanese)
黏蟲	armyworm (Mythimna separata)
黏貼	to glue to; to paste onto; to stick on
黏附	to adhere; to stick to
黏附力	adhesive force; adherence; coherence
黐	birdlime
黐線	crazy; insane (Cantonese)
黐膠	birdlime
黑	short name for Heilongjiang 黑龍江|黑龙江[Hei1 long2 jiang1]
黑不溜秋	dark and swarthy
黑五	Black Friday (abbr. for 黑色星期五[Hei1 se4 Xing1 qi1 wu3])
黑五類	the "five black categories" (Cultural Revolution term), i.e. landlords, rich peasants, counterrevolutionaries, bad elements and rightists
黑人	black person; an illegal
黑信	blackmail
黑兀鷲	(bird species of China) red-headed vulture (Sarcogyps calvus)
黑光燈	a blacklight; an ultraviolet light
黑冠山雀	(bird species of China) rufous-vented tit (Periparus rubidiventris)
黑冠椋鳥	(bird species of China) Brahminy starling (Sturnia pagodarum)
黑冠長臂猿	black crested gibbon (Nomascus nasutus)
黑冠鳽	(bird species of China) Malayan night heron (Gorsachius melanolophus)
黑冠鵑隼	(bird species of China) black baza (Aviceda leuphotes)
黑冠麻鷺	(bird species of China) Malayan night heron (Gorsachius melanolophus)
黑冠黃鵯	(bird species of China) black-crested bulbul (Rubigula flaviventris)
黑函	poison pen letter (Tw)
黑加侖	blackcurrant
黑化	to blacken
黑匣子	(airplane) black box
黑卡	a fraudulently used credit card
黑卷尾	(bird species of China) black drongo (Dicrurus macrocercus)
黑叉尾海燕	(bird species of China) Swinhoe's storm petrel (Hydrobates monorhis)
黑吃黑	(of a villain) to do the dirty on another villain
黑名單	blacklist
黑命貴	Black Lives Matter (social movement)
黑咕隆咚	pitch-black; pitch-dark
黑咖啡	black coffee
黑哨	(soccer etc) corrupt officiating; dubious call
黑啄木鳥	(bird species of China) black woodpecker (Dryocopus martius)
黑喉噪鶥	(bird species of China) black-throated laughingthrush (Pterorhinus chinensis)
黑喉山雀	(bird species of China) black-bibbed tit (Poecile hypermelaenus)
黑喉山鷦鶯	(bird species of China) hill prinia (Prinia superciliaris)
黑喉岩鷚	(bird species of China) black-throated accentor (Prunella atrogularis)
黑喉歌鴝	(bird species of China) blackthroat (Calliope obscura)
黑喉毛角燕	(bird species of China) Nepal house martin (Delichon nipalense)
黑喉潛鳥	(bird species of China) black-throated loon (Gavia arctica)
黑喉石䳭	(bird species of China) Siberian stonechat (Saxicola maurus)
黑喉紅尾鴝	(bird species of China) Hodgson's redstart (Phoenicurus hodgsoni)
黑喉紅臀鵯	(bird species of China) red-vented bulbul (Pycnonotus cafer)
黑喉縫葉鶯	(bird species of China) dark-necked tailorbird (Orthotomus atrogularis)
黑喉雪雀	(bird species of China) Père David's snowfinch (Pyrgilauda davidiana)
黑喉鴉雀	(bird species of China) black-throated parrotbill (Suthora nipalensis)
黑嘴	stock market manipulator
黑嘴端鳳頭燕鷗	(bird species of China) Chinese crested tern (Thalasseus bernsteini)
黑嘴鬆雞	(bird species of China) black-billed capercaillie (Tetrao urogalloides)
黑嘴鷗	(bird species of China) Saunders's gull (Saundersilarus saundersi)
黑塞哥維那	Herzegovina
黑夜	night
黑天	night; nightfall
黑天半夜	(idiom) in the middle of the night
黑天鵝	black swan
黑天鵝事件	black swan event
黑奴	black slave
黑奴籲天錄	Uncle Tom's Cabin, translated and adapted by Lin Shu 林紓|林纾
黑子	black piece (in Chinese chess); black stone (in Go)
黑客	(computing) (loanword) hacker
黑客帝國	The Matrix (1999 movie)
黑客松	(loanword) hackathon
黑尾地鴉	(bird species of China) Mongolian ground jay (Podoces hendersoni)
黑尾塍鷸	(bird species of China) black-tailed godwit (Limosa limosa)
黑尾蠟嘴雀	(bird species of China) Chinese grosbeak (Eophona migratoria)
黑尾鷗	(bird species of China) black-tailed gull (Larus crassirostris)
黑尿症	alkaponuria
黑屁	(slang) bullshit
黑山	Montenegro (country)
黑山縣	Heishan, a county in Jinzhou City 錦州市|锦州市[Jin3 zhou1 Shi4], Liaoning
黑巧	dark chocolate (abbr. for 黑巧克力[hei1 qiao3 ke4 li4])
黑巧克力	dark chocolate
黑市	black market
黑帖	poison pen letter
黑幕	hidden details; dirty tricks; dark secrets
黑幫	bunch of gangsters; criminal gang; organized crime syndicate
黑店	lit. inn that kills and robs guests (esp. in traditional fiction)
黑影	shadow; darkness; twilight
黑心	ruthless and lacking in conscience
黑心食品	contaminated food product unscrupulously marketed as wholesome
黑戶	unregistered resident or household; unlicensed shop
黑手	(fig.) malign agent who manipulates from behind the scenes
黑手黨	mafia
黑斑	dark spot or blotch on the skin
黑斑蚊	Aedes, a genus of mosquito
黑斑蝗鶯	(bird species of China) common grasshopper warbler (Locustella naevia)
黑旋風	Black Whirlwind, nickname of 李逵[Li3 Kui2], known for his fearsome behavior in combat and his dark complexion
黑旗軍	Black Flag Army
黑暗	dark; darkly; darkness
黑暗時代	Dark Ages
黑暗面	(lit. and fig.) dark side
黑暴	(neologism 2019) rioting by black-clothed protesters in Hong Kong
黑曜岩	obsidian (mining)
黑曜石	obsidian (mining)
黑木耳	Auricularia auricula-judae, an edible fungus
黑松露	black truffle
黑板	blackboard
黑板報	blackboard bulletin with short news items written on it (can usually be found in factories, schools etc)
黑枕燕鷗	(bird species of China) black-naped tern (Sterna sumatrana)
黑枕王鶲	(bird species of China) black-naped monarch (Hypothymis azurea)
黑枕黃鸝	(bird species of China) black-naped oriole (Oriolus chinensis)
黑林鴿	(bird species of China) black wood pigeon; Japanese wood pigeon (Columba janthina)
黑枯茗	black cumin (Nigella sativa)
黑格爾	Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770-1831), German philosopher
黑桃	spade ♠ (in card games)
黑框	black frame (esp. around glasses or a funerary portrait)
黑森林	Black Forest; Schwarzwald
黑森林蛋糕	Black Forest cake
黑森森	dark and forbidding
黑椒	black pepper
黑樺	Betula dahurica
黑歷史	dark past
黑死病	bubonic plague; Black Death
黑比諾	Pinot noir (grape type)
黑水城	ruins of Heishui Town of Xixia 西夏[Xi1 Xia4] people, in Ejin Banner 額濟納旗|额济纳旗[E2 ji4 na4 Qi2], Alxa League 阿拉善盟[A1 la1 shan4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
黑水縣	Heishui, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
黑水雞	(bird species of China) common moorhen (Gallinula chloropus)
黑汗王朝	Karakhan Dynasty of central Asia, 8th-10th century
黑沉沉	pitch-dark
黑河市	Heihe, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
黑洞	(astronomy) black hole
黑洞洞	pitch-dark
黑浮鷗	(bird species of China) black tern (Chlidonias niger)
黑海	Black Sea
黑海番鴨	(bird species of China) black scoter (Melanitta americana)
黑漆麻花	pitch-dark; coal black
黑潮	Kuroshio current
黑澤明	Kurosawa Akira (1910-1998) Japanese movie director
黑火藥	black powder (traditional gunpowder)
黑炭	coal; charcoal; (of skin) darkly pigmented
黑煤	black coal
黑煤玉	jet
黑熊	Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus)
黑燈	dark; unlit; a blacklight; an ultraviolet light
黑燈下火	pitch dark; also written 黑燈瞎火|黑灯瞎火[hei1 deng1 xia1 huo3]
黑燈瞎火	pitch dark
黑特	(Internet slang) (loanword) hate
黑猩猩	common chimpanzee
黑琴雞	(bird species of China) black grouse (Lyrurus tetrix)
黑產	cybercrime industry
黑痣	mole
黑瘤	melanoma
黑白	black and white; right and wrong; monochrome
黑白不分	can't tell black from white (idiom); unable to distinguish wrong from right
黑白分明	lit. black and white clearly contrasted (idiom)
黑白切	(Tw) heibaiqie, side dish of ingredients selected from a range on display, sliced up and served together on a plate (from Taiwanese 烏白切, Tai-lo pr. [oo-pe̍h-tshiat], where 烏白 means "as one pleases")
黑白林䳭	(bird species of China) Jerdon's bush chat (Saxicola jerdoni)
黑白無常	(Chinese folk religion) Heibai Wuchang: two deities, one dressed in black and the other in white, responsible for escorting the spirits of the dead to the underworld
黑白電視	black and white TV
黑百靈	(bird species of China) black lark (Melanocorypha yeltoniensis)
黑皮諾	Pinot noir (grape type)
黑盒	black box; fig. system whose internal structure is unknown
黑眉擬啄木鳥	(bird species of China) Chinese barbet (Psilopogon faber)
黑眉柳鶯	(bird species of China) sulphur-breasted warbler (Phylloscopus ricketti)
黑眉葦鶯	(bird species of China) black-browed reed warbler (Acrocephalus bistrigiceps)
黑眉蝮蛇	Snake island viper (Gloydius shedaoensis), feeding on migrating birds
黑眉長尾山雀	(bird species of China) black-browed bushtit (Aegithalos bonvaloti)
黑眉雀鶥	(bird species of China) Huet's fulvetta (Alcippe hueti)
黑眉鴉雀	(bird species of China) pale-billed parrotbill (Suthora atrosuperciliaris)
黑眼圈	dark circles (under one's eyes); black eye
黑眼珠	pupil of the eye
黑瞎子	black bear
黑瞎子島	Bolshoi Ussuriisk Island in the Heilongjiang or Amur river, at mouth of the Ussuri River opposite Khabarovsk
黑短腳鵯	(bird species of China) black bulbul (Hypsipetes leucocephalus)
黑矮星	black dwarf star
黑碳	(climatology) black carbon (BC) (light-absorbing carbonaceous particulate matter formed by the incomplete combustion of fossil fuels, biofuels, biomass etc)
黑磚窯	lit. black brick kiln
黑社會	criminal underworld; organized crime syndicate
黑科技	(slang) futuristic technology; cutting-edge technology
黑管	clarinet
黑箱	black box; flight recorder; opaque system (computing)
黑箱子	black box (aviation), (systems theory)
黑籍冤魂	Victims of Opium, novel by Peng Yangou 彭養鷗|彭养鸥[Peng2 Yang3 ou1], published in 1909
黑粉	(slang) anti-fan
黑糊糊	black; dark; dusky
黑糖	unrefined sugar; brown sugar
黑紗	black armband
黑素	melanin; black pigment
黑素瘤	melanoma
黑絲	black pantyhose; black stockings
黑線鱈	haddock
黑翅燕鴴	(bird species of China) black-winged pratincole (Glareola nordmanni)
黑翅長腳鷸	(bird species of China) black-winged stilt (Himantopus himantopus)
黑翅雀鵯	(bird species of China) common iora (Aegithina tiphia)
黑翅鳶	(bird species of China) black-winged kite (Elanus caeruleus)
黑肺病	black lung disease; coal workers' pneumoconiosis
黑背	German shepherd
黑背信天翁	(bird species of China) Laysan albatross (Phoebastria immutabilis)
黑背燕尾	(bird species of China) black-backed forktail (Enicurus immaculatus)
黑胡椒	black pepper
黑胸太陽鳥	(bird species of China) black-throated sunbird (Aethopyga saturata)
黑胸山鷦鶯	(bird species of China) black-throated prinia (Prinia atrogularis)
黑胸歌鴝	(bird species of China) Himalayan rubythroat (Calliope pectoralis)
黑胸鶇	(bird species of China) black-breasted thrush (Turdus dissimilis)
黑胸麻雀	(bird species of China) Spanish sparrow (Passer hispaniolensis)
黑腰濱鷸	(bird species of China) Baird's sandpiper (Calidris bairdii)
黑腳信天翁	(bird species of China) black-footed albatross (Phoebastria nigripes)
黑腹沙雞	(bird species of China) black-bellied sandgrouse (Pterocles orientalis)
黑腹濱鷸	(bird species of China) dunlin (Calidris alpina)
黑腹燕鷗	(bird species of China) black-bellied tern (Sterna acuticauda)
黑腹蛇鵜	(bird species of China) oriental darter (Anhinga melanogaster)
黑膠	vinyl
黑膠唱片	vinyl record
黑臉	stern or displeased expression; to show such an expression
黑臉噪鶥	(bird species of China) masked laughingthrush (Pterorhinus perspicillatus)
黑臉琵鷺	(bird species of China) black-faced spoonbill (Platalea minor)
黑臉鶲鶯	(bird species of China) black-faced warbler (Abroscopus schisticeps)
黑色	black
黑色幽默	black humor
黑色星期五	Black Friday
黑色素	black pigment; melanin
黑色素瘤	melanoma
黑色金屬	ferrous metals (i.e. iron, chromium, manganese and alloys containing them)
黑茶	dark tea, a variety of fermented tea (e.g. Pu'er tea 普洱茶[Pu3 er3 cha2])
黑茶藨子	blackcurrant; cassis
黑莓	blackberry (Rubus fruticosus)
黑落德	Herod (biblical King)
黑虎拳	Hei Hu Quan - "Black Tiger Fist" - Martial Art
黑話	argot; bandits' secret jargon; malicious words
黑貂	sable (Martes zibellina)
黑車	unlicensed or unofficial taxi; unlicensed motor vehicle
黑輪	oden, Japanese dish made with boiled eggs, processed fish cakes, daikon radish, tofu etc in a kelp-based broth
黑道	dark road; unlawful activities (contrasted with 白道[bai2 dao4])
黑道家族	The Sopranos (US TV series)
黑醋栗	blackcurrant
黑錢	dirty money
黑長尾雉	(bird species of China) mikado pheasant (Syrmaticus mikado)
黑陶	black eggshell pottery (of the Neolithic Longshan culture)
黑雁	(bird species of China) brant (Branta bernicla)
黑雨	(HK) torrential rain ≥ 70 mm per hour (highest level in the rainstorm warning system)
黑頂噪鶥	(bird species of China) black-faced laughingthrush (Trochalopteron affine)
黑頂奇鶥	(bird species of China) rufous sibia (Heterophasia capistrata)
黑頂蛙口鴟	(bird species of China) Hodgson's frogmouth (Batrachostomus hodgsoni)
黑頂麻雀	(bird species of China) saxaul sparrow (Passer ammodendri)
黑領噪鶥	(bird species of China) greater necklaced laughingthrush (Pterorhinus pectoralis)
黑領椋鳥	(bird species of China) black-collared starling (Gracupica nigricollis)
黑頦果鳩	(bird species of China) black-chinned fruit dove (Ptilinopus leclancheri)
黑頦穗鶥	(bird species of China) black-chinned babbler (Cyanoderma pyrrhops)
黑頭噪鴉	(bird species of China) Sichuan jay (Perisoreus internigrans)
黑頭奇鶥	(bird species of China) black-headed sibia (Heterophasia desgodinsi)
黑頭文鳥	(bird species of China) chestnut munia (Lonchura atricapilla)
黑頭白䴉	(bird species of China) black-headed ibis (Threskiornis melanocephalus)
黑頭穗鶥	(bird species of China) grey-throated babbler (Stachyris nigriceps)
黑頭蠟嘴雀	(bird species of China) Japanese grosbeak (Eophona personata)
黑頭角雉	(bird species of China) western tragopan (Tragopan melanocephalus)
黑頭金翅雀	(bird species of China) black-headed greenfinch (Chloris ambigua)
黑頭鳾	(bird species of China) Chinese nuthatch (Sitta villosa)
黑頭鵐	(bird species of China) black-headed bunting (Emberiza melanocephala)
黑頭鵯	(bird species of China) black-headed bulbul (Brachypodius melanocephalos)
黑頭黃鸝	(bird species of China) black-hooded oriole (Oriolus xanthornus)
黑頸長尾雉	(bird species of China) Mrs. Hume's pheasant (Syrmaticus humiae)
黑頸鶇	(bird species of China) black-throated thrush (Turdus atrogularis)
黑頸鶴	(bird species of China) black-necked crane (Grus nigricollis)
黑頸鷿鷈	(bird species of China) black-necked grebe (Podiceps nigricollis)
黑頸鸕鶿	(bird species of China) little cormorant (Microcarbo niger)
黑額伯勞	(bird species of China) lesser grey shrike (Lanius minor)
黑額山噪鶥	(bird species of China) snowy-cheeked laughingthrush (Ianthocincla sukatschewi)
黑額樹鵲	(bird species of China) collared treepie (Dendrocitta frontalis)
黑額鳳鶥	(bird species of China) black-chinned yuhina (Yuhina nigrimenta)
黑飛	to fly illegally (of planes, drones etc)
黑馬	dark horse; fig. unexpected winner
黑體	sans-serif typeface (for Chinese characters); (physics) black body
黑體字	bold characters; bold font
黑體輻射	black body radiation (in thermodynamics)
黑髮	black hair
黑鬼	black devil (derogatory term for black or African person)
黑魆魆	dim; dark; murky; black
黑魖魖	pitch-black; dark
黑魚	northern snakehead (Channa argus)
黑鯇	black carp (Mylopharyngodon piceus)
黑鰻	short-finned eel (Anguilla australis)
黑鳶	(bird species of China) black kite (Milvus migrans)
黑鳽	(bird species of China) black bittern (Ixobrychus flavicollis)
黑鷳	(bird species of China) kalij pheasant (Lophura leucomelanos)
黑鷹	Black Hawk (helicoper)
黑鸛	(bird species of China) black stork (Ciconia nigra)
黑麥	rye (Secale cereale)
黑黢黢	pitch-black; pitch-dark
黑齷	unclean; filthy
黑龍江	Heilong River or Amur River, forming the border between northeast China and Russia
黑龍江河	Heilongjiang River
黑龍江省	Heilongjiang Province, capital Harbin 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4] (short name 黑[Hei1])
黓	black
黔	short name for Guizhou 貴州|贵州[Gui4 zhou1]
黔南布依族苗族自治州	Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture, in Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
黔東南苗族侗族自治州	Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture, in Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
黔江區	Qianjiang, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
黔西南布依族苗族自治州	Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture, in Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
黔西市	Qianxi, a county-level city in Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
黔首	(archaic) the common people
黔驢技窮	to exhaust one's limited abilities (idiom)
黕	red
黗	yellowish-black
默	silent; to write from memory
默不作聲	to keep silent
默克爾	Angela Merkel (1954-), German CDU politician, chancellor from 2005
默劇	pantomime; mime show
默哀	to observe a moment of silence in tribute
默嘆	to admire inwardly
默坐	to sit silently
默多克	Murdoch (name); Rupert Murdoch (1931-), media magnate
默契	tacit understanding; unwritten agreement; rapport
默字	to write from memory
默寫	to write from memory
默念	to read silently; to mouth (the words of a prayer etc)
默想	silent contemplation; to meditate; to think in silence
默拉皮	Merapi (volcano on Java)
默書	to write from memory
默然	silent; speechless
默片	silent movie
默示	to hint; to imply; implied
默禱	silent prayer; pray in silence
默算	mental arithmetic; to figure out
默西亞	the Messiah
默西河	Mersey River, through Liverpool
默記	to learn by heart; to commit to memory; to remember
默許	to accept tacitly; acquiescence
默誌	(literary) to make a mental note; to memorize
默認	to agree tacitly; tacit approval; default (setting)
默誦	to recite silently; to chant silently
默讀	to read in silence
默默	in silence; not speaking
默默無聞	(idiom) unknown; unrenowned
黛	(literary) dark pigment traditionally used to paint the eyebrows
黛安娜	Diana (goddess in Roman mythology)
黛綺莉	(loanword) daiquiri
黜	to dismiss from office; to expel
黜退	to demote; to dismiss
黝	black; dark green
黝暗	murk; murkiness
黝黑	dark; black; suntanned
點	to touch briefly; to tap; to mark with a dot; to check off (on a list)
點乘	(math.) dot product (of two vectors)
點交	to hand over (bought goods etc)
點亮	to illuminate; to turn on the lights; to light (a blaze)
點兒背	(dialect) to be out of luck
點兵	to muster troops; (fig.) to gather forces
點出	to point out; to indicate
點到即止	to touch on sth and leave it there; to take care not to overdo sth
點化	magic transformation performed by Daoist immortal; fig. to reveal
點卯	morning roll call
點厾	to touch up a painting
點名	roll call; to mention sb by name
點名冊	register of names; attendance roll book
點名羞辱	to attack publicly; to stage a denunciation campaign
點單	to place an order; to order
點大	(of a child etc) small as a mite; minuscule
點子	spot; point; dot
點子扎手	(coll.) one's adversary is very tough
點子背	(coll.) to have a stroke of bad luck
點字	braille
點字機	braille typewriter
點射	to fire in bursts; shooting intermittently
點將	to appoint a general (in theater); fig. to appoint sb for a task
點對點	p2p (peer-to-peer)
點對點加密	(Tw) end-to-end encryption
點心	light refreshments; pastry; dim sum (in Cantonese cooking)
點按	(computing) to tap (on a touchscreen); to click (with a mouse)
點撥	to give instructions; to give advice
點播	webcast; to request item for broadcast on radio program
點擊	to hit; to press; to strike (on the keyboard)
點擊付費廣告	pay-per-click advertising
點擊數	number of clicks; number of hits (on a website)
點擊率	click-through rate (CTR) (Internet)
點收	to check sth and accept it
點數	to count and check; to tally
點斑林鴿	(bird species of China) speckled wood pigeon (Columba hodgsonii)
點斷式	designed to be torn off along a line of perforations
點明	to point out
點映	(film) preview screening
點染	to touch up (a piece of writing); to add details (to a painting)
點查	to inspect
點檢	to inspect one by one; to list individually
點歌	to request a song to be played; to pick a karaoke song
點水	to skim
點水不漏	not one drop of water leaks (idiom); fig. thoughtful and completely rigorous
點津	to solve a problem; to answer a question; (Internet) Q&A forum
點滴	a drip; a little bit; intravenous drip (used to administer drugs)
點滴試驗	spot check
點火	to ignite; to light a fire; to agitate
點火開關	ignition switch
點焊	spot welding
點煙	to light a cigarette
點煙器	cigarette lighter (in a car); 12-volt cigarette lighter receptacle
點燃	to ignite; to set on fire; aflame
點燈	to light a lamp
點球	penalty kick
點畫	strokes of a Chinese character
點痣	(medicine) to remove a mole (usu. by laser treatment)
點發	to fire in bursts; shooting intermittently
點睛	to add the finishing touch (abbr. for 畫龍點睛|画龙点睛[hua4 long2 dian3 jing1])
點睛之筆	the brush stroke that dots in the eyes (idiom); fig. to add the vital finishing touch
點石成金	to touch base matter and turn it to gold (idiom); fig. to turn crude writing into a literary gem
點破	to lay bare in a few words; to expose with a word
點票	to count votes
點積	dot product (math.)
點穴	to hit a pressure point (martial arts); dim mak
點穿	to lay bare in a few words; to expose with a word
點竄	to reword; to edit a text
點綴	to decorate; to adorn; sprinkled
點背	(dialect) to be out of luck
點胸鴉雀	(bird species of China) spot-breasted parrotbill (Paradoxornis guttaticollis)
點脈	to hit a pressure point (martial arts); dim mak
點菜	to order dishes (in a restaurant)
點著	to light (a candle, cigarette etc)
點號	punctuation mark
點補	to have a snack; to have a bite
點見	to check an amount
點視	to check (items); to count and verify
點視廳	hall where convicts are counted and verified
點觸	to tap; to touch (a touchscreen)
點評	to comment; a point by point commentary
點貨	to do an inventory count
點贊	to like; to upvote (on social media)
點踩	to dislike; to downvote (on social media)
點軍區	Dianjun, a district of Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
點選	to select; (computing) to click on (one of several options)
點醒	to point out; to draw sb's attention to sth
點金成鐵	to transform gold into base metal (idiom); fig. to edit sb else's beautiful prose and ruin it
點金石	philosopher's stone
點金術	Midas touch; golden touch
點鐘	(indicating time of day) o'clock
點鐵成金	to touch base matter and turn it to gold (idiom); fig. to turn crude writing into a literary gem
點開	(computing) to open (a link, file etc) by clicking or tapping
點閱率	click-through rate (for websites or online advertisements)
點陣	lattice; dot matrix; bitmap
點陣字體	bitmap font (computer)
點陣式打印機	(computing) dot matrix printer
點陣打印機	(computing) dot matrix printer
點集合	(math.) point set
點頭	to nod
點頭之交	nodding acquaintance
點頭咂嘴	to approve by nodding one's head and smacking one's lips (idiom)
點頭哈腰	to nod one's head and bow (idiom); bowing and scraping
點頭招呼	beckon
點題	to bring out the main theme; to make the point
點餐	(at a restaurant) to order a meal; (of a waiter) to take an order
點鬼火	to stir up trouble in secret; to instigate
點點	Diandian (Chinese microblogging and social networking website)
點點滴滴	bit by bit; dribs and drabs; the little details
黟	black and shining ebony
黟縣	Yi County or Yixian, a county in Huangshan City 黃山市|黄山市[Huang2 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
黠	(phonetic); crafty
黢	black; dark
黢黑	pitch-black; pitch-dark
黥	to tattoo criminals on the face or forehead
黥面	to tattoo the face (punishment in ancient times)
黦	yellowish black
黧	dark; sallow color
黧黑	(literary) dark
黨	party; association; club
黨中央	Central Committee of the CCP
黨主席	party chief
黨人	party member; partisan
黨代會	party congress (of the Communist Party of China)
黨內	within the party (esp. Chinese communist party)
黨八股	drab, stereotypical Communist Party writing style
黨務	party affairs; work within the Communist party
黨參	poor man's ginseng (Codonopsis pilosula)
黨史	history of the Party
黨同伐異	to be narrowly partisan
黨員	party member
黨團	party caucus
黨外人士	non-party members
黨委	Party committee
黨徒	clique member; henchman; gang member
黨徽	political party emblem
黨性	the spirit or character of a political party
黨政	Party and government administration
黨政機關	(Communist) Party and government organizations
黨校	(political) party school
黨派	political party; faction
黨派集會	party meeting
黨爭	factional strife; partisan infighting
黨票	party membership; membership card
黨章	party constitution
黨籍	party membership
黨組	party leadership group
黨綱	(political) party platform; party program
黨羽	henchmen
黨費	party membership dues
黨鞭	(politics) whip
黨項	Tangut branch of the Qiang 羌 ethnic group
黨項族	Tangut branch of the Qiang 羌 ethnic group
黨首	party leader
黨魁	party boss
黨齡	party standing; age of service to the Party
黮	black, dark; unclear; private
黯	(bound form) dark; dull (color); dim; gloomy
黯然	dim; sad
黯然失色	to lose one's splendor; to lose luster; to be eclipsed
黯然神傷	(idiom) depressed; dispirited
黯然銷魂	overwhelming sadness (idiom); sorrow at parting
黰	bushy black hair
黲	dark; dim; gloomy
黴漿菌肺炎	mycoplasma pneumonia
黴素	(pharmacology) -mycin (suffix)
黶	black spots on body
黷	blacken; constantly; to insult
黷武	militaristic; to use military force indiscriminately
黹	embroidery
黻	(archaic) embroidery using black and blue thread
黼	(archaic) motif of axes with black handles and white heads, a symbol of authority embroidered on ceremonial robes
黽	to strive
黿	sea turtle
黿魚	soft-shelled turtle; also termed 鱉|鳖[bie1]
鼂	surname Chao
鼉龍	Chinese alligator (Alligator sinensis)
鼎	ancient cooking cauldron with two looped handles and three or four legs
鼎力	(honorific) your kind efforts; thanks to your help
鼎力相助	We are most grateful for your valuable assistance.
鼎助	(honorific) your inestimable assistance; thanks to your help
鼎城區	Dingcheng, a district of Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
鼎峙	(literary) to form a tripartite confrontation
鼎新	to innovate
鼎族	rich patriarchal family; aristocracy
鼎沸	a confused noise; a racket
鼎泰豐	Din Tai Fung, restaurant specializing in dumplings, with stores in many countries
鼎湖區	Dinghu, a district of Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
鼎盛	thriving; flourishing
鼎盛時期	flourishing period; golden age
鼎盛期	golden age; heyday; period of peak prosperity
鼎立	lit. to stand like the three legs of a tripod
鼎足	lit. the three legs of a tripod; fig. three competing rivals
鼎足之勢	competition between three rivals; tripartite confrontation
鼎鐺玉石	lit. to use a sacred tripod as cooking pot and jade as ordinary stone (idiom); fig. a waste of precious material
鼎革	change of dynasties; clear out the old, bring in the new
鼎食	extravagant food
鼎鼎	great; very important
鼎鼎大名	famous; celebrated
鼏	cover of tripod kettle
鼐	incense tripod
鼒	tripod with a small opening on top
鼓	drum; to drum; to strike
鼓動	to urge (an activity that may be beneficial, harmful or neutral); to encourage; to agitate; to instigate; to incite
鼓勵	to encourage
鼓包	to bulge; to swell; a bulge; a swelling
鼓吹	to agitate for; to enthusiastically promote
鼓吹者	advocate
鼓噪	(in ancient times) to beat the drums and yell (at the moment of launching into battle)
鼓室	tympanic cavity (of the middle ear)
鼓山	Gushan or Kushan district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
鼓山區	Gushan or Kushan district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
鼓手	drummer
鼓打貝斯	drum and bass (music genre)
鼓掌	to applaud; to clap
鼓搗	to tinker with; to incite
鼓板	clapper-board
鼓樓	a drum tower; Drum Tower, historic attraction in Xian, Beijing etc
鼓樓區	Gulou, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
鼓氣	to puff up; to swell up; to inflate
鼓浪嶼	Gulangyu, scenic island off Xiamen 廈門|厦门[Xia4 men2]
鼓盆	lit. to drum on a bowl
鼓盆之戚	drumming on a bowl in grief (idiom, refers to Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3] grieving for his lost wife)
鼓眼睛	protruding eyes
鼓篋	beginning-school ceremony (old usage); classical learning
鼓聲	sound of a drum; drumbeat
鼓脹	to swell; tympanites
鼓膜	eardrum; tympanic membrane
鼓舌	to wag one's tongue; to speak glibly
鼓舞	to inspire; to encourage; to hearten; to boost (morale)
鼓起	to summon one's (courage, faith etc); to puff up (one's cheeks etc)
鼓起勇氣	to summon one's courage
鼓足勇氣	to summon one's courage
鼓風	a forced draft (of wind, for smelting metal); blast (in blast furnace)
鼓風機	bellows; ventilator; air blower
鼓風爐	a blast furnace (in modern times)
鼓點	drumbeat; drum rhythm; drumming pattern
鼓點子	drumbeat; drum rhythm; drumming pattern
鼓鼓囊囊	(idiom) (of a pocket, pouch etc) full and bulging
鼓鼓的	bulging
鼕	(onom.) beating a drum; rat-a-tat
鼖	large brass drum
鼙	drum carried on horseback
鼚	sound of drum
鼛	large drum
鼟	(onom.) the thump of a big drum
鼠	(bound form) rat; mouse
鼠型斑疹傷寒	murine typhus
鼠婦	woodlouse; pill bug
鼠尾草	sage (Salvia officinalis)
鼠年	Year of the Rat (e.g. 2008)
鼠得克	difenacoum (anticoagulant and rodenticide)
鼠患	rat infestation
鼠標	(computing) mouse
鼠標器	mouse (computer)
鼠標墊	mouse pad
鼠海豚	porpoise
鼠疫	plague
鼠疫桿菌	Yersinia pestis; the bubonic plage bacillus
鼠目寸光	short-sighted
鼠竄	to scamper off; to scurry off like a frightened rat
鼠肚雞腸	small-minded
鼠膽	cowardly
鼠藥	rat poison
鼠蚤型斑疹傷寒	murine typhus fever
鼠蛛	mouse spider (genus Missulena)
鼠蹊	groin
鼠輩	a scoundrel; a bad chap
鼢	used in 鼢鼠[fen2 shu3]
鼢鼠	(zoology) zokor, a burrowing rodent (Myospalax spp.)
鼩	used in 鼩鼱[qu2 jing1]
鼩鼱	shrew (zoology)
鼪	stoat; weasel
鼫	long-tailed marmot
鼬	(zoology) weasel
鼬屬	Mustela (genus of weasels etc)
鼬獾	ferret badger
鼬科	Mustelidae (taxonomic family of weasel, otter, mink)
鼬鯊	tiger shark
鼬鼠	weasel
鼭	a kind of rat
鼯	flying squirrel
鼯鼠	flying squirrel
鼱	used in 鼩鼱[qu2 jing1]
鼴	mole
鼴鼠	mole (zoology)
鼴鼠皮	moleskin
鼷	used in 鼷鼠[xi1 shu3]
鼷鼠	house mouse
鼻	nose
鼻中隔	nasal septum
鼻兒	eye; a hole in an implement or utensil for insertion
鼻出血	nosebleed
鼻咽	nose and throat
鼻咽癌	nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC)
鼻唇溝	nasolabial fold; smile lines; laugh lines
鼻垢	dried nasal mucus; booger
鼻塞	to have a stuffy nose
鼻子	nose
鼻孔	nostril
鼻孔朝天	(lit.) to have one's nose in the air (idiom); (fig.) arrogant; haughty
鼻尖	tip of the nose
鼻屎	booger; dried nasal mucus
鼻息	breath
鼻息肉	nasal polyp
鼻托	nose pad (on eyeglasses)
鼻旁竇	paranasal sinus
鼻梁	bridge of the nose
鼻毛	nose hair
鼻水	nasal mucus; snivel
鼻涕	nasal mucus; snivel; snot
鼻涕蟲	a slug; sb with a runny nose
鼻淵	nasosinusitis
鼻炎	rhinitis
鼻煙	snuff (powdered tobacco for sniffing)
鼻煙壺	snuff bottle
鼻煙盒	snuffbox
鼻牛兒	hardened mucus in nostrils
鼻環	nose ring
鼻甲骨	turbinate; nasal concha
鼻疽	glanders
鼻病毒	rhinovirus (common cold virus)
鼻祖	the earliest ancestor
鼻竇	paranasal sinus
鼻竇炎	sinusitis
鼻簫	nose flute
鼻翼	the wing of the nose; ala nasi
鼻腔	nasal cavity
鼻酸	to have a tingling sensation in one's nose (due to grief, pungent odor or taste)
鼻釘	nose stud; nose piercing
鼻針療法	nose-acupuncture therapy
鼻青眼腫	a black eye (idiom); serious injury to the face; fig. a setback
鼻青臉腫	a bloody nose and a swollen face; badly battered
鼻音	nasal sound
鼻韻母	(of Chinese pronunciation) a vowel followed by a nasal consonant
鼻頭	tip of the nose; (dialect) nose
鼻飼	nasal feeding
鼻飼法	nasal feeding
鼻骨	nasal bone
鼻黏膜	nasal mucous membrane
鼽	congested nose
鼾	snore; to snore
鼾聲	sound of snoring
鼾聲如雷	thunderous snoring
鼾鼾	to snore
齁	to snore; thirsty from excessively salty or sweet food; (dialect) very
齁甜	(dialect) (of food) excessively sweet; cloying
齁鹹	(dialect) (of food) excessively salty
齆	stuffy (nose); nasal (voice)
齇	rosacea
齈	cold in the head catarrh of the nose
齉	stuffy (nose); nasal (voice)
齊	(name of states and dynasties at several different periods)
齊B小短裙	(slang) micro-miniskirt
齊B短裙	(slang) micro-miniskirt
齊一	uniform
齊人之福	lit. the happy fate of the man from Qi (who had a wife and a concubine) (idiom)
齊備	all ready; available; complete
齊內丁·齊達內	Zinedine Zidane (Zizou), a past French soccer player
齊全	complete; comprehensive
齊刷刷	even; uniform
齊名	equally famous
齊唱	to sing in unison
齊國	Qi state of Western Zhou and the Warring states (1122-265 BC), centered in Shandong
齊大非偶	too rich to be a good match (in marriage) (idiom)
齊天大聖	Great Sage the Equal of Heaven, self-proclaimed title of the Monkey King Sun Wukong 孫悟空|孙悟空[Sun1 Wu4 kong1] in the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]
齊宣王	King Xuan of Qi (reigned 342-324 BC)
齊家	to govern one's family; to manage one's household
齊家文化	Qijia neolithic culture, centered around the Gansu Corridor 河西走廊[He2 xi1 Zou3 lang2] c. 2000 BC
齊家治國	to regulate the family and rule the state (idiom)
齊射	volley (of gunfire)
齊心	to be of one mind; to work as one
齊心協力	to work with a common purpose (idiom); to make concerted efforts
齊心合力	to work as one (idiom); united in a concerted effort
齊性	(math.) homogeneity; homogeneous
齊打夯兒地	in unison and with one voice (dialect)
齊放	broadside; simultaneous fired cannonade
齊書	History of Qi of the Southern Dynasties, seventh of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled by Xiao Zixian 蕭子顯|萧子显[Xiao1 Zi3 xian3] in 537 during Liang of the Southern Dynasties 南朝梁[Nan2 chao2 Liang2], 59 scrolls
齊柏林	Zeppelin (name)
齊柏林飛艇	Zeppelin dirigible airship
齊根	at the base; at the root; (of a leg) just below the crutch
齊格菲防線	Siegfried Line, line of German military defenses during WWI and WWII
齊桓公	Duke Huan of Qi (reigned 685-643 BC), one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸
齊次	homogeneous (math.)
齊步	to match (sb's) stride
齊武成	Emperor Wucheng of Qi, personal name 高湛[Gao1 Dan1] (537-568), reigned 561-565
齊民要術	Essential skill to benefit the people, sixth century encyclopedia of agricultural knowledge by Jia Sixie 賈思勰|贾思勰[Jia3 Si1 xie2]
齊河縣	Qihe, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
齊活	(Beijing dialect) done; finished; complete
齊湣王	King Min of Qi (reigned 323-284 BC)
齊白石	Qi Baishi (1864-1957), famous Chinese painter
齊眉	mutual respect in marriage; abbr. of idiom 舉案齊眉|举案齐眉[ju3 an4 qi2 mei2]
齊眉穗兒	bangs (hair)
齊納二極管	Zener diode
齊聚	to gather in one place
齊聚一堂	to get together all at once
齊聲	all speaking together; in chorus
齊肩	level with one's shoulders; (of two people) both the same height
齊膝	level with one's knees; knee-length (skirt etc); knee-deep (mud etc)
齊集	to gather together; to assemble (in one place)
齊頭	at the same time; simultaneously
齊頭並進	to go forward together (idiom); to undertake simultaneous tasks
齊頭式	treating everyone the same, regardless of individual differences
齊魯	alternative name for Shandong 山東|山东[Shan1 dong1]
齊齊哈爾市	Qiqihar, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
齋	to fast or abstain from meat, wine etc; vegetarian diet; study room
齋堂	dining hall in a Buddhist temple
齋戒	to observe a religious fast; to abstain from food or certain activities before a ritual
齋戒節	festival of fasting (esp. Eid al-Fitr)
齋教	Zhaijiao sect of Buddhism
齋月	Ramadan (Islam)
齋期	fasting days; a fast
齋果	(religious) offerings
齋祭	to offer sacrifices (to gods or ancestors) whilst abstaining from meat, wine etc
齋藤	Saitō (Japanese surname)
齋飯	food given to Buddhist monks as alms
齌	used in 齌怒[ji4 nu4]
齎	(literary) to harbor (a feeling); (literary) to present as a gift
齎恨	to have a gnawing regret
齏	finely chopped meat or vegetables; powdered or fragmentary
齏粉	fine powder; broken pieces
齒	(bound form) tooth; (bound form) to regard as worthy of mention
齒冠	crown of a tooth
齒冷	to sneer
齒列矯正	orthodontic treatment; orthodontics
齒及	to mention; referring to
齒孔	perforations (on a postage stamp)
齒更	dental transition (from milk teeth to adult teeth)
齒根	root of a tooth
齒條	rack (and pinion)
齒條千斤頂	rack and pinion jack
齒蠹	(archaic) tooth decay
齒輪	(machine) gear; pinion (gear wheel)
齒輪傳動	gear drive
齒輪箱	gearbox
齒輪齒條	(mechanical engineering) rack and pinion
齒音	dental consonant
齒頰生香	lit. to feel the taste in one's mouth (idiom)
齒顎矯正學	(Tw) orthodontics
齒鯨	toothed whales; Odontoceti
齒齦	gum; gingiva
齒齦炎	gingivitis
齒齦音	alveolar, apical, or supradental sound (linguistics)
齒齲	tooth decay; caries
齔	to replace the milk teeth
齕	(literary) to gnaw; to bite
齙	(of a bucktooth) to protrude; to stick out
齙牙	bucktooth
齜	to bare (one's teeth)
齜牙	to bare one's teeth
齜牙咧嘴	(idiom) to make a pained or menacing facial expression; to grimace; to snarl
齞	to display the teeth
齟	used in 齟齬|龃龉[ju3 yu3]
齟齬	(literary) (of teeth) to be misaligned; (fig.) in disagreement; at odds
齠	shed the milk teeth; young
齡	age; length of experience, membership etc
齦	gums (of the teeth)
齦擦音	alveolar fricative (linguistics)
齦炎	gingivitis
齦病	gingival disease
齦膿腫	gumboil
齦音	alveolar sound (linguistics)
齦顎音	prepalatal sound (linguistics)
齦齶音	alveo-palatal sound (linguistics)
齧	surname Nie
齧咬	to gnaw
齪	used in 齷齪|龌龊[wo4 chuo4]
齬	used in 齟齬|龃龉[ju3 yu3]
齮	(literary) to bite
齯	teeth grown in old age
齰	to bite
齱	used in 齱齵|𱌶𱌹[zou1 yu2]
齱齵	(archaic) uneven teeth; buckteeth
齲	decayed teeth; dental caries
齲洞	hole due to dental caries
齲齒	tooth decay; dental caries; decayed tooth; rotten tooth
齲齒性	caries-inducing
齵	used in 齱齵|𱌶𱌹[zou1 yu2]
齶	palate; roof of the mouth
齶裂	cleft palate
齷	dirty; small-minded
齷濁	filthy; nasty; sordid
齷齪	dirty; filthy; vile; despicable; (literary) narrow-minded; petty
齾	dented; chipped; gap-toothed
龍	Chinese dragon; loong; (fig.) emperor; dragon
龍井	Longjing tea (abbr. for 龍井茶|龙井茶[long2 jing3 cha2])
龍井區	Longjing, a district of Taichung 臺中市|台中市[Tai2 zhong1 Shi4], Taiwan
龍井市	Longjing, a county-level city in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
龍井茶	Longjing tea, aka Dragon Well tea, a high-quality pan-roasted green tea from the area of Longjing Village in Hangzhou, Zhejiang
龍亭區	Longting, a district of Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
龍人	Dragon Man, the nickname of the individual whose fossilized cranium was discovered in Heilongjiang in 1933, thought to be a Denisovan 丹尼索瓦人[Dan1 ni2 suo3 wa3 ren2] or a new species of extinct human, Homo longi
龍利	sole; right-eyed flounder; flatfish
龍利葉	Sauropus spatulifolius Beille (shrub of the Euphorbiaceae family)
龍勝各族自治縣	Longsheng Various Nationalities Autonomous County, in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
龍南市	Longnan, a county-level city in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
龍口奪食	to harvest hurriedly before rain comes
龍口市	Longkou, a county-level city in Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
龍君	the Dragon King of the Eastern Sea (mythology)
龍圩區	Longxu, a district of Wuzhou City 梧州市[Wu2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
龍城區	Longcheng, a district of Chaoyang City 朝陽市|朝阳市[Chao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
龍套	costume of minor characters in opera, featuring dragon designs
龍妹	ugly girl (slang) (Tw)
龍子湖區	Longzihu, a district of Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
龍安區	Long'an, a district of Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
龍安寺	Ryōanji, temple in northwest Kyōto 京都, Japan with famous rock garden
龍宮	palace of the Dragon King at the bottom of the Eastern Sea
龍宮貝	Rumphius's slit shell (Entemnotrochus rumphii), found in Japan and Taiwan
龍山區	Longshan, a district of Liaoyuan City 遼源市|辽源市[Liao2 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
龍山文化	Longshan culture; black pottery culture
龍山縣	Longshan, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
龍崎	Longci, a district in Tainan 台南|台南[Tai2 nan2], Taiwan
龍崗區	Longgang, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
龍巖市	Longyan, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
龍川縣	Longchuan, a county in Heyuan City 河源市[He2 yuan2 Shi4], Guangdong
龍州縣	Longzhou, a county in Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
龍巾	imperial towel
龍年	Year of the Dragon (e.g. 2000, 2012, etc)
龍床	the Emperor's bed
龍庭	imperial court
龍形拳	Long Xing Quan - "Dragon Fist" - Martial Art
龍抬頭	the second day of the second lunar month, traditionally observed as the Longtaitou Festival
龍捲	tornado; waterspout; twister
龍捲風	tornado; hurricane; twister
龍文區	Longwen, a district of Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
龍椅	the Dragon Throne; the imperial throne
龍標	(PRC) film screening permit
龍樹	Nāgārjuna (c. 150-250 AD), Buddhist philosopher
龍樹菩薩	Nagarjuna (Nagarjuna Bodhisattva)
龍江縣	Longjiang, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
龍沙區	Longsha, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
龍泉劍	Longquan Sword, legendary ancient Chinese sword of extraordinary craftsmanship
龍泉市	Longquan, a county-level city in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
龍泉驛區	Longquanyi, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
龍洞	cave; natural cavern (in limestone)
龍海區	Longhai, a district of Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
龍涎香	ambergris
龍港區	Longgang, a district of Huludao City 葫蘆島市|葫芦岛市[Hu2 lu2 dao3 Shi4], Liaoning
龍港市	Longgang, a county-level city in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
龍湖區	Longhu, a district of Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
龍潭區	Longtan, a district of Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
龍潭溝	Longtan Ravine, scenic area in Xixia county 西峽縣|西峡县[Xi1 xia2 xian4], Nanyang 南陽|南阳[Nan2 yang2], Henan
龍潭虎穴	(lit.) dragon's pool and tiger's den (idiom)
龍灣區	Longwan, a district of Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
龍燈	dragon lantern
龍爭虎鬥	lit. the dragon wars, the tiger battles (idiom); fierce battle between giants
龍王	Dragon King (mythology)
龍生九子	lit. the dragon has nine sons (idiom); fig. all kinds of characters
龍生龍，鳳生鳳	lit. dragon births dragon, phoenix births phoenix (idiom)
龍的傳人	Descendants of the Dragon (i.e. Han Chinese)
龍眼	longan fruit; dragon eye fruit; Dimocarpus longan (botany)
龍種	emperor's offspring
龍紋	dragon (as a decorative design)
龍羊峽	Longyangxia canyon on the upper reaches of the Yellow River, Gonghe county 共和縣|共和县[Gong4 he2 xian4] in Hainan Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Qinghai
龍肝鳳膽	rare food; ambrosia (delicacy)
龍脈	dragon's vein, terrain that looks like a dragon
龍膽	rough gentian; Japanese gentian (Gentiana scabra)
龍膽紫	gentian violet C25H30ClN3; crystal violet
龍舌蘭	agave (genus of plants); (esp.) Agave americana
龍舌蘭酒	tequila
龍舟	dragon boat; imperial boat
龍船	dragon boat (used at 端午[Duan1 wu3], the Dragon Boat Festival)
龍芯	Loongson (a family of general-purpose CPUs developed within China)
龍華	Longhua, the name of numerous streets, railway stations, temples etc, notably Longhua Temple 龍華寺|龙华寺[Long2 hua2 Si4] in Shanghai
龍華區	Longhua, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
龍葵	black nightshade (Solanum nigrum)
龍蒿	tarragon
龍虎	outstanding people; water and fire (in Daoist writing)
龍虎鬥	fight between powerful contenders
龍蛇混雜	lit. dragons and snakes mingle (idiom)
龍蝦	lobster
龍血樹	dragon tree; Dracaena (botany)
龍袍	dragon robe; emperor's court dress
龍豆	dragon bean; long bean
龍貓	chinchilla; Totoro (anime character)
龍躉	giant grouper (various Epinephelus species)
龍車	imperial chariot
龍遊縣	Longyou, a county in Quzhou City 衢州市[Qu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
龍里縣	Longli, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
龍鍾	decrepit; senile
龍門	Dragon Gate, mythical gate at the crest of a waterfall over which a carp may leap to become a dragon; (fig.) gateway to success or greatness
龍門刨	double column surface grinding machine
龍門山	Mt Longmen, the northwest boundary of the Sichuan basin, an active geological fault line
龍門山斷層	Longmenshan fault line, a tectonically active thrust fault line at the northwest boundary of the Sichuan basin
龍門架	gantry
龍門石窟	Longmen Grottoes at Luoyang 洛陽|洛阳[Luo4 yang2], Henan
龍門縣	Longmen, a county in Huizhou City 惠州市[Hui4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
龍陵縣	Longling, a county in Baoshan City 保山市[Bao3 shan1 Shi4], Yunnan
龍陽	place in Shanghai; (coll.) male homosexual
龍陽君	homosexual (positive term)
龍韜	military strategy and tactics; the imperial guard
龍頭	faucet; tap; bicycle handlebar; chief; boss (esp. of a gang)
龍頭企業	key enterprises; leading enterprises
龍頭老大	big boss; leader of a group; dominant (position)
龍頭股	(finance) leading stock; market leader
龍頭蛇尾	lit. dragon's head, snake's tail (idiom); fig. a strong start but weak finish
龍頭鍘	lever-style guillotine decorated with a dragon's head at the hinged end, used to behead criminals related to the emperor
龍飛	to promote (to official position in former times)
龍飛鳳舞	flamboyant or bold cursive calligraphy (idiom)
龍馬潭區	Longmatan, a district of Luzhou City 瀘州市|泸州市[Lu2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
龍馬精神	old but still full of vitality (idiom)
龍駒	fine horse; brilliant young man
龍駒鳳雛	brilliant young man; talented young scholar
龍騰虎躍	lit. dragon soaring and tiger leaping (idiom)
龍驤虎步	(idiom) powerful and imposing demeanor
龍骨	"dragon bones" (fossilized animal bones or teeth, used in TCM)
龍骨瓣	(botany) carina; keel (of a papilionaceous flower)
龍骨車	water wheel
龍體	emperor's body; emperor's physical condition
龍鬚糖	dragon's beard candy, a Chinese confection made from floured taffy pulled into flossy strands
龍鬚菜	asparagus; (Tw) young shoots of the chayote vine 佛手瓜[fo2 shou3 gua1]
龍鬚麵	dragon beard noodles; dragon whisker noodles
龍鳳	dragon and phoenix
龍鳳區	Longfeng, a district of Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
龍鳳呈祥	the dragon and phoenix are symbols of good fortune (idiom); auspicious
龍鳳胎	twins of mixed sex
龍龕手鑑	Longkan Shoujian, Chinese character dictionary from 997 AD containing 26,430 entries, with radicals placed into 240 rhyme groups and arranged according to the four tones, and the rest of the characters similarly arranged under each radical
龎	enormous
龐	(bound form) huge; (bound form) numerous and disordered
龐克	(Tw) (loanword) punk (music or subculture)
龐加萊	Henri Poincaré (1854-1912), French mathematician, physicist and philosopher
龐培	Pompeium, Roman town in Bay of Naples destroyed by eruption of Vesuvius in 79
龐大	huge; enormous; tremendous
龐巴迪	Bombardier (surname and company name)
龐德	Pang De (-219), general of Cao Wei at the start of the Three Kingdoms period, victor over Guan Yu 關羽|关羽
龐德街	Bond Street (London, England)
龐氏	Ponzi (name); Pond's (brand of skin care products), also written 旁氏
龐氏騙局	Ponzi scheme
龐涓	Pang Juan (-342 BC), military leader and political strategist of the School of Diplomacy 縱橫家|纵横家[Zong4 heng2 jia1] during the Warring States Period (425-221 BC)
龐然大物	(idiom) huge object; colossus
龐茲	Ponzi (name)
龐貝	Pompeii, ancient Roman town near Naples, Italy
龐雜	complex; complicated; many and varied
龑	(rare) character coined for use in the name of Liu Yan 劉龑|刘䶮[Liu2 Yan3] (889–942), founding emperor of Southern Han
龔	surname Gong
龔古爾	Goncourt (name)
龔自珍	Gong Zizhen (1792-1841), Chinese man of letters, calligrapher and poet
龕	(bound form) niche; shrine
龕影	(radiography) the shadow of a peptic ulcer in a barium-swallow X-ray
龖	(literary) dragons in flight
龗	dragon
龜	tortoise; turtle; (coll.) cuckold
龜兒子	(coll.) bastard; son of a bitch
龜公	pimp
龜友	turtle enthusiast
龜孫子	(coll.) son of a bitch; bastard
龜尾市	Gumi, city in North Gyeongsang Province, South Korea
龜板	tortoise plastron; turtle shell
龜殼	tortoise shell
龜殼花	Formosan pit viper (Protobothrops mucrosquamatus)
龜毛	(Tw) (coll.) indecisive; fussy; nitpicking (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [ku-moo])
龜甲	tortoise shell
龜甲寶螺	Mauritius cowry; Mauritia mauritiana
龜甲萬	Kikkoman, Japanese soy sauce and seasoning brand
龜男	(slang) man who grovels to a woman; man who accepts a subordinate or exploitative role in hopes of her approval
龜笑鱉無尾	lit. a tortoise laughing at a soft-shelled turtle for having no tail (idiom)
龜縮	to withdraw; to hole up
龜背竹	split-leaf philodendron; Monstera deliciosa
龜船	"turtle ship", armored warship used by Koreans in fighting the Japanese during the Imjin war of 1592-1598 壬辰倭亂|壬辰倭乱[ren2 chen2 wo1 luan4]
龜苓膏	turtle jelly, medicine made with powdered turtle shell and herbs
龜茲	Kucha, ancient Silk Road kingdom and Buddhist center on the northern rim of the Taklamakan Desert (Han-Tang period), in present-day Aksu, Xinjiang
龜裂	to crack; cracked; fissured
龜趺	turtle-shaped plinth of a stele
龜速	as slow as a tortoise
龜頭	head of a turtle; glans penis
龠	ancient unit of volume (half a 合[ge3], equivalent to 50ml)
龡	to blow (a flute); archaic version of 吹
龢	(literary) harmonious (variant of 和[he2])
龤	to harmonize; to accord with; to agree
鿍	hill; long and narrow highland; (used in place names)
鿫	oganesson (chemistry)
鿬	(chemistry) tennessine
𠈌	used in 人從眾𠈌|人从众𠈌[ren2 cong2 zhong4 yu2]
𠙶	(name of a mountain)
𠩺	to split open; crack
𠯪	(dialect) to eat
𠳐	(onom.) bang (door slamming shut etc)
𡳞	(Minnan dialect) male genitals; penis
𥻗	(bound form) coarsely ground maize
𥻗子	(dialect) coarsely ground maize; corn grit
𥻗粥	gruel made from ground maize; corn grit congee
𦙶	(used in place names)
𧿹	(bound form) big toe
𨧀	dubnium (chemistry)
𨨏	bohrium (chemistry)
𨭆	hassium (chemistry)
𨭎	seaborgium (chemistry)
𩵚	used in 𩵚魠魚|𬶂𱇏鱼[tu3 tuo1 yu2]
𰻞	used in 𰻞𰻞麵|𰻝𰻝面[biang2 biang2 mian4]
𰻞𰻞麵	broad, belt-shaped noodles, popular in Shaanxi
